 by leave  - I regret to have to move a motion of condolence in respect of the death of the Honorable William Henry Wilks, a former member of the House of Representatives of this Parliament.  Mr. Wilks,  who died in Melbourne on the 5th February last, was elected to the first Parliament in 1901 for the Division of Dalley in New South Wales, and was re-elected in 1903 and in1906 for that division. He was the Government Whip in 1904 and 1905, and Temporary  Chairman  of Committees in 1905-1907. He was also a member of the Royal Commission on Postal Services from 1908 to 1910, being  Chairman  of the Commission from December, 1908. Although many years have passed since the late  Mr. Wilks  was a member of the House of Representatives, it is in keeping with Parliamentary tradition that we should honour his memory and place this motion on record. 1 express to his widow and family sincere sympathy in their bereavement. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at  the  death of the Honorable William Henry Wilks, member for the division of Dalley in the House of Representatives from 1901 to 1910, places upon record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their sad bereavement. 
I second the motion. I did not have the privilege of personal acquaintance with the late  Mr. Wilks.  I agree particularly with the remarks of the Leader of the Senate that we should always pay a tribute of respect to those gentlemen who have rendered service in any way in the government of  thi3  country. 
I formally associate the Coventry party with the motion. I have a personal recollection of the late  Mr. Wilks,  who w.as to some degree identified with the district from which I come. I should not like to remain silent on this occasion when the Senate is being asked to pay tribute to the memory of the deceased gentleman. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - It is with regret that I submit a motion of condolence with respect to the death of one who was in earlier years  a  member of this chamber - former  Senator Richard  Hartley Smith Abbott, who died in- Bendigo in Victoria on the 28th February. The late gentleman was elected to the Senate by the State Parliament of Victoria on the 18th December, 1928, in the place of the late  Senator Andrew.  He retired at the expiration of his term on the 30th June, 1929. He had a lengthy parliamentary career in Victoria, and at the time of his election to the Senate was a member of the Legislative Council, of that State. He was a member of the River Murray Waters Commission. The report of this commission formed the basis of the existing agreement .relating to the locking of the Murray River for the purposes of water storage and irrigation. I extend to the members of his family sincere sympathy in their bereavement. I- move - 
That the Senate ex-presses its deep regret at the death of former  Senator Richard  Hartley Smith Abbott, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
 I second the motion. The late ex-Senator Abbott was not a member of the Senate when I was first elected to this chamber, but he had only very recently retired. He was undoubtedly a kindly gentleman. Again, I say, we are doing the right and proper thing in paying tribute to the memory of a man because of the distinguished public service which he rendered to the Commonwealth in various capacities. 
I associate the members of the Country party with the motion. I knew the late ex-Senator Abbott when he was a member of the Victorian Parliament and also when he was a leading citizen of the City of Bendigo. He did remarkably good work and leaves behind him a fine record of public service. Wo regret very much indeed the passing of a man who has done such good work as a citizen of this country. I agree with the Leader of the Senate that the late ex-Senator Abbott left a record of wonderful public service, not only as a. member of Parliament but also as a private citizen of the Commonwealth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 

 - by 
 leave-I desire to inform the Senate of the following changes which took place in the Ministry after the adjournment of Parliament in December last and prior to the recent reconstruction: - 
On the 26th January, theRight Honorable R. G. Casey, Minister for Supply and Development, resigned from the Ministry. The Honorable  Sir Frederick  Stewart was appointed Minister for Supply and Development,  vice  Mr. Casey. 
On the 23rd February, the Honorable J. N. Lawson, Minister for Trade and Customs, resigned his appointment, and theRight Honorable R. G. Menzies was appointed to that portfolio. 
 by leave  - I formally announce to the Senate that, on the 14th March, 1940, the Ministry was reconstructed and is now constituted as follows: - 
The Right Honorable Robert Gordon , Menzies, K.C., M.P. - Prime Minister, Minister for Defence Co-ordination and Minister for Information. 
The Honorable Archie Galbraith Cameron, M.P. - Minister for Commerce and Minister for the Navy. 
 by leave  - In consequence of the reconstruction of the Ministry, the following arrangements have been made for the representation of the Ministers in the Senate :  - I shall represent the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, and the Minister for Industry.  Senator Foll  will represent the Minister for the Army, the Minister for the Navy, the Minister for Defence Co-ordination, the Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation, the Minister for Supply and Development, and the Minister for Social Services.  Senator McBride  will represent the Treasurer, the Minister for Commerce, the Postmaster-General, and the Minister for Health.  Senator Collett  will represent the Minister for Repatriation, the Minister for Information, the 
Minister for External Affairs, and the Minister in charge of External Territories. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce inform the Senate on what date the Australian Wheat Board proposes to pay the next instalment on the 1939-40 wheat crop, and what amount a bushel will be paid ? 
The matters referred to by the honorable senator are now under the consideration of the Government . 
Is the Minister for the Interior in a position to state when the report being prepared on the iron pre deposits of Australia will be made available? 
I cannot answer that question at the present stage. The inspections and tests being carried out. in Western Australia are not yet completed, and, until they are, it will be impossible to obtain a full report on the matter. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state what action has been taken by the Government towards meeting the requests of Western Australian woolgrowers for the appointment of a Western Australian representative of small wool-growers to the Central Wool Committee ? 
That matter has received attention by the Government on several occasions. I can assure the honorable senator that full consideration has been given to the requests from 
Western Australia, but, in the circumstances, the Government is unable to accede to them. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 38, I hereby appoint the following senators to he the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications: - Senators M. Abbott, J. I. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 28a I lay on the table my warrant nominating Senators M. Abbott, S. K. Amour, W. J. Cooper, J. Cunningham and Herbert Hays, a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees, or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
I have to report that I have received a copy of the Speech with which His Excellency the GovernorGeneral was graciously pleased to open the present session of this Parliament. 
.- I move- 
That the following  Address-in-Reply  to His  Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech he agreed to: - 
To Hia  Excellency  the Governor-General - May It Please  Your  Excellency: 
Wo, thu Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire tu express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
We commence this second session of the fifteenth Parliament of the Commonwealth facing a grim struggle. We are engaged in war, not because we covet the territory of any other nation, and not because we hate the peoples of any other countries; but because Australia, as a self-governing dominion of the British Empire,  i3  standing loyally beside the Mother Country in its determination to defend democracy, to preserve liberty, to ensure freedom for our people, and to prevent world domination by the most proficient liar and cold-blooded murderer that the work) has ever seen. We want to preserve our civilization. That differences of opinion between nations have arisen, and will occur in the future, must be admitted'; but to suggest that these differences 'of opinion can be resolved only by brute force is to deny the principles upon which our civilization is based. 
If civilization means anything it means that peoples may live in security and without the fear, at any time, of being subjected to violence or brute force. There were some who were prepared to concede some claim of right to Germany after the onslaught on Austria, and some who were disposed to apologize when Hitler took Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia ; but there is none to condone his treachery to Bohemia and Moravia and none to justify his brutal attack upon Poland, the sinking of unarmed neutral shipping, and his latest aggression against and treachery to Denmark and Norway. If the world at large did not see it before, the fact must to-day be apparent that Hitler has one object and one object only - the subjection of the world to brute force under his dictatorship. This man, drunk with his own success to date, is attempting to force his will upon every other nation. 
To those Australians who, some months ago, talked so glibly about the merits of isolation and suggested that Australia could, perhaps, remain a neutral while the rest of the Empire was at war- 
I repeat that those persons who suggested that Australia should adopt an isolationist policy, should look at the position of Norway to-day. 
 Who suggested an isolationist policy for Australia? 
Australia. Our safety is best ensured by meeting the enemy wherever he may be. Those persons who have urged that no Australian soldiers should go out of this country to take part in this war should consider the fate of other countries that had adopted a similar attitude. If we are to save this country we shall have to defeat Germany and Germany's allies. We can best do that by meeting the enemy at every point that may be attacked. So I suggest that every member of this chamber should, as I hope and believe he will, loyally support the Government in its war effort to rid the world of this grave menace. 
I am not concerned about the result of a recent by-election. If in the near future the Australian Labour party took office in this Parliament, and if its war policy were framed to give full support to Great Britain and our allies, it could rely upon my whole-hearted support. I now expect the same support from them for this Government, and I deprecate this quibbling over party politics in a crisis such as we are facing to-day. I urge the Labour Opposition in this Parliament to follow the lead of the British Labour party and of the Socialist party in France, and to give its whole-hearted support to the war effort of whatever government may be in power. The issue confronting us transcends party politics. The safety of the Empire and the liberty of every British subject are at stake. I hold the view that whilst the respective political parties in this Parliament may retain their separate identities during this crisis they should sink their differences and unite in a common effort to win this war. We should not indulge in petty bickering at a time when the whole of our energies should be directed to ensuring the complete unity of all sections of the people. 
On the declaration of war the Prime Minister and his Government irrevocably pledged Australia to stand side by side with the Mother Country in the prosecution of this war. In furtherance of its purpose the Government took steps to train, equip and despatch an army for oversea s service, as well as to train and equip an army sufficient to withstand any attack that might be made on Australia itself. The Australian coastline is one of the Empire'swar fronts and must be protected. Because of the attitude of certain dictators in the world to-day, we know not at what point they will strike, or when. The Prime Minister and the members of this Government have made it plain that they regard the adequate defence of Australia as of paramount importance. 1 have already said that should Great Britain and her allies fall in this struggle Australia also will fall. During this war Australia may be attacked. It is part of our responsibility and duty- 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

Thiswar will be fought by not only man-power ; other means will contribute in equal measure to our success. These other means include the provision of munitions, foodstuffs, and all those things which are essential in what is commonly known as the economic war. Australia has not shut its eyes to the importance of the economic front, but has already made a valuable contribution of material to the Alliedwar effort. On the outbreak of war, the Government realized that the Allies should  have  first claim upon our produce.an agreementwas made for the sale of the whole of our wool to Great Britain in order that the Allies should at all times be assured of sufficient wool.We notewith satisfaction that the wool clip for the year just endingwill amount to 1,100,000,000 lb. comparedwith 982,000,000 lb. in the previous year, whilst ourwheat crop will be approximately 204,000,000 bushels,  as compared with our normal crop of 155,000,000 bushels. In addition, we have supplied to Great Britain and its Allies meat, eggs, butter, bacon and many other primary products. It is gratifying to note that the value of our exports for the nine months to the end of March of this year is £7,500,000 more than for the corresponding period of last year. Admittedly we have had a bountiful season, but it is evident that our producers will play their part in the nation's war effort. We have just supplied to Great Britain over £3,000,000 worth of munitions, whilst we are also providing it with iron and steel products and other manufactured goods that we did not export in the last war. During the last war, Australia was almost entirely a primary-producing country, whereas to-day it is a comparatively large manufacturing country. We can make a very valuable contribution to victory in this war by supplying manufactured products to the Allies. In this respect, I fear that one of the most urgent needs, not only during the war but also after it, will be ships. I trust that the Government is making every effort to expedite shipbuilding in this country. Australia has rich stores of iron ore. and some of the richest coal in the world, whilst our workmen are equal to the best elsewhere. There is nothing to- prevent us from building ships in Australia. I trust,' therefore, that not a moment is being lost in making our contribution to the war effort by proceeding with the construction of ships in this country. 
Another phase of our war efforts is the survey of dollar exchange. If we are to overcome Germany quickly we shall need to purchase munitions, aeroplanes and other commodities from the United States of America. That country is trading on a cash and carry basis, and we can secure commodities from it only if we can pay cash for  the7n.  Since the war began, Great Britain has expended over £30,000,000 in the United States of America. If spending continues at that rate Great. Britain's dollar reserves will be quickly exhausted. It is up to Australia to play its part in this respect by conserving every dollar in order to enable us to purchase war equipment and other necessaries for our war effort, and also to assist the purchasing power of Great Britain. I ask the Government, therefore, to take much more drastic action than it has taken so far to increase our exports to those countries through which we can build up dollar exchange, and also to prohibit the importation from other than sterling countries of everything that is not absolutely necessary for our war effort. It is somewhat alarming to note that in spite of the restrictions that have been placed on importation since the declaration of war, goods imported for the nine months ended March of this year were worth £7,000,000 more than those imported for the corresponding period of last year. It is obvious that in spite of restrictions goods are coming into this country at an alarming rate. We are not building up our dollar exchange as rapidly as we must if we are to make our maximum war effort. It is necessary, of course, to allow the entry of raw material for our essential, industries, and also certain man.ufactu.red products which we cannot secure from sterling countries. Large quantities of goods of other kinds, however, are coming into Australia from the United States of America and other dollar countries which we could very well do without. I have received a number of telegrams  urging  me to request the Government to remove the restriction upon the importation of salmon. This country is at war, and if the people of Australia were obliged to go without salmon it would not be a very big war effort for them to make. 
Some months ago in this chamber, realizing the difficulties of transporting our primary products overseas and the obvious shortage that would arise from the sinking of ships, both of the Allies and neutrals, I urged the Government to take steps to divert our coastal shipping to the overseas trade. I am sorry that that has not been done. I again ask the Government to consider, before it ' is too late, the advisability of using our coastal ships for the transport of our primary products which are so urgently needed for our troops oversea;* and those of our Allies. The German occupation of Denmark has shut off Great Britain from its main source of butter, bacon and many other commodities. If the British, people are to  receive  the sustenance necessary to enable them to make their maximum war effort, Australia and the other Dominions must take the place of Denmark and supply those commodities to Great Britain.. I say, first, that we must have the ships to transport such products overseas, and, secondly, we must see that Great Britain is supplied with these commodities, even if in doing so we be obliged to control our own consumption. The fighting forces of the Allies must get the best. On the declaration of war the Government realized that if Australia were to make its maximum war effort, our local economy must be kept on a sound basis. It realized that during the last war chaos, hardship and difficulty were caused by soaring prices. On this occasion it took  immediate  action to prevent prices from increasing abnormally. When it did so some people went round the country saying, "You cannot fix prices; such a plan will never succeed ". It has succeeded. The prices in Great Britain have increased 25 per cent. During the last war, prices in Australia increased by 100 per cent.; but, during the first five months of this war, the price increase has been under 6 per cent. The whole of that increase has occurred in respect of imports, or is due to factors arising therefrom over which we have no control. The Government is to be congratulated upon, and commended for, the effective legislation which it has introduced, and for the valuable work of the Prices Commissioner and his able associates, who have enabled this legislation to operate smoothly and effectively. 
Another step necessary to maintain our economy on a sound basis was the prevention of soaring interest rates. Every honorable senator will remember that, during the last war, loans were raised at 6 per cent. At the outset of this war the interest rate in Australia, was slightly over 4 per cent., and it is pleasing to note that through effective Government control, sound policy and good management the rate of interest on Commonwealth bonds to-day is 3 per cent., the lowest rate for ten or fifteen years. I say, again, that the Government's policy has been remarkably successful. Many people in this community overlook all the good things that the Government has done, and- ye't are critical in respect of some small matter of administrative detail. As honorable senators know, I have no hesitation in criticizing the Government when I consider that criticism is deserved, but it is only honest to tell the people when the Government's policy has been effective as well as when it has been ineffective. It is gratifying to most honorable senators that the Government has removed the tax-free provisions in respect of all new loans. Most of us believe that in this struggle there should be no privileged class. None should be exempt from his fair obligation to contribute to the war effort. We must commend the Government,' further, for its foresight in training artisans, so as to enable Australia to increase its production. It was obvious that before long there would be a shortage of skilled men, and the efforts made to train artisans will, I trust, prevent any hold-up in this direction. 
I shall now deal with a matter that is, no doubt, troubling the mind of every honorable senator. While Australia is engaged in the fiercest struggle that it has ever had to face, we find that our industrial production is held up by a strike. For the purpose of settling differences between employers and employees there is no need to resort to the method of force adopted by Hitler, for this Parliament has established an Arbitration Court to which either party may apply. The coal-miners applied to the Arbitration Court, in spite of the fact that the secretary of their union says that he does not believe in arbitration, and the Court gave a decision which was varied by a higher court. 

 Senator Keane. - The miners never wanted any appeal. They wanted Judge Drake-Brockman's award. Give the whole story! 
Victory for Hitler and Stalin . would mean tlie enslavement of peoples, the ruin of culture, and the destruction of the hopes of the workers. 
Those who carried that resolution recognize who our enemies are; our enemies are Hitler and Stalin - two of a kind, dressed in different clothes. Both are dictators; both are suppressing liberty, and both have attacked countries which have done no harm to them. I repeat that the British trade unionists and the French Socialists stand solidly behind their respective governments, and are resolved to play their full part in ridding the world of these two tyrants. I suggest to honorable senators opposite that instead of giving lip salve to these striking miners they should say to them : " Look here, chaps, wc are at war. Your homes and your liberty are at stake ; everything we possess in Australia is at stake; what about working a little longer and a little harder for the duration of the war"? 
I wonder whether it is possible for the Labour party in Australia to place itself on that high plane of loyalty and service to the community, on which stand the Labour party in England and New Zealand and the socialists in France. If members of the Labour party could raise themselves to that plane, I would indeed bc proud. That is what is wanted. This is not a time for one side to try to make political capital out of a disastrous strike. We all should join hands and, if we see weaknesses in our industrial system, or in our  Avar  policy,  Ave  should strive together- to remove the defects. 
I think we may justly claim that the Government has a remarkable record of achievement. There have been weaknesses in administration, but they are rapidly being cured. On its broad policy, however, the Government has a record of which it may justly be proud. 
I second the motion. At the outset I should like to say that I feel gratified to be able, as a member of the United Country party, to stand to-day in the same team as my colleagues of the United Australia party. 
lt is never too late to do the right ^ thing, and I hope that the Labour party will stand with us in support of the Government's efforts to  win this war, in  which defeat would mean the loss of the great privileges that they and Ave equally enjoy. There are some, honorable  Senatot's  who are always over-ready to make petty and frivolous interjections, but they will recognize that to-night I am dealing with serious matters. They will admit that I have never been a bitter, abusive, or unfair opponent, and I ask of them that I be given a clean, fair go, and that I be not subjected to a running fire of foolish interruptions and comment. The very existence of our British institutions depends on the stand which is now being taken, not only by ourselves, but also by the Allies with whom we are fighting. 

 Senator Wilson touched briefly upon the magnificent efforts being made by the great democracies with whom we are so proud to be alined, in an endeavour to preserve the world from this stark terror of Nazi-ism, and physical and mental slavery which is engulfing so many innocent people in the world to-day. Is not the aim of my friends opposite exactly the same as mine? 
Opposition  Senators. -  Hear, hear ! 
I am not here to indulge in recriminations, or to impute disloyalty. In the course of my address, 1 shall endeavour to show that there are many people in this country to-day - my friends opposite will be the first to recognize it - who are victims of the persuasive tongues of disloyalists who are only too glad to attack the very heart of industry and paralyze the nerve centres of our war activity. That is the method that they always employ, and we must not flatter ourselves that Australia is exempt from the subversive effort that is being made in every other part of the world. "Within the hist few days reports have reached us from Yugoslavia that attention has been drawn to the arrival in that country of large numbers of young, athletic, German tourists. That influx has caused considerable alarm. We all know that during the last, few years there has been a considerable influx of European peoples to this country. Although the Commonwealth departments concerned may have taken the greatest care, it- is not to be assumed that disloyal elements have not found their way into Australia. It would be foolish to imagine that Australia is entirely immune from that rotten disloyal element, no matter what class or stratum of society it may be in, that has been so dangerous in every other country. We must stand together ; we must give to each other the hand of friendship ; we must cooperate in will, speech and deed in an endeavour to eliminate this cancer that threatens to eat into the heart of Australia. I hope that my friends opposite will adopt that spirit, and be patient with me; I do not think they will have much to complain of. They have my sympathy on account of the way in which the malignant cancer of communism has already oaten into their organizations. Gladly will I see them eliminate the disruptive elements from their ranks. Do not let us tie a bandage over our eyes, and blind ourselves to what is really happening. 1 remember a good many years ago - since the last war, but a number of years before the Spanish Civil War - a body of young Sydney men, including a relative of mine, formed themselves into a kind of literary and debating society. I have on more than one occasion adjudicated on their debates. It was their practice to call speakers from outside their organization to give addresses on different subjects. On one occasion they thought they would like to have an exposition of communism by a true Communist, and they wrote to the Communist organization in Sydney, and asked that  Mr. J.  S. Garden, whom they believed to be a true Communist, be sent to give the address. The Communists replied that  Mr. Garden  had severed his connexion with them, but that they would send a representative  speaker.  The Communist representative duly arrived and gave a very interesting and lucid exposition of the ideals and objectives of the Communist party. The listeners were amazed at the frankness of the  speaker.  From what he said it was perfectly clear that the object of the Communist movement was to " whiteant " Australian industry and if possible convert this land as well as other countries to communism. That was the avowed goal of the Communist movement at that time, and I do not think its principles have since changed. The interesting point was, however, that the  speaker  gave the boys a list showing the order in which it was hoped to convert the various countries to communism. I do not remember the whole list, but the fact, has always stuck in my mind that the first country on the list was Spain and the second was Australia. I repeat that we must not tie a bandage over our eyes, and foolishly believe that we shall be exempt from the machinations of thi3 organization.. In matters such as this we must rid ourselves of party prejudices and work unitedly to eliminate an evil from our midst. 
That idea is entirely foolish. It is every body's duty to*  see that not alone by official act but by all possible means the Australian people protect themselves against this menace. We shall be exposed to grave risk if we delude ourselves with the thought that because the Communist party is numerically small it does not matter. I point out that although Russia had a population of 150,000,000, the Communist party numbering 250,000 has kept the entire country down. 
I shall suggest a method by which, perhaps, my eloquent friend,  Senator Sheehan,  can render undoubted service to humanity and to Australia in particular. In this country there is in progress a most tragic strike, the effects and misery of which have not yet been entirely felt. I was interested to hear  Senator Wilson  say, earlier this evening, that he was grateful that Australia was enjoying a bountiful season. The part of New South Wales from which I come is experiencing the most devastating drought that has occurred in our whole history. So severe has the drought been that up to last week, at all events, fairly substantial ironbark trees were dying in the paddocks from sheer starvation. Water-courses that previously had been regarded as permanent were dry dust, and stock were looking miserably and helplessly over fences. Small farmers without reserves were in dire straits. Fodder supplies had been held up because the coal strike had led to to the curtailment of railway services. Consequently valuable stock had to be destroyed in order to put. them out of their misery because, owing to the strike, food could not be brought to these dumb, suffering creatures. Happily the conditions in that district were only a small aspect of the evils of this strike. Our heavy industries, upon which our war effort so largely depends, have been hung up. Our transport services are being cut down and we are gradually approaching the point of absolute stagnation. In the newspapers we have read of suggestions - I do not know how serious they are - that, although in this war our right even to exist is almost at stake, the electric light supply of a great city like Sydney should be cut off. 
Even if that were not done deliberately the ultimate exhaustion of our available coal supplies would mean nothing less. Honorable senators opposite ask what we can do. We could at least say to these men : " Before you strike and plunge women and children into the misery that you know must exist on the coal-fields, and even throughout the State, in times of industrial upheaval, you could go on every platform throughout New South Wales and state that you are fighting for democracy ". The basis of democracy is the secret ballot. In this crisis, when our country, our civilization and our homes are threatened, every honorable senator opposite, and particularly those connected with the coal-fields, should raise their voices and protest openly on the platform against this denial of the secret ballot to those who are involved in the strike. I venture to say that SO per cent, of the coal-miners of  New  South Wales did not want to strike. My honorable friends opposite know that that is true. They know that wherever a meeting is held to decide whether or not there shall be a strike, the rank and file of the unions dare not raise their voices because they know that if they did they would become marked men and life would not be worth living. Therefore they bow to the dictates of the union bosses. That sort of thing savours of communism. The basis of communistic subversion is to get Communists into key positions in all industrial organizations. That system is based on terrorism. What possible logical, reason is there to deny to trade unionists the right to decide by secret ballot whether or not they shall go on strike? My God! their women and their children are threatened often with starvation. They have to make the most h e a r t- r en d i n g s a c rrifices . 
I ask the honorable senator first to1 answer my question : " Why does not the Labour party, if it is democratic, tell these union leaders (hat they must not deny the right to hold a secret ballot to those who will be half-starved as the result of a strike"? 
In His Excellency's speech this afternoon we could discern two main parts: 
The first was a declaration that we should bend every effort towards winning the war because, after all, our future right to sit in this Parliament and express our opinions on any subject depends upon our victory. I need not indulge in any platitudinous exposition of what that means. When honorable senators read current books dealing with the internal conditions of Nazi Germany they must be filled with horror at the thought of what would happen should we lose this war. Those books describe what we and our children would have to suffer in the event of a Nazi victory. I think we all agree that life would not. be worth living under such conditions. For us, who have been reared in the free atmosphere of a democracy, life would be absolutely intolerable. There would, I believe, be many suicides if we awoke to-morrow to find a Nazi government in charge of Australia. 
That is so. We know only too well what cruel things have been done by Nazi invaders in other countries. Is it to be supposed that the unfortunate starving subjects of conquered Poland are to be well fed by a Germany already suffering from the shortages caused by a blockade which, unhappily, the Allies must enforce against the enemy? Is it to be supposed that once under the German heel the slightest consideration will be given to Denmark, a wonderful little country, entirely democratic, progressive, peaceful and prosperous, which has set a shining example to the big, powerful, bullying neighbors around it, or to .Sweden, which has a socialist government run on excellent lines, oi- to Norway, Germany's latest victim. Denmark is one of the most highly-developed farming countries in the world. The volume of its primary production is sufficient to provide for local consumption and for considerable exports to Great Britain. Is it to bc supposed that those people will be given anything like a fair deal in the food queues when the Nazis' belts have to be tightened further? It is obvious that the seizure of Denmark was carried out not only with the hope of obtaining bases more convenient for the Nazis to launch an attack on Britain, but also for the purpose of robbing the Danes of the very means to sustain life - their supplies of food. That is what we could look for in Australia in similar circumstances. Under a Nazi government there would be no incentive for our producers to endeavor to grow even one ear of wheat; they would be in such a complete state of depression and despondency that they would prefer death to slavery under such masters. 
Throughout the two main themes of His Excellency's speech ran a third. As I have said, the first point was that we must bend every effort to win the war, and I state that we dare not, and must not, lose it. I believe that all of us here to-night make that resolution, but we must also look ahead, as many thinkers of the world have urged, and bend our energies to devising some means of guaranteeing to the world that this aggression shall cease. 
When this conflict is over we shall probably enter upon an entirely new world system. I impress this point upon the whole Senate, but particularly upon honorable senators opposite. If we win the war we may still have to live under conditions entailing the absorption of all our financial strength . in the manufacture of armaments. What would be left over for social uplift and development, so that civilization, ever ascending, might provide better and still better conditions for the general masses of the people ? If all our resources are to be utilized for the production of arms we shall get nowhere; but if we could devise some system that would guarantee security in the future - and I mean guarantee in the true sense, not a guarantee based merely on agreements, but one backed by a certain amount of central force - under a proper system the armaments of even the fourth-rate and fifth-rate Powers might be sufficient to police the world, thus releasing untold millions of wealth, to make possible the new social order that we all so much desire. 
What I am saying absolutely coincides with the pronouncement made by  Mr. Chamberlain,  the Prime Minister of 
Great Britain, when he was asked to re-state the war and peace objectives of the Allies. He stated that our main war objective was to do everything in our power to bring about victory. Then he pointed out that we must endeavour to obtain security for the future. As His Excellency very rightly said this afternoon, we must place our war effort on a firm and proper foundation and then do everything that we can, during the currency of the conflict and in the transition periods, to keep a contented, healthy and, so far as it is humanly possible, wellcaredfor people within our own shores. Those are the objectives at which any sound government must aim. 
I turn now to deal with some of the expressions and pronouncements that have been made by different people and organizations of importance in the world to-day on the subjects of post-war nonaggression, peace and disarmament. We have heard President Roosevelt continually clamouring for a future guarantee of non-aggression. We have also read protests from other prominent American statesmen against a policy of aggression such as that in which Germany is now engaged. We have read the notable pronouncements by M. Daladier, the ex-Premier ofFrance, His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, and His Holiness the Pope, as well as those by other notable peace-lovers throughout the world. When I speak so strongly in advocacy of international peace, I trust that I shall not be regarded as a pacifist. There is no room for pacifism until the war is won and we have some definite and reliable assurance that our enemies will agree to be bound as we also would agree to be bound. Surely that is the aim of every civilized country. 
The voice of Karl Marx will not be answered now.  Senator Sheehan  should realize that I am not endeavouring to make political capital out of the present situation, or to draw class distinctions. We are discussing a serious subject, and I should like the honorable senator to refrain from interjecting, because in doing so he interrupts my speech. Unless you, sir, protect me I shall have to call upon you to exercise your authority. I have been subjected to a number of interruptions, most of which have come from the one part of the chamber. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator addressing the chamber has a right to be heard in silence. 
 Senator Sheehan  is the only honorable senator opposite who persists in interjecting. 
I am not saying anything offensive, but his "soapbox tactics " are very disturbing. One of the latest and most interesting pronouncements on the international situation was that made within the last week or two by the Allied Supreme War Council as to an agreement with respect to future security against Germany. That council even considered the setting up of committees to examine various aspects of the problem - amongst others, the possibility of an Anglo-French agreement as a post-war guarantee of peace. Why should it be limited to France and Britain? Why should it not be extended throughout the civilized world? The French nation, which has had a very raw deal, has every reason to be afraid of the continued threats against its liberty. A most interesting feature is that the council even discussed the' possibility of some form of joint electoral and parliamentary activity. The newspapers directed attention to the amazing fusion of ideals, determination and spirit of the French and British nations. The council visualized community of action in all spheres for so long as may be necessary. At a later stage, I propose to ask the Senate to adopt a suggestion to extend that principle to such a degree that nations other than Britain and France could be included. The Supreme War Council went on to say - 
The only basis of peace on which Anglo- French unity can be permanently established is one which assures France's future security against the perpetual enemy. Success of such a policy is considered to depend not only on joint military and economic safeguards, but also on the extent to which a closer post-war union - which might be the first step towards federal union - will appeal to the respective populaces. Consequently, much more will soon  Ito  heard in many parts of the world about the project. 
That amazing and interesting condition has arisen as a result of the aggression and bullying being perpetrated under the Nazi system.  Mr. Cordell  Hull, who has made notable pronouncements, has already endeavoured to analyse post-war conditions which cannot be separated from the war conditions prevailing today. We must provide for cushioning between one condition and another, and in order to do so provision must be made to cater for the people's welfare and industry when this dreadful conflict terminates. That is a direction in which -human intelligence and ingenuity should be exerted at present. It would appear that  Mr. Cordell  Hull rather puts the cart before the horse, because he deals with the effect rather than the cause. He speaks also of eliminating tariff barriers, bartering and import quotas, and mentions irregular currencies similar to that of Germany. He also revealed that diplomatic consultations on the subject are now proceeding in all the capitals of the world, but I do not know whether the Commonwealth Government has been a party to discussions on this subject. It is useless to establish a sound economic and financial system unless it can be allowed to operate uninterruptedly. The Danes and the Norwegians were operating' under satisfactory systems of government, but, as they have become the victims of Germany, such systems cannot continue to function.  Mr. Cordell  Hull and other leaders should realize that in establishing bodies such as the League of Nations which was set up after the last war, some effective provision must be made for their security and continuity. The action of an aggressor could, unless proper precautions were taken, result in the destruction of even the most highly efficient governmental system. In these circumstances, we must endeavour to suggest something stronger, better, and with more power behind it than has been established previously, without interfering with the right of self-government.  Mr. Cordell  Hull went on to say - 
If  the forces of peace and general stability were not organized before the transition and reconstruction period autarchy, regimentation and economic totalitarianism would probably follow the post-wor.ld-war tendency. 
Now we come to .the most amazing pronouncement - I do not claim that it is authentic - made by Lord Tavistock. He is supposed to have secured certain peace terms, the existence of which has since been denied. Lord Tavistock brought to Great Britain what he said were Hitler's peace terms. Included in these, were seven or eight conditions which honorable senators have already read. Two are intensely interesting. The fourth read - 
She is prepared to disarm, provided all Powers interested in an international disarmament pact do likewise. 
The fifth read- 
She is prepared to join the League of Nations provided the League assures that all grievances are dealt with fairly and not set aside by dominant powers like Britain and France. 
Recently, I received a reprint of an article written by  Sir John  Paish which appeared in  Conciliation,  the journal of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He sets out a number of steps in the order in which they appeal to him. The ninth -read - 
To agree to collaborate for the mutual good of all countries through the medium of the League of Nations at Geneva and to regard the Council and the Assembly of the League as the world's Parliament in which all differences between the nations can be peacefully and reasonably adjusted in an atmosphere of friendship and peace. 
It is a strange fact that although all these persons are able to see what ought to be done they fail to suggest any practical means which will guarantee with absolute certainty the peace of the world. 
Was not such a method provided with the establishment of the League of Nations? 
Our desire, then, when we have achieved our war aims, is to establish a new Europe. 
Why only a new Europe? Why does he. propose to limit the benefits of the new arrangement to Europe? Let us from this Parliament send forth a message telling these reformers to think, in terms not of Europe only, but of the whole world. 
Our desire, then, when we have achieved our war aims, would be to establish a new Europe, not new in the sense of tearing up all the old frontier posts and re-drawing the map according to the ideas of the victors, but a Europe with a new spirit in which the nations which inhabit it will approach their difficulties with good-will and mutual tolerance. 
Let him apply his magnificent ideas to achieving the peace of the world, not only the peace of Europe. Every war that breaks out today is the concern of every individual man throughout the whole civilized world. A little while ago, a Minister of the Crown delivered an address before a certain body in Sydney in which he outlined plans for economic reconstruction after the war. To him also I say that he should not put the cart before the horse. It is first necessary to create a condition of affairs in the world in which these economic plans have a reasonable chance of being successful. Many members of Parliament also received copies of a document setting forth a thoughtful plan devised by a member of the Salvation Army for post-war readjustment. In this scheme it was proposed to transform the armies which had been fighting the war into armies of industry after the war. I mention the proposal now as something at least deserving consideration. A proposal for the creation of the United States of Europe has been put forward in Sydney by  Mr. A.  B. Piddington, K.C. He has issued a pamphlet dealing with the subject. I also point out that there are many others in various parts of the world working along the same lines. Only a few days before I came to Canberra I was able, through the courtesy of  Dr. Clunies  Ross, to look at a book published by  Mr. R.  W. G. Mackay in London in which he sets forth a suggested constitution for a federation of European states. Clarence K. Street has written a book in which he suggests the immediate union of all the democracies. I point out, however, that all these proposals, no matter how desirable they may be in themselves, are wholly beyond our reach at present.We must not try to do too much at once. Any attempt to federalize the European States would create argument and dispute which might last for 100 years. There would be nothing but wrangling and disputes, and no finality would ever be reached. In any case, may I ask of what use would be a federal Europe? Is it to be supposed that we should have also a federal Asia and a federal America ? In that case we should merely be concentrating all the power of devastation into three great political units which would be able to wage war even more terribly than is possible at the present time. It is all very well for us, who are familiar with the principles of federation, to make proposals, but it would be an entirely different matter to obtain the consent of countries which are, perhaps, hundreds of years behind us in their understanding of democratic principles. They would be terrified at the idea of surrendering their sovereign powers to an authority which they did not understand and did not trust. On the other hand, it is possible for us here to send out a message to all countries to join in a scheme for the control of armaments and the enforcement of international treaties. The League of Nations failed because it had no police force, no power to carry its decisions into effect. It had no force behind it at all, except the authority of a few of the Powers, upon whom must rest the responsibility of doing the dirty work, if it were to be done at all, of enforcing sanctions against recalcitrant members. Once we have won the war, and brought the bullying Nazis to their knees and made them understand that aggression does not pay, then the world can proceed to the creation of a representative international body which would have the exclusive right to possess arms for the maintenance of peace. I suggest that the same principle of representation should apply in regard to such an international body as applies in this Senate, namely, that each member 
State should have equal representation.  Mr. Mackay  discards the principle of a Senate altogether, and provides only for a House of Representatives. The amazing thing is that he cannot see what would be the effect of giving the various component States representation on a population basis, for that is what he proposes. We are all aware that Tasmania, for instance, would never have agreed to enter federation had its representation in the Senate been only in proportion to its population.  Mr. Mackay  also goes on to say that this Senate has failed in its purpose as a State House. I do not think that honorable senators generally will admit that. He says that the principle of State representation has been nullified by party alinements, but in answer to that charge it is only necessary to point out how solidly State representatives, irrespective of party, vote when some matter vital to their State, such as a Commonwealth grant, is under consideration. It is quite certain that no small nation in the world would dream of entering  a  world federation for the control of armaments unless it were given equal representation with the most powerful nation in the world. The wonderful thing about such a proposal is that there would be no attempt to humiliate even a defeated enemy country. If Germany, after the war, were genuine in its acceptance of disarmament proposals, there would be no reason why it should not be admitted on the same terms as other countries. The body to be created would have power to deal with treaties and international law. There is really no such thing as international law to-day; it exists only so long as the various states are prepared to honour it. Under this proposal, however, when a treaty was drawn up between two nations it would be registered with the international authority, which would then automatically become the authority charged with the enforcement of the treaty. But who will say whether the treaty is being flouted or not? The answer to the question is that it will be necessary to have an international judiciary to pronounce on the point at the request of one of the parties. Such a request would be the authority for the Armament Commonwealth to take action. 
Irrespective of party I invite the earnest and sincere co-operation of honorable senators at a later date in dealing with this matter. Undoubtedly all of us believe that some body in the nature of the League of Nations, yet at the same time more effective than the league, a body capable of enforcing its decisions against a country which disturbs the peace, should be set up in order to guarantee the future peace of the world. 
In conclusion I draw the attention of honorable senators particularly to one aspect of this matter. I ask them to remember what is the real cause of war. Strangely, it was  Mr. Cordell  Hull who said that after the war we should have to inquire into the cause of war. I am sure that every honorable senator could state here to-night the actual cause of the outbreak of war. It is undeniable that the real cause of the outbreak of war, apart from the motives leading up to war, lies in the ability of the individual nations to put into practical effect their ill-will, greed, or ambitions by reason of their uncontrolled facilities to make, possess, and use the engines and implements of war. I invite any one to challenge that definition of the cause of the outbreak of war. If these facilities be effectively controlled by a mutually constituted central body, equally and fairly representative of all of the nations, we shall achieve after this war something which will prove far more effective in overcoming the difficulties which brought about the failure of the League of Nations. 
I shall not detain honorable senators further. Most of the aspects of  His  Excellency's speech have been ably dealt with by  Senator Wilson.  With him I congratulate the Government on its efforts in prosecuting the war. As a member of the Country party and a representative of the primary producers I may from time to time have reason to criticize adversely certain of the Government's actions. For instance, I do not bind myself not to grumble against the operations of some of the commodity boards which have been established. The Leader of the Senate knows the particular board with which I am not entirely pleased as a representative of the primary producers. He would lose much sleep to-night if I were even to mention apples and pears. On the whole, however, I support what  Senator Wilson  has said and congratulate the Government on its activities. I agree that for the present we have scotched the profiteer, insofar as human ingenuity can succeed in that direction. This country can rest assured that no effort will be spared by the Government to make every body, rich and poor, bear a fair share of the country's burden in winning this great fight for democracy and for our very future. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
The agreement between the Commonwealth and the Government of the United Kingdom in connexion with the sale of Australian wool provides for a review of prices in May of each year. The other matter mentioned by the honorable senator will be considered by the Government. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state whether the Government intends to restore the fertilizer subsidy to 15s. a ton in order to assist small producers . to meet the increased - cost of production caused by the higher prices of fertilizers, mill offals and petrol? 
- It is not customary to indicate matters of government policy in answer to questions. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce in a position to give any information to the Senate as to whether the subsidy on fertilizers will be continued in the coming financial year? 
As I understand that the Prime Minister has arranged to address a meeting of the miners on the northern coal-fields on Friday next, and that his remarks will be broadcast through the national stations, thereby acquainting the public of Australia with the Government's views on  this matter, will the Minister representing the Prime Minister state whether similar facilities will be provided to the miners' representatives to state their case likewise? 
The Prime Minister, in addressing the miners, proposes to make a statement on behalf of the Government. As to the second part of the question, I am not in a position to give a reply. 
I have a perfect right to answer which questions I choose, and in the manner I choose. 
Prior to. addressing a question to the Leader of the Senate, I draw his attention to the fact that I have received the following telegram from Victoria -  
Unless strike settled early, metropolitan area will be without wood, coal, coke, briquettes and mallee roots. Stocks in yards will only last one week. - D. Elliston, Hawthornroad, Caulfleld. 
Can the Minister give to the Senate any indication of the intention of the Government with regard to the dispute? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Con ciliation and Arbitration Act provides that each Arbitration Court judge shall be charged with the duty of endeavouring at all times, by all lawful ways and means, to reconcile the parties in industrial disputes? 
If so. can the Minister give any explanation as to why no endeavour has been made on behalf of the Government, or by the Arbitration Court judge, to call a compulsory conference of all parties in the dispute, with a view to settling the dispute in the coal-mining industry? 
So far as. the Government is concerned, It has no power under the act to convenea compulsory conference. A judge may, wherever in his opinion it is desirable for the purpose of ' settling a dispute, convene  a  compulsory conference. It is not the practice for Ministers to give explanations as to the manner in which any member of the judiciary exercises the jurisdiction of the court.' 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Postmaster-General inquire into the effect that the Public Service Arbitrator's decision regarding increments will have upon returned soldier motor drivers . in . his department, and if it be found these employees are not sympathetically treated, will he take steps to remove . the anomaly ? 
The PostmasterGeneral  has  supplied the following answer :  - 
The normal method of determining incremental advancement under determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator was applied in the case of Determination No. 25 of 1939 affecting the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and consequently nil motor drivers are receiving their correct rates of pay. It' is impracticable to discriminate in the application of determinations as between officers who are returned soldiers' and non-soldiers performing exactly similar duties. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is there any provision in specifications relating to Commonwealth Government contracts for public works, buildings, &amp;c, ensuring the employment of modern methods and appliances ? 
In the case of the new Patents Office in Canberra,what is the contract time for completion ? ' ' 
Is this contract likely to bo completed within contract timet 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The general conditions of contract contain a clause that the contractor must provide all labour, materials and plant and everything which the Works Director may consider necessary for the proper and complete performance of the contract. Where it is considered, necessary or desirable, the use of special appliances is specified. 
14th May,  1940. 
It is -expectedthat thisbuildingwill 'be completed by the middle of June next. The Records Block is already occupied 'by the Patents Office. 
asked the Minis ter for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What amount was voted during the -last financial year for housing in Canberra? 2.What is the value of . the work already completed in this programme? 
Whatamounthas been actually paid out, as at this date, on account of the work already completed? 
SenatorFOLL. - The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Does the Army Department own about 500 acres of land atLangwarrin, "Victoria? 
If so., is the Government utilizing this land for military purposes? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for tire Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
. Yes. 
No. 
Thearea is unsuitable forany existing jinny requirements. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has any decision been reached regarding the increase of freight rates on interstate vessels? 
If so, what is the nature of such decision ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 1 and 2. Early in October last the Interstate Shipping Companies increased freights by 20 20 cent, over rates prevailing on the 31st August, 1939. The Commonwealth Prices Commissioner after a preliminary survey of the facts available and pending" a detailed investigation, issued an order reducing the increase to 10 per cent. Subsequent inquiries disclosed that the shipping companies were carrying increased costs due to higher insurance, naval routing and loss of passenger traffic, but that no higher increase than 10 per cent, was justified. The question is continually under review and a quarterly check is being conducted of the operations of the companies so th at rates may be varied if necessary to meet changing conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Information,  uponnotice - 
Have copies of the leaflets dropped in Germany by the 'British Air Force been received in Australia? 
If so, willthe Government make . such copies . available to members of the Senate? 
If not, will the Government make representations to the British Government tohave such copies -of the leaflets made available to members of the Australian Parliament? 
The Minister for Informationhas supplied the following . answers; - 
Copies of the leaflets have not yet been received by the Department of Information.. 
See No. 1. 
The department has made application for supply of the leaflets but these have not yet come to hand. They will be made available as soon as they arrive. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state the reason why there is so much secrecy in the collection of statistics relating to the cost of living figures? 
Is it possible for senators to obtain the names of companies, firms or persons who supply the Commonweath Statistician with prices which are used for the purpose of calculating the rise or fall in the cost of living? 
Will the Minister supply a complete list of every item taken into consideration by the Statistician connected with the rise or fall in the cost of living? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
There is no undue secrecy in the collection of statistics relating to retail prices and rents. It is standard statistical practice not to divulge particulars relating to individuals, as it is considered that the disclosure ofsuch information might lead to a deterioration in the accuracy of the particulars supplied. In the ease of returns of retail prices, it is also considered necessary to protect the interests of the persons supplying the returns against the possibility of ill-advised action on the part of employers or employees who may consider themselves prejudiced by the nature of the particulars given in the returns. 
This is not deemed advisable. 
A complete list is published annually in the Commonwealth Statistician'sLabour  Report,  copies of which are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply the Senate with the names of the industries covered by the Arbitration Inspector, and the amounts recovered respectively for each industry to date? 
The Minister for Industry has supplied' the following answers : - 
Outside the Australian Capital Territory the Arbitration Inspector polices the awards covering journalists, and employees of banks, insurance companies, trustee companies and municipal corporations. Since  Ms appointment  in February, 1935, the Arbitration Inspector has recovered in respect of underpayments under those awards the amount of £13,243 lGs. 10d. 
In addition, since his appointment, in December, 1938, as Inspector under the Industrial Board Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory, the Inspector lias recovered - £712 (ls. in respect of underpayments under the various determinations of the Industrial Board. 
When will the suggested additional arbitration inspectors bc appointed? 
The Minister for Industry has supplied the following answer : - 
A great number of applications were received and these are now being scrutinized. lt is expected that the appointments will be marie at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
. Have the site and type of buildings for a military hospital for Western Australia been decided upon by the Government? 
What amount of money has been allocated, for that purpose for Western Australia? 
What amount of money has been expended on or allocated for military hospitals in New South Wales and Victoria? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers : - 
The selection and acquisition of a site and determination of the type nf building are still under consideration. 
£40,000. 
Funds to the extent of £171,825 and £18(1,825 have been allocated for military hospitals in New South Wales and Victoria respectively. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
What is the reason for the exclusion of Western Australia from the national broadcast of Australian news items - following the broadcast of overseas news by the Australian Broadcasting Commission at approximately 1 1 a.m., 5.15 p.m. and 9.55 p.m. (Western Australian time) ? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers : - 
The commission's agreement with the Austraiian Newspapers Conference provides that Australian news may be broadcast at the times shown in the following schedule: - First morning news - not before 0.45 a.m.; second morning news (repeat) - about 8 a.m.; first mid day news - not before 12.50 p.m.; second midday news (repeat) - before 2 p.m.; first evening news - not before 7.10 p.m.; second evening news (repeat) - at about 9.30 p.m.; final news (repeat- at time to be decided by the commission. 
The agreement also provides that Australian news must be taken, wherever possible, from local papers and not be relayed from other States. It will be seen that the schedule docs not provide for broadcasts of Australian news at 11 a.m. and 5.1.5 p.m. There is no reason why a local session of Australian news should not be broadcast in Western Australia at 9.55 p.m. after the conclusion of the relay from Sydney of overseas news. I understand that instructions have been issued to this effect, this new session replacing one which is now broadcast at 10.20 p.m. National stations in Western Australia broadcast Australian news six (0) times daily, at the following times: - fi.45 a.m., 7.30 a.m., 12.45 p.m., 7.15 p.m., 10.20 p.m. and 11.20 p.m. 

 - by leave - Since my last statement to the Senate on the progress of the war, events in Europe have developed, at first slowly, and then with dramatic speed. Activity on theWestern Front has been restricted to unimportant skirmishes and patrols by small parties from both sides, with occasional artillery exchanges on a small scale. . The Allies have been engaged in consolidating their positions, and in reconnoitring by observation flights over enemy territory. On the sea, the Royal Navy, with which Dominions naval vessels have co-operated, has kept up the traditions established in the past. German merchant shipping has ceased to move, while enemy naval losses have been substantial. One of the strongest proofs of Allied superiority at sea has been the success of the convoy system. Of more than 17,000 vessels convoyedby the Allied navies, less than one out of every 500 has been, sunk, , At the same time, reports have been received constantly of the sinking of German submarines, and during recent weeks, very little has been heard of their activities. The tightening of the economic blockade has forced Hitler into one desperatebid to ensure essential supplies. To this I shall refer later. 
For the most part, air activity during the past four mouths has been restricted to patrols and reconnaissance flights, with spasmodic encounters between small numbers* of fighters and bombers1 in which the 'German* have lost mo-re planes- than the Allies. 
By patrolling tlie bases from which seaplanes set out on their magnetic mine-laying expeditions,, the Royal Air Force has put a complete stop to this kind of activity. 
On the 16th March, the Germans sent a large force of aeroplanes to attack the British naval, base at .Scapa1 Flow but these failed to inflict any serious damage. Three days later, in retaliation for this raid, a large fleet of British bombers attacked the German base on the island of  Sylt.  Waves of bombers raided the base for seven hours, and inflicted very great damage. One British bomber was lost. The British success in this largest aerial action up to the present, is most encouraging. 
 On the Western. Front, there have been frequent encounters between groups of Allied and German planes, and in practically every case, the Allied pilots have inflicted much more severe losses on the enemy than they themselves suffered. In this way, superior .personal skill and equipment are overcoming the disadvantage of numbers. 
The last ten days have seen a tremendous crescendo in the activity of all branches of the services. With what must have been deliberate planning for a long period ahead, Germany suddenly, and without warning, invaded two neutral and peaceful countries. Within a few hours Denmark was under German domination; a few hours later Norway was attacked, and her rugged country, untouched by war for many generations, became a battlefield in which, I am happy to say, the German occupation is now being effectively countered by the Allied arms. 
If it is possible to admire organization when it has the effect of bringing domination and disaster to peaceful people, then one must pay a tribute to the secrecy and skilful planning with which this evil action was carried out. We are indeed up against a formidable foe. But the British Navy was not idle. 
Within '24  hours,  British: warships' and the British air fleet were rendering assistance to the. Norwegian people. Since, then, the  Skager Rak  has been forced, the Baltic Sea has been mined1, and Allied' forces are in possession of points on the Norwegian coast. Not only have these actions cut off from Germany those supplieS which it formerly received from! the- northern democracies, but we confidently expect that they have left stranded in Noway troops and equipment which must in the near- future fall into Allied hands. 
During the various naval encounters, the German Navy suffered' crippling losses. The battle cruiser  Scharnhorst  is known to have been severely damaged by two hits in its action with H.M.S.  Renown  on the 10th April. Three other cruisers and possibly a fourth are known to have been sunk.. Seven German destroyers were sunk at Narvik, and possibly three more have been put out of action. Two submarines also have been sunk. Tlie 'British losses have been restricted to four destroyers, and four other destroyers have been damaged. The battle cruiser  Renown  "was very slightly damaged in its action with the  Scharnhorst  but the damage done by a bomb to the battleship  Rodney  was negligible. 
I do not conceal from honorable senators my belief that,  as  a result of these events, we have entered upon a phase of this war which may well prove crucial. There is a tense expectancy in the air. Every neutral country in Europe has had its warning; each one has been told by Germany that it has no rights. The success of the Allied actions must surely have a tremendous effect upon those neutrals Who stand wavering and afraid in the shadow of the Third Reich. Are they to exchange their proud and historic independence for a prompt and relatively bloodless slavery by surrender, or are they to stand with these in whose victory resides the only hope for a new dawn of freedom for Europe? The next few weeks will provide the answer. 
I now wish to examine in some detail the development of our own war effort since the beginning of December last. 
In the period under review, there has been a steady expansion of navy personnel, amounting :to 1,000, and the number of ships in commission lias been increased by twelve, including ships formerly under construction and merchant vessels chartered. Since the outbreak of hostilities no less than 138 merchant ships have been defensively armed in Australia - an increase of 41 since early in December, 1939. To ensure the adequate training of gun crews, special gunnery training facilities for officers and men have been established in Melbourne and Sydney. Training courses in anti-submarine work arc also held for selected officers and ratings. 
Traffic around the coasts of- Australia is safeguarded by His Majesty's Australian ships of the Australian Station with the co-operation of the Royal Australian Air Force. The ships are continually employed patrolling and carrying out exercises calculated to maintain them in a high state of fighting efficiency. 
The transportation of the Australian  Imperial  Force overseas involves considerable work in fitting out, equipping and provisioning merchant ships, in making detailed arrangements for sailing from the different ports of embarkation, and arranging adequate escort protection while the convoy is  en route  overseas.  
The efficiency of the special coastwatching organization set up at the outbreak of hostilities is being increased continually. 
The Admiralty has requested the Naval Victualling Department to supply large quantities of victualling stores to His Majesty's ships and establishments of the Mediterranean, East Indies, China and South Africa stations. By the end of this year, some 50,000 tons deadweight of stores will have been supplied. Victualling stores are also supplied to the Australian Imperial Force for use abroad. The Admiralty has recently requested the Commonwealth Government to arrange for the building, as rapidly as possible, of anti-submarine vessels in Australia, and orders are about to be placed to the maximum of our capacity. Arrangements are well advanced for fitting ships with anti-magnetic mine equipment when this is considered necessary. 
Finally, there is the progressive improvement at various ports of naval defence measures, increased storage arrangements, and facilities for embarking fuel, fresh water and stores. 
By December, 1939, considerable progress had been made in connexion with the initial war programme approved for the Army. This programme provided for protection of vulnerable points, the completion of coast defence preparations, intensified militia training, the introduction of universal training beginning in January, 1940, and the raising of the Sixth Division and ancillary troops of the Australian Imperial Force. As the result of the recent comprehensive review by the "War Cabinet of Australia's war effort, this programme has since been extended, mainly by the decisions to expand the Australian Imperial Force to a corps of two divisions and corps troops, and to raise one head-quarters railway construction and maintenance group, three railway construction companies, one railway survey company, and two forestry companies. 
The garrison battalions enlisted from the Australian Imperial Force Reserve for guard duties in connexion with vulnerable points now total 4.655 personnel. Coast defence batteries are in a constant state  of  readiness, the permanent troops being supplemented by militia personnel called up for the duration of the war. 
The first month's period of camp training for the Militia was completed in December, 1939. The first series of three months' camp training period for approximately half the Militia has, in many instances, been completed, and the second series, which will terminate ii&lt; July next, has begun. 
The present strength of the Militia - voluntary enlistment- is 62,328 personnel, 13,720 having been transferred to the Militia Reserve. Further transfers to the reserve are expected with the beginning of the second series of three months camps and at its conclusion. By June, 1940, it is anticipated that about 75,000 voluntarily enlisted and national service personnel will have received periods of training ranging from three to four months. 
During the financial year 1940-41, militia training will revert to the prewar period of twelve days of camp training, with twelve days of home training for officers and reduced periods for other ranks. 
The introduction of universal training under Part IV. of the Defence Act in January, 1940, has resulted in 20,727 national service personnel being called up for training. These men are being trained concurrently with the Militia for a period of eleven weeks of camp training. In addition, men who will have attained the age of 20 or 2.1. years during the calendar year 1940, and who have not been called up under Part IV. of the Defence Act, are being registered under Part XIV. of the act. Registrations to date number 47,003. Of these, 6,573 are serving under voluntary engagements with the Defence Forces. During the year 1940-41 the quota at present in training will carry out the same training as the Militia. The new quota called up in 1940-1 will receive 58 days of camp training, at the conclusion of which they will be trained with Militia units for 12 days of camp training. 
The Sixth Division Advance Party and Head-quarters Overseas Base sailed on the 15th December, 1939. These were followed in January, 1940, by the first detachment of the Sixth Division, which arrived safely in the Middle East, and is continuing its training there. 
Recruiting for the Seventh Division and corps troops will begin in May, 1940. The total strength of the corps, with first reinforcements, will approximate 50,000 personnel. Subsequent reinforcements will be provided for later. Training depots have been established, and, as a beginning, the second, third and fourth reinforcements for the Sixth Division are in process of being raised. 
The forestry and railway construction companies will have a strength of 40 officers and 1,203 other ranks. 
The organization of the Australian Imperial Force on the basis of British war establishments involves the provision of some thousands of mechanical vehicles for the Australian Corps, including light tanks, artillery tractors, lorries and trucks of various types, and Bren and scout carriers. In addition to rifles, light automatics and machine guns, various types of field and medium artillery and antitank weapons will have to be provided from Australian and British sources. Considerable progress has been made with the conversion of artillery equipments to pneumatic tires. 
The clothing of the Sixth Division and ancillary troops and reinforcements, the Militia, national service personnel and garrison battalions has been completed. Provision has been made for replacements and the building up of reserve stocks at home and abroad. 
Owing to the large number of personnel undergoing military training, it has been found necessary to make special provision  for hutted and hospital accommodation. 
All Australian Imperial Force personnel are now inoculated and X-rayed soon after enlistment, and the system of inoculation has been extended to the Militia Forces during the three months camp training period. A canteen service also has been established for the welfare of troops at home and abroad. 
Since December last much has been done towards the achievement of the Government's aim to complete the Air Force development programme by June of this year, twelve months ahead of the date originally intended, and to recruit and train air crews in accordance with the scale agreed upon as our contribution to the Empire air training scheme. To make our programme safe of achievement, the War Cabinet decided yesterday to  place  further orders in the United States of America for 49 Lockheed Hudson reconnaissance bombers, together with spare engines and a range of spare parts,  kc.  This  will have the dual purpose of further strengthening our home defence squadrons, and at tlie same time making available Avro Anson aircraft for training purposes in connexion with the Empire air training scheme. Eighteen of the Hudsons will be allocated for the equipment of an additional general reconnaissance squadron, and the balance will be used for the re-equipment of squadrons from which the Ansons are withdrawn. The total cost of this order will be £2,277,000. 
Many Hudson aircraft have arrived in Australia, and have been allotted to squadrons, and the Air Board has expressed itself completely satisfied with the performance of the Hudsons  already  in service. Our participation in the Empire scheme entails the building up of a vast training organization capable of fulfilling our commitments. This great expansion involves the solution of many serious problems of organization, personnel, supply, maintenance and works. To ensure the successful completion of the task, some measure of re-organization of the Air Force was considered necessary, and the two principal changes decided upon were the reconstitution of the Air Board in order to enable it to deal more efficiently with the problems mentioned, and the formation of area commands. The main changes in the Air Board were the appointment of Air Chief Marshal  Sir Charles  Burnett, as Chief of the Air Staff, the creation of an additional member for supply and production, and a re-distribution of duties among members. As an additional measure of decentralization to allow the staff of Air Force Head-quarters to concentrate upon questions of major policy, units of the service have been organized into four areas, namely, southern area, comprising all units in Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania and Southern Riverina ; central area, which will be composed of units of central New South "Wales; northern area, which will be composed of units of northern New South Wales, Queensland, Northern Territory and Papua; and western area, to include all units in Western Australia. The medical organization of the Royal Australian Air Force has been expanded to such an extent that it has been decided to separate it from army control, while at the same time providing machinery for coordination between the Navy, Army and Air Force. 
A recruiting organization comprising centres at the capital cities, and nine of the larger country towns, has been established. Air crows for entry into training establishments for at least six months ahead of the programme, have been selected and placed upon a waiting list, to be called up as additional schools are opened. Voluntary recruiting committees have been formed in each State, and are conducting a campaign to ensure that the response will continue to be satisfactory. It is worthy of note that at the outbreak of war the total strength of the 
Royal Australian Air Force was approximately 3,500, whereas it now numbers over 9,000. 
Due to the heavy demands of industry and of the other services upon the fitting trades, schools of technical training have been formed at Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne, where- recruits are being trained to the standard of trade efficiency required for entry to the engineering school. Since early in December of  last  year, the following new Air Force establishments have been formed,  although  some are not yet fully developed : - Six recruiting centres; three recruiting depots; three schools of technical training; one engineering school; two elementary flying training schools; one armament school; one seaplane training flight, and one equipment depot. 
Under the Empire air training scheme a large number of additional flying instructors will be required. The training of flying instructors was taken in hand some months ago with the result, that our immediate and future requirements are now assured. Instructors in specialist subjects also are being trained rapidly. Certain deficiencies of specialist instructors are being supplied by the Royal Air Force, some of whom have arrived already in the country, and have been absorbed by the training organization. Elementary and service training establishments also have been working to capacity, and trained pilots are becoming available in sufficient numbers to meet the demands for new service and training units to be formed under the programme. Full advantage has been taken of the facilities for flying training offered by civil aviation companies, and of the services of skilled civil flying instructors in organizing' the elementaryflying training of pupil pilots. The claims of home defence units have not been neglected and the plan for the full development programme for home defence is well under way. Number 10 Squadron, the nucleus of which was overseas at the outbreak of war, has been brought up to its full establishment of men and equipment, and is now employed with similar squadrons of the Royal Air Force upon active service flying operations. 
As announced, it has been decided to send one Army Co-operation squadron overseas for Army Co-operation duties with the Australian Imperial Force. A squadron is available now, and it is expected that this unit will be despatched in the near future. Nearly all of the 100 Hudson aircraft previously ordered from abroad have reached Australia or are  en route  and the local production of Wirraways is proceeding satisfactorily. The rearmament of service squadrons with these types of aircraft, and the consequent conversion courses for the crews are well under way. Light training type aircraft also are being delivered in adequate numbers to meet our present needs. Apart from the work upon training, which comprises such a large part of our effort, mention should be made of the operational duties undertaken by the service squadrons. Patrols, to ensure the safety of shipping in coastal waters in co-operation with the Navy, ave regularly carried out. To assist in safeguarding the passage of the first convoy while in Australian  waters,  the Royal Australian Air Force patrolled areas totalling nearly half a. million square miles. 
Finally, I wish to inform honorable senators something concerning the activities of the Department of Supply and Development. When Parliament adjourned in December this department was adapting the normal processes -of private industry to  the  new demands of war. The problem before it was very different from that which the old Department of Defence faced in 1914.' Then the problem was one of recruiting men, and of sending them away with the barest essentials. The task we have undertaken now is to provide the full personnel and equipment o.f a modern mechanized army. Twentyfive years ago we were sending men away to help munition-making in England. To-day we are sending the munitions themselves, and not only for our own troops, but also for the three fighting services in Europe and in other parts of the Empire. Nevertheless, and although the actual production and supply to date has been on a scale which would have astounded our predecessors of twenty-five years ago, the work of the last .six months has been chiefly preparatory for larger production still to come. It is not pos- .sible in these days to launch an enterprise in modern manufacture very quickly. As honorable senators1 are aware, it is not uncommon for a period of two years or more to be used in active preparation before a single unit of output is produced. Modern armaments are highly complex products, demanding the finest degree of precision at all stages. Men and machines have to be trained and made. Elaborate foundations and structures need to be devised. These processes have been the main' pre-occupation of the department, concurrently with the actual production and securing of other supplies. The Government's own factories have been enlarged and extended, and some 25 annexes to private establishments have been or are being constructed and equipped. The chief purpose of these annexes is to produce munitions for our own defence in Australia, in the quantities that would be needed if war visited our own coasts, but already our output is such that we are using some of them for oversea purposes. More will be coming into production in the near future and the whole system is very well advanced. 
Recently the Government established an Aircraft Production Commission to bake care of the construction programme now before us. The programme is doubtless the most ambitious part of the whole supply plan, and it is doubtful if any country  has  attempted to do mom in i-.ela.tion to its resources and experience. No small part of the problem of all this war production is that of skilled craftsmen. As time .goes on, this part of our problem will become more .apparent. Our .capacity to train mcn to cope with the technical aspects of munitions .and aircraft will .certainly determine our supply capacity. The training schemes now commencing are limited by the facilities available and procurable, in a world .all of which is demanding the same thing, as for example, precision machine tools. Australian capacity to produce these things is being mobilized to the utmost. In all of these efforts the Government has had to pay regard to any disturbances to civil industry ,and employment, and to its supplies. The .disturbances hav.e been remarkably slight, considering the magnitude of the task. An example of this policy will be found in the labour dilution plans recently approved by tlie engineering unions. thi Government has had to select the -work and the programmes on which  concentration  would be most effective.. It- kas- not launched out in every direction and dissipated1 energies' and resources1. It. has pursued a policy directed to achieve the most important and effective: results;. 
I have occupied some- time-,1 but I consider that honorable senators should? be given- full information of these- activities during the .period that the Senate h*» been in recess. The d'c termination of the Allies- to win this- war and' to' establish a just  and  lasting peace has not abated in the least since the conflict began, and I am pmu! to say- that Australia is playing ite part with vigour, skill ami resolution. 
With the terms, of  Senator Wilson's  motion the- members- of the Opposition heartily agree,, although. I shall have something to say later concerning the speech delivered by him.. At the moment, I propose to deal with certain subjects in. a general way;, but I stress the. point that, the members of the Opposition do not underestimate in the slightest degree the Government's responsibilities and difficulties. For our- part&gt; we ai:e prepared to accept all the responsibilities and difficulties which the present situation, requires us- to accept, and to discharge those responsibilities so far as is possible. This party- has declared, its defence policy, and has consistently given its. support tff. the' defence activities of the Government. The Government began somewhat belatedly, in spite of the warnings issued by this party long before, it apparently believed that there- was any need to act* and it has not yet overtaken national, needs.. We have just heard a statement, read by the Leader of the Senate ('Sena tor McLeay), which is merely a rehash- of what we- have already read in* the press. We have- received very little information either as to what the Government  is doing or as to what is- really happening on the other side of the world. Generally speaking, the members of this National Parliament have to accept such statements and allegations as the press sees: lit to make available to- them. I. again direct- the attention of the Leader of the Senate to the fact that- the northern part of this great continent is still in the main, very largely undefended, although it is undoubtedly the most vulnerable part of the Commonwealth. 
The members of the Labour party have been chided' because they have refused to become a part of a so-called national government. We have refused because we doubt the efficiency of a government consisting of two  incompatibles,  -and we, therefore,, doubt the wisdom of increasing its incompatibility by adding another incompatible to the mixture. We believe that, apart from; the insincere offer made by the Government and' its supporters in this1 Parliament, there is little if any public support' for such a proposal. When honorable senators opposite suggest that the Opposition' should co-operate in a so-called national government, they do so with their- tongues in their cheeks because they believe that' they can make political capital out of the fact that we refuse' to sink our identity by joining the unholy combination. On: many occasions wo have said  that  we- can contribute a greater measure of assistance to the Government by remaining' a separate entity. From my contact with- leading men in the business walks of life in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria-, I firmly believe that the people of this country consider that a' vigorous opposition in both branches of the Common-wealth Parliament is- the nation's greatest essential at the moment. The people recognize that the OPpO. sit,ion which represents the Australian Labour party, provides a great safeguard in this-1 time of nacional emergency. I admit that th&amp; Government has a  policy;  it would he a poor government if it had. not. It has a defence policy, some features of which we have heard elaborated to-day in a statement by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay).  We, on the Opposition side, also have a policy, for we have been units in the great organization that has built up that policy over the last half-century. We have a policy, and a continuous one, which we believe to he essential,  not only in wartime, but also in times of peace. We have by our training, experience and capacity a policy which we are determined to implement, if and when we are called upon to do so. 
Although we have pledged ourselves, in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, to assist the Government in bringing this war to a. successful conclusion, is it to be claimed that because of that pledge we have surrendered our right to criticize the methods adopted by the Government and its various departments in putting its policy into effect? Is it seriously suggested, as was done yesterday by  Senator Wilson,  that because we have the courage to say that The best administrative and legislative action has not been taken to implement the policy of the Government, and that something more effective towards securing 'the end for which we all hope might have- been achieved, we should be accused of disloyalty, or of association with those who want to see the Allies lose this war? I submit that there is nothing to support such a suggestion in any situation- that has arisen since September, 1938, when the Government first awakened to the fact that a cloud then no bigger than a man's hand had at least serious portents. The Opposition has not failed in a single instance to afford the Government the fullest support on the floor of this chamber. It has never cavilled at the amount of money said to be required to give effect to what the Government has considered to be necessary measures. We have suggested safeguards. We have recommended that money should not be expended in such a way that good value will not be obtained for it. We have suggested that there should be no profiteering. We have asked that every precaution should be taken to protect our citizens in their everyday life, and to uphold their civil liberties, but we have never asked that one pound should be deducted from the sums which the Government, through its expert advisers, has deemed to be necessary to carry on the war. 
The Opposition is fighting a war on two fronts. We are trying to help the Government to fight the external war, and we are also doing our best to wage  the  internal war which is ever on. We are appealing to the Government constantly, and we do so mostly in vain, to help us to carry on the internal war; but the Government has never appealed to us in vain for help in carrying on the external fight, which for the moment is of paramount importance. The Opposition is fighting a great and fundamentally necessary war, so far as Australia and the needs of its people are concerned, when it wages a fight against economic insecurity, poverty, unemployment, low wages and evil industrial conditions. Because at this juncture we refuse to abate any of our energy and enthusiasm in the waging of the internal war, again I ask whether we are to be accused- of failure to implement the pledge that we have so often repeated in this chamber regarding the external war. Are we to be accused of disloyalty to the Empire, and of being unfaithful to our own pledges? We hear much said on the other side of the chamber of the need for national unity and the sinking of party differences. If honorable senators opposite are in earnest in their remarks regarding the war overseas, they should discontinue the methods all too frequently adopted by them in their speeches on this subject. The Labour  party,  which the Opposition represents in this chamber, is not alone in waging the internal war. I shall quote very briefly from the Brisbane  Telegraph  a speech delivered by Archbishop Duhig on the 14th April last. Nobody will accuse that ecclesiastical dignitary or his people of failing to do their part in the prosecution of this war. As many followers of his religious faith and of the nationality from which the people of that faith largely spring will be found in the different theatres of war on this occasion as in the last war; I say that with conviction, although I neither belong to that faith nor come from the country to which I allude. This is what Archbishop Duhig said - 
While it is generally admitted that in our time a great deal has been done to improve the conditions of tlie worker, he is still, generally speaking, left with that awful heritage of his class, the spectre of uncertainty and want. If we could only eliminate unemployment and assure to the worker a fair and constant wage providing him against seasons of sickness and those unexpected domestic crises which so often come to upset family happiness and security, we would be putting thu crown on the endeavour of all the good men who have ever laboured for tlie emancipation of the poor and tlie rights of labour, and we would be likewise crowning ail the legislation that has been made for this excellent end. ... It seems to me that this inequality can be removed only in one way, that is by the institution of child or family endowment - a subject on which I have before spoken at length in another phi.ee, and which is, I believe, operating in some parts of "this country. It would undoubtedly cost much to inaugurate it, but when we consider all that is now paid away in old-age pensions, the dole and rations for unemployed, &amp;c, much of which might bo saved by means of" family endowment, if is, I think, a measure well worthy of consideration by any government or any country. 
find nothing in the Governor-General's Speech having any bearing on the evil effects of the internal war, and no suggestion that would lead me to believe that His Excellency would accuse the members of the Opposition of conduct that is discreditable at this juncture, merely because we say that the internal war must be fought, and that we intend to continue to fight it. 
The Government talks of having kept down the prices of commodities, and of having prevented the cost of living from rising, but do honorable senators believe that? I do not know what the daily experience of honorable senators is, but I cannot understand how they could conceive the idea that the Government has kept down the cost of living. They must, know, as every working-class housewife is aware to her distress, that the cost of living is going up by leaps and bounds. [ shall refer to certain prices given in a printed document, and applying to the town of Manly, which is situated in the constituency represented in this Parliament by the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender).  On the 31st August last, the date from which the Government declared that no increase of prices could take place without the consent of the Price3 Commissioner, the cost of tea in Manly was l.s. Hid. per lb., but I find that ^to-day it is 2s. 5d. per lb. Bacon shoulders, which were sold in Manly on the 31st August last at 11½d.  per lb., to-day cost ls. 4d. per lb. Potatoes on that date were l£d. per lb., and to-day they are  2½d.  per lb. 
The honorable senator will probably be at a loss to tell me why dried apricots, which are produced in vast quantities in this country, cost lOd. per lb. in Manly on the 31st August last, and to-day cost ls. 3d. per lb. Lamb chops, which were lOd. per lb., are now ls. 3d. per lb. The price of veal cutlets rose from 7£d. to  9½d.,  dripping from 4£ to 6d., porter-house steak from lOd. to ls. 2d., rump steak from ls. Id. to ls. 4d., fillet steak from ls. 4d. to ls. Sd., and cutlets from l£d. to 2£d. each. The prices of fish, of which we have teeming millions in our seas, also rose considerably. That of filleted  flathead  increased from ls. to ls. 9d., filleted bream from ls. to ls. 9d., filleted mullet from lOd. to ls. 6d., leather jackets from 6d. to 9d., and smoked haddock from ls. Id. to ls. 4£d. The prices of fruit and vegetables increased on an average by about 3d. in every shilling, and the prices of clothing, boots and shoes showed an average increase of 20 per cent. 
I have not the prices of butter and bread before me, but I know that a regulation has been gazetted prescribing that a soldier, an employee of the Defence Department in this clay of national need, who commits an offence against military discipline shall be deprived of a portion of his butter ration and given margarine as a substitute. 
I read in to-day's  Canberra Times  that the petrol tax may be increased by 3d. a gallon. That paper forecasts that the budget will announce a substantial rise of the duty on petrol. I do not know how that or any other newspaper is aware of what the budget will contain, but I do know that members of Parliament are denied such knowledge, whilst our experience shows that press forecasts on these matters always prove fairly correct. Our newspapers seem to have access to Cabinet secrets, but we, the representatives of the people, are refused knowledge of many matters which the Government has under consideration. Whilst we did not know the date on which Parliament was to re-assemble, the newspaper forecast of that date proved to be correct. I admit that the Government's proposal to increase the duty on petrol will have the effect of rationing petrol, but it will not mean rationing to the big fellow, the man who has a high-powered car which he uses for pleasure. He will be able to afford the extra 3d. a gallon. Neither will thi3 increase mean rationing of petrol to the big business man, to whom another increase of 3d. a gallon is only a mere bagatelle compared with the profits he is able to make in his business. But this additional imposition will inflict untold hardship on unfortunate people at the bottom of the social scale, whose motor cars are out of date and badly equipped but none the less essential to their owners in order to enable them to make a living. I refer to fruit-hawkers and pedlars, and other classes of people who cannot exist unless they can afford to buy sufficient petrol to run their motor vehicles. This applies also to the small business owned by one man who operates it either alone or with the help of one or two employees. This additional imposition will severely hit people of those classes. 
I propose now to refer to a matter which I have raised in this chamber on previous occasions. Parliament adjourned amidst one of the most disgraceful scenes of hurry and bustle and neglect of duty on the Sth December last, and we were called together again four months later, on the 17th April. I and every honorable member of the Opposition believe - and we have been frequently told that the Government holds the same belief - that this country is in danger, that the conflict on the other side of the world is growing daily more dangerous. Does the Government really believe that? If it does, what justification can it give for keeping Parliament in recess for four months? No other parliaments in the Empire have been kept in recess during that period for any lengthy time. The British Parliament has been in session almost continuously and has held more than one secret session to enable members to acquaint themselves with what is happening. Except for a dissolution for the purpose of an election, the Canadian 
Parliament also has been sitting almost constantly, and the people's representatives have been kept advised as to what was going on;, and the moves which the Government considered essential and had under consideration. Similarly the parliament of South Africa and that of our sister dominion in the Pacific have been kept continuously in session. It remains f or the National Parliament of Australia, under the control of perfervid patriots who never tire of slandering this Opposition concerning our attitude towards the war, to find it essential to keep Parliament in recess and to gag the people of this continent by closing the mouths of their parliamentary representatives, and, in spite of its Department of Information and its Department of External Affairs, to keep the people in ignorance of all matters of importance pertaining to the war. 
I shall now refer briefly to this Government's abuse of the Executive's power to make regulations. Any government must possess certain defence powers. This Government possesses such powers and, unless I misunderstand them, they are as complete as any defence powers enjoyed by any government within the British Empire. But those powers are not sufficient for this Government. It may be true that in certain exigencies such powers might be insufficient to enable the Government to deal with defence matters effectively, but it cannot be said that this Government was justified in taking to itself under section 18 of the National Security Act, the power to abrogate any law already enacted in this country, and then at the same time to keep Parliament in recess for a period of four months, in the meantime pouring forth a flood of regulations,, some of which constitute a very serious interference with the civil liberties and rights of the people of this continent. I take the following quotation from a Melbourne paper of the 29th February : - 
We need hardly point out that these vast powers make it possible to suppress not merely revolutionary propagandists or disaffected persons, but any one. uttering a criticism in matters of policy which the Government chooses to resent. It may be held rightly enough that no Australian government is likely to apply sich a law with anything like totalitarian rigour; but instances quoted recently in one of our weekly journals show that the petty harrying and questioning of citizens by officials has already begun; and, if the nascent evil is not checked, it may well prove tlie beginning of a veritable persecution. As  Mr. Justice  Evatt has reminded us, the present Constitution of Australia affords no safeguard whatever against the invasion of our liberties in this fashion. 
At a meeting of the Empire Parliamentary Association this morning, we heard a speech which none of us will ever forget. If there was one note higher than another in that inspired address, it was the declaration that we still have the right to possess our own souls, our own bodies and our own consciences. But things are being done under the defence powers possessed by the Government in this time of national emergency which nullify that principle; and they are being done in such a way that if we are not careful, when the war is over, as we all hope it will be soon, and victoriously for us, wo shall find that it has been fought largely in vain, for the very evil which we are striving to defeat abroad will have been established in Australia. Because of that risk the Opposition is not prepared to merge itself with the party opposite, and to relinquish our sacred responsibility here as the walch dogs of the nation. 
Before I deal directly with the GovernorGeneral's Speech I shall refer briefly to the speeches made last night by  Senator Wilson  and  Senator Abbott,  the mover and seconder respectively of the Address.inReply. I have respect for  Senator Wilson,  but I believe that at least some of his language was ill-considered, and unnecessary and unworthy. He used the word's, " the most proficient liar and coldblooded murderer the world has . ever seen ". 
I believe that tlie honorable senator's language was illadvised, and also that much of the remainder of his speech, which be directed to members of the Opposition - while be pointed at us an accusing finger - and some of his remarks were directed personally to me - was both destructive and' provocative. 
That interjection is further evidence of  Senator Wilson's  utter incapacity to sink that difference of feeling which he suggested last night should be sunk in this chamber. With much of the speech of  Senator Abbott  I wholeheartedly agree. With some of his remarks I do not agree, but the whole of  Senator Abbott's  speech was persuasive and constructive. It was a worthwhile contribution to the subject before the chamber, and revealed a constructive mind capable of visualizing the situation, abroad; it eloquently portrayed what the honorable senator considered necessary for the successful carrying on of the war. In addition, it also disclosed a mind receptive to the  needs of the new world which we hope fervently will emerge from the terrible conflict now in progress. In the one speech, there was nothing but provocation and destructive criticism; the other was an eloquent, persuasive and constructive address. I am prepared to credit  Senator Wilson  with having no evil intent. Probably he is suffering from fear, and not without very good cause.  His  world cannot go on much longer; our world - the world of the people we represent in this chamber - cannot continue much longer as it exists today. I have often declared in this chamber that there must be a new order of society, externally and internally, and a new world based on a better foundation of righteousness and justice. I have often warned honorable senators opposite, and [ warn  Senator Wilson  again this afternoon that to-day his profits are in jeopardy; to-morrow it will be his capital, and, before long, unless we can bring both the external and internal wars to a successful conclusion, the very lives of those people who represent vested interests - the profiteers and exploiters - will be in danger from those who are dispossessed of all things that make life worth while. Yet it is from that class of people that volunteers for military service are coming. 1 am proud of that. It is from the homes of the workers, from the fields, the factories, the mines and the workshops, that young men are responding to the call for help. But do not forget that when the external war is over, these young men will come back with a new orientation. and a determination never again to submit to the evils that exist to-day. They will demand a better order and a change of system. 
I listened very attentively to the Governor-General's Speech, and I shall refer briefly to a few of the paragraphs in it. In paragraph 3 will be found the following words : -  . . Not only the most active measures possible for ensuring the local Defence and security of Australia but also a full participation in the naval, military and air activities of the Allied forces abroad. 
I hope I shall not be accused of doing something that I should not do - nothing is further from my desire - when I ask whether the Government is prepared to tell us, through the medium of the Leader of the Senate, what the final alinement of the European nations, and for that matter the Asiatic nations, will be. I am of the opinion that the Leader of the Government does not know what the final alinement will be. I am also of the opinion that he does not know any more than does the Government what the alinement of nations will be this time tomorrow, because it is changing rapidly. I should like to know, therefore, what is meant by the words " full participation ". I realize, but apparently the Government does not, that if events continue to develop as they are now developing, every available unit of Australian man-power will be required to defend this country in the Pacific in co-operation with our sister Dominion of New Zealand. Once again I ask - what is the import of the words " full participation " ? Will the Leader of the Senate or some other representative of the Government, inform honorable senators how Australia can keep up to the demands and the needs of primary production and factory output if the man-power of this country is to be continuously depleted by the sending of forces overseas? How will it be possible to live up to the Prime Minister's slogan, " Business as usual " ? How shall we provide the primary producers with the labour which they require to sow and reap their crops which are so urgently needed, both here and in other parts of the world ? 
I am merely asking some questions relating to matters which  Senator Wilson  has obviously overlooked, or which he is incapable of fully understanding. Once again,  I ask the Leader of the Government will somebody in this chamber stand in his place and give honorable senators an explanation of the pregnant words, " full participation ". That is all I ask. To  Senator Wilson  who inquires what we on this side of the chamber say, or what our policy is, I say that we are not the Government. When the time comes, and we are called upon to implement our policy, I promise that we shall be able to give full effect to a policy for the people of this continent, which will be just as effective abroad, and curative at home, as anything that this Government has yet attempted. That is not an idle boast; it is a definite promise. 
I notice also that in His Excellency's speech, there is a very eloquent allusion to the splendid response for volunteers for military service abroad.* It states - 
My advisers have noted with keen appreciation the splendid response which is lining made by the young men of Australia to the call of national service. 
I hope that honorable senators opposite have carefully noted that splendid response. In view of some actions which have been taken under the powers of the National Security Act, and other special defence legislation, I ask the Government to admit that the response by the young manhood of Australia to recruiting appeals has been so generous that it has caused great embarrassment to the Defence 'authorities, which even to-day are unable to make full use of the services which we on this side of the chamber knew well would be offered. Once again Labour's policy is justified; it has always been our contention that there is no need for compulsion in matters such as this. 
Paragraph 5 of the Speech contains the following words : - 
Employment was but little affected by the first impact of war and both employment and incomes have since risen to higher levels. 
I ask the Leader of the Government to submit some justification for that statement. It is well known "that the Governor- 
General did not draft hia Speech.  His  delivery of it is merely one of the pleasant fictions of parliamentary procedure; it is a tradition which I do not think does any harm. In fact, I rather enjoyed the ceremony yesterday because such functions take one's mind off the seriousness of the situation, and add to the gaiety of proceedings. But I repeat that I should like some evidence of the statement that employment was little affected by the first impact of the war and that both employment and incomes have since risen to higher levels. I submit that the Government has made  His Excellency  say something for which there is little or no foundation. I demand to know what is meant by that statement, in order that [ and my colleagues may pass the information on to our electors. We would like to be in a position to tell those who have sent us here just whose incomes have risen and  where greater employment has been given. During the past few months, while not touring the State in which I live, I was continuously in attendance at my office in the Federal Members' Rooms, Brisbane. There I, and many of my colleagues, were besieged continuously by harrowing appeals for employment, mainly from men whose sole opportunity foi- work was 011 the waterfront. Thousands of them could not get work, and they came and asked us to help them. Other inquiries were principally from nien whose sole occupations are those of storemen and packers. One man came to me and asked if I could get him a storeman and packer's ticket, because if he bad the ticket he could obtain work. Accordingly, I rang the secretary of the Storemen and Packers Union. He said " We would like to do it but we have 300 men on the unemployed list. Come up and see our unemployment room any morning after 9 o'clock ". And those are the men for whom, according to the GovernorGeneral's Speech, employment has been increased ! Actually there is serious! unemployment in the building trades. In Queensland and in every other part of Australia, including the National Capital, building construction men are out of work. This afternoon I asked some questions of Ministers in this chamber about building work to be undertaken with money that is to be made available for expenditure in the Australian Capital Territory. Those questions were not answered. There u need for great building activity in the National Capital, yet nothing is being done to give relief to those people who depend for a living entirely upon building construction. I and my colleagues, when we are in the capital cities of the States, are besieged every day by parents who, after making great sacrifices to give their children the advantages of the wonderful educational opportunities in our high schools and colleges, have been unable to find employment for them. 
Honorable senators opposite know, as we know, that employment is not available. I listened attentively while  His Excellency  was reading paragraph 6 of his Speech. Afterwards I obtained a copy of the Speech and read it. If the situation were not so tragic I should have been inclined to laugh at the promises contained in that portion of the document. I hope that  Senator Abbott  will pay close attention to my remarks under this head, because,I assure the honorable gentleman that we  an  this side are taking this war seriously. We do not regard it as a game. We want to win this war as well as the industrial fight of which I have spoken, and we want to be sure that we are listened to by those who carry the responsibility of administering the nation's war effort. Paragraph fi of the Speech reads - 
My advisers have given full consideration to the problem of financing the huge costs of war. They are convinced that, while a liberal and modern approach must be made to it, there is no easy path to be followed. They are resolved to avoid the evils of monetary inflation, since it imposes unjust and inequitable financial burdens, particularly upon the wage and salary earner, destroys public confidence, is destructive of savings and would lead inevitably, if pursued, to financial collapse and post-war depression .... 
That reads beautifully. Its construction is good. It flows easily from the tongue, lt embraces within its ambit of sympathy the wage-earners, the people with savings, the investors and the rest of the country's financial interests. It brings them all in. But I would like to know if this policy, which the Government assures us it is now adopting, was tried in 1914-18 ? Was there inflation in those war years? Will the Leader of the Senate answer these questions when he makes his contribution to this debate? Inflation seems to be a blessed word, like " Mesopotamia ". It is  intended to strike terror into the hearts of people who do not understand its meaning. Surely it is clear that if we do not have inflation, we shall have deflation. The Government assures us that it does not intend to have inflation during this war. But it is a government of the same political colour, it approves the same old policy and it tells the same bed-time stories in times of emergency, as the Government that was in office during the last war. Did the people of this country experience inflation then? Is there not inflation of prices to-day? And since there is inflation already, can we expect, later, to escape deflation and post-war depression? The Government knows that deflation and another depression are inevitable. This nation cannot blow countless millions of money into the air for destructive purposes' and avoid paying for it afterwards. We have a population of only 7,000,000 people, and yet we are paying out £1,000,000 every week to meet interest bills on our obligations. Is the Government doing anything about that? It boasts, in  His  Excellency's Speech, that it intends to continue its efforts " to effectuate its policy of low public and private interest rates". What is the lowest rate of which the Government can boast to-day ? Has it come down to 3 per centyet? Perhaps it may try to bring the rate to that level a little later, but I want to know when it will tell the big financial interests the same harrowing story about a condition of emergency that it is continually retailing to the poorer classes in Australia. We do not deny the truth of that story. We agree that a condition of national emergency exists, but we contend that the greatest burden should be placed upon those who are making a profit out of this war - the big financial interests of this country. If I were Prime Minister of Australia I would outline the financial policy of my government, and, whatever else that policy might contain, it at least would declare to the financial interests that the most they would get for their liquid assets, if they were paid at all, would be  1$  per cent, or 2 per cent., and if the nation's need became greater, I would confiscate 20s. in the £1 over and above those amounts of the profits which the financial interests considered to be a fair basic wage for members of the working class. Is this Government prepared to introduce a wealth tax and to confiscate the great surpluses of the predatory, wealthy interests of this country? Of course not! The Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, a highly-salaried official with a big staff, has not stabilized prices ; he has merely stabilized profits. 
I come now to that part of  His  Excellency's Speech which mentions that many thousands of Australian workmen are on strike. The Government has stated its own case. There is another side to this dispute. My colleague,  Senator Ashley,  to-day asked a question relating to this matter. It was a very simple inquiry, and there should have been no difficulty at all in answering it or, if there were difficulty, an officer could have been despatched immediately to the Prime Minister to obtain a reply.  Senator Ashley  asked if the same facilities will be given to the miners to state their case over the national broadcasting stations as will be afforded to the Prime Minister when he visits Kurri Kurri during this weekend to speak to the miners. The Minister said he did not know what arrangements would be made. The Australian Labour party stands for arbitration and conciliation. I support that policy with all the sincerity that I can command. I happen to be one of those older men in the Labour movement who can remember the time when there were no arbitration courts, no conciliation commissions, no wages boards and no means to regulate industrial conditions. I, with others of similar age, set to work and built up the Labour party's policy of industrial conciliation and arbitration to what it is to-day. Therefore I stand whole-heartedly for it. When an appeal was made to the Queensland Parliamentary Labour party in connexion with this dispute the Premier replied : " Arbitration and conciliation is the policy of this Government ". What is this new-found love of industrial arbitration which  Senator Wilson  mouthed in this chamber last night? How long has he been a convert to this policy? Is it not true to say that he was a supporter of an earlier Commonwealth Government which appealed to the people to abolish Commonwealth arbitration; and is it nottrue that for the first time in the history of this country a Prime Minister was defeated in his own electorate? 
The Prime Minister could have ended this, strike weeks ago had he wished to do so. That is no idle statement. Tt is a. statement of fact. The right honorable gentleman could have called into operation the conciliation powers of the court for use in such circumstances, but he has not done so. I do not know what are his intentions, but I say very definitely and with all respect that I do not believe that he, or the party which he represents, wants to settle this strike. 
I accept full responsibility for it and I am prepared, if necessary, to repeat it personally to the Prime Minister. The AttorneyGeneral, who is administering the industrial laws of this country, said : " I have tried to settle this dispute, but I have not found the employers in the industry helpful in my efforts to bring it to a conclusion". I go further and say that I believe that supporters' of the Government, with some exceptions, have no more desire to settle this dispute than has the Prime Minister. . Judging by the attitude of Government supporters, one might imagine that never before in the history of Australia had there been a strike while a war was in progress. The coal strike and the activities of the Communist party in Australia are the greatest political allies which honorable senators opposite possess, and they are making full use of them in their attempts to engineer the defeat of the Labour party at the next election. I do not believe that their efforts will be successful. I hope that the strike will be settled. I know that the Prime Minister would ask, "Do you expect me to instruct the court?" The Labour party does not expect that, but it demands that the Prime Minister shall indicate to the people of Australia, who include members of the court, that he wants the strike settled. The Prime Minister knows, as we know, that it can be settled in this way. Do honorable senators opposite think that tens of thousands of men would go out on strike merely for the sake of being idle? How many honorable senators opposite have been into the bowels of the earth and witnessed the conditions under which the coal-miners have to work ? Have they ever been into the homes of the miners and chatted with the wives of the workers or seen the conditions under which families have to live? What do they know concerning the daily lives of the men who are seeking improved industrial conditions? 
Does  Senator Dein  suggest that thousands of men have ceased work merely for the fun of it? Surely he realizes that there is another side of the case, and that the public does not know all the facts. I have already said that the members of the Australian Labour party support conciliation and arbitration. The Prime Minister has the power to set the necessary machinery in operation to terminate this unfortunate industrial dispute. He declines to do so because a big industrial upheaval is his best political ally. How he delights to tell the people that in a national emergency the coal-miners have gone on strike, and that it is the fault of the Labour party. 
I know a good deal concerning conciliation and arbitration. I was associated with wages boards and other industrial tribunals long before honorable senators opposite had any interest in arbitration. I state most definitely that the predecessors of the supporters of the present Government did everything possible to prevent industrialists from receiving the benefit of conciliation and arbitration or improved working conditions. The political predecessors of honorable senators opposite have from the time when Lord Shaftesbury introduced the Reform Bill in England actively participated in a policy to prevent the introduction and functioning of a workable arbitration system, and by that policy have compelled the workers to face starvation and social ostracism.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan suggests that I know nothing of our arbitration system. 
If I did so the honorable senator would not be more conversant with the position than he now is. 
I now wish to refer briefly to the subject of communism. Every Labour member of the Federal Parliament has to sign the following pledge :  - 
I,...... '...... hereby pledge myself notto oppose the candidate selected by the recognized political Labour organization, and, if elected, to do my utmost to carry out the principles embodied in the Australian Labour party's platform, and on all questions affecting the platform to vote as a majority of the parliamentary party may decide at a duly constituted caucus meeting. I hereby declare that I am not a member of a Communist organization or party, or of any political party having objects and methods in any way opposed to the Australian Labour party. 
That pledge has to be signed before any person can become a candidate for election, quite apart from becoming a member of the Australian Labour party. In addition every Labour party in any part of the British Dominions has banned Communists from membership of the party. No member of the Australian Labour party can be a member of a Communist organization, and no member of the Communist party can become or remain a member of the Labour party. Those are the facts. 
It is most remarkable that honorable senators opposite have a greater knowledge of the activities of the Communist party and a closer acquaintance with individual members of that party than have any other members of the community. We are continually told that the Australian Labour party is closely associated with the Com munist party. Although those who make the statement know that they are not stating facts they keep on repeating them. I have already said that honorable senators opposite and those with whom they are associated are using the coal strike and communism merely for political purposes. Action is not taken by the Government against Communists because they are useful in its dirty political work of attempting to defeat the political aspirations of the Australian Labour party.  Senator Wilson,  by interjection, mentioned the names of two persons whom I have never met. I do not suppose that he has ever met them, but he says that they are Communists, and are associated with our political activities. I remind  Senator Wilson  that industrial unions are formed, not for political purposes, but in order to protect the industrial rights of their members'. We have no right to inquire as to the political faith of those seeking membership and we do not do so. 
Here again the honorable senator displays knowledge which astounds me. I have stated previously in this chamber when some of my friends opposite have been waving a blue book, others a red book, some a Communist weekly and . another the  Tribune,  that it is most remarkable that those honorable gentlemen opposite should be so closely acquainted with the working and activities of 'the Communist party. I have been associated with the Labour movement for 50 years, and for fourteen years conducted organizing work in Queensland where Communists are not associated with the Labour party. I was amused last night when  Senator Wilson,  in reply to an interjection, " What about the Corio by-election?", madeby an honorable senator on this side of the chamber, almost tearfully asked if the debate could not be conducted on a higher plane. The honorable senator appeared so earnest that I began to wonder if a colleague of mine could have been responsible.  Senator Wilson  asked if we did not realize that a state of national emergency exists. He tried to make it appear that my colleague was a perfect rascal to interject as he did. 
But in the Melbourne  Age,  an antiLabour paper, of the 14th February last, the following paragraph appeared: - 
Tlie Prime Minister said lie was glad that the Leader of the Opposition had undertaken to fight the by-election on the issue of the Government's Defence policy. 
 It was the Prime Minister and not the  Age  newspaper which made that statement.  Mr. Curtin  did not say anything of the kind. He said that the by-election would be fought on the Government's Defence policy and all the other things which tlie Government was doing to which the Labour party was opposed. The Prime Minister went on to say - 
It was the issue, but no doubt, attempts would be made to introduce side issues which depended upon purely local factors. Everything to-day must be subsidiary to the task of winning the war - a war which had been approved as a just and necessary war by Government and Opposition alike. 
In other words the Prime Minister said that he would take the verdict of Corio as a test of approval or disapproval of the Government's Defence policy. That was unwise, because no experienced statesman ever stakes his all on one issue in a by-election. We are not claiming that Corio was won by the Labour party on the one issue; but when my colleague interjected concerning that by-election  Senator Wilson  became perturbed and suggested that the debate should be conducted on. a higher plane. In the impassioned appeals made yesterday by th: mover and seconder of the motion for tb adoption of tlie Address-in-Reply and by the Leader of the Senate to-day, reference was made to the fearful state of affairs confronting the world. We do not deny that; we have never denied it. I stated earlier that at all times we have cooperated with the Government in its defence policy but because we do so we should not be deprived of our right to criticize the Government's policy. Wc have never attempted to prevent the Government from getting the money necessary for defence purposes., and have not taken exception to its policy in that respect. When I hear of the- necessity to conduct the debate on a higher plane I am astounded. Honorable senators opposite, who have had the advantage of a better education, greater wealth and more social prestige than we have ever enjoyed, have been responsible for lower ing, instead of raising, the tone of the debate. The Government cannot persuade the people of this country that the position is so serious as it is while it continues to keep Parliament almost continually in recess. It cannot persuade us that it wants to conduct all its activities on the highest level when we realize that in March last it was engaged in sordid internal intrigue for political benefits at a time when the whole of its activities should have been devoted to assisting to win the war. During this sordid party intrigue members of the two parties now forming the Government were hurrying and scurrying between party  rooms  in an endeavour to bring about a coalition for their own personal benefit. Every cabinet post was up for sale at a time of national emergency. We on this side were the silent observers, but were powerless to lift the matter to a higher plane. Cabinet Ministers did not know from one half hour to the next whether they would retain their positions. The war paled into comparative insignificance during the sordid intrigue and struggle for the other fellow's job. Honorable senators opposite talk to the Opposition of lifting debates to a higher plane, although they have dragged political life into the sewer of intrigue. I say that advisedly. If proof he wanted- 
The honorable senator has listened to me patiently, and I know what a hard task it is, because he is one of the age-old opponents of every kind of reform which means the uplifting of society. I do not regard him as affording an example of how to reach a higher plane. 
The Speech of His Excellency the GovernorGeneral mainly deals with the war, the coal strike and communism. I omitted to say that under the present law the Government has all the power required to deal effectively with Communists. ' If it has not, it could take all necessary power under section 18 of the National Security Act, but it does not take action in this regard because it knows that Communists are of use to it politically. 
Paragraph 16 of His Excellency's Speech states - 
A bill will be introduced to make amendments to the electoral law. 
When the nation is engaged on the biggest struggle in our history, the Government and its supporters suggest that the Opposition represents the last word in disloyalty to the Empire! They never find anything of a congratulatory nature to say regarding the Opposition. They brought down a detailed account of all the troubles that confront them. I began my speech by saying that I understood the difficulties being experienced by the Government. I know something of the trouble to which my friend the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has gone in order to make arrangements for the orderly marketing and transportation abroad of millions of tons of primary products. I do not minimize the importance of this work, for I realize that some day I may be called upon to accept a share of the great responsibility which he and other members of the Cabinet have accepted and discharged to the best of their ability; but can they take pride in the fact that the only paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech that lias no relation to the war effort consists of a single line to the effect that a bill will be introduced to make amendments to the electoral law? For what purpose will that measure be brought down?  Senator Wilson,  at the beginning of his address, said that he would like to see a national government formed, with the Labour party represented in it. He wanted all petty differences put aside, so that all should do their best to bring the war effort to a successful conclusion. The way in which the Government proposes to settle petty differences is to introduce a bill to amend the electoral law! The measure will be a cunningly - I almost said cleverly - disguised one planned to make it more difficult for the common citizen, who has not had great educational advantages, to cast an effective vote, in the vain hope, I believe, that the number of informal votes will be increased to such an extent that the Labour party will be unable to gain control of the treasury bench. . 
Will this bill be introduced in order to place the Government at a disadvantage? Are Ministers such novices that they will cut their own political throats? The political throats proposed to be cut by this measure are those of honorable senators who sit on this side of the chamber. If I were prepared to indulge in the undignified practice of saying " I told you so ", I could go back over the political history of Australia for the last few months, and indicate the results of various by-elections in constituencies regarded as sacred to the opponents of Labour, at which supporters of the Government were  ignominously  defeated. The Premier of South Australia was one of those so defeated. All of the big guns were brought into these fights, but the people could not be deceived by them. 
I have done my best to lift this discussion to a high plane. At all events, I have made a sincere attempt to let the people know, as far as we are able to reach them, where the Labour party stands in this double-fronted war. We are determined to help the Government to win the external war, and we are just as anxious to ensure that, when the war is over, Australia shall have won the peace. 
I congratulate the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply upon their able speeches. I have also listened with interest to the case put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (SenatoCollings).  For a considerable time wehave been trying to find out what the Labour party's war policy really is, and I had hoped that this afternoon the Leader of the Opposition, would have told us, because there is no doubt that, when the Opposition faces the electors on the next occasion, it will not be able to put up the smoke screen used by the Leader of the Opposition this afternoon. I draw attention to certain references to the cost of living, unemployment, profiteering, &amp;c, and I say at the outset that many of the statements made, although true in some respects, were grossly exaggerated, having regard to the figures supplied from reliable sources. I suggest that the unemployment and cost-of-living figures furnished recently show that these matters have been carefully handled during the war, and that the country has benefited from the experience of the last war. The Leader of the Opposition has asked me&gt; to reply to certain points made by him in his speech. I do not propose to go into great detail, but I shall deal with the point raised by him at the close of his address, when he quoted from a certain little book. 1 did not notice whether the colour of the cover was red, white or blue, but he declared that every member of the Labour party had to sign a pledge that he was not a member of the Communist party. The agitation by the extremists in the Communist party is doing enormous harm to Australia, and much to retard our present war effort. I am amazed to find that, in spite of the decision that no Communist may be a member of the Labour party, at an important meeting of the Labour party in New South Wales, the "Hands off Russia " resolution was carried by an overwhelming majority. I am at a loss to reconcile that fact with the statement made this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition. I do not blame all sections of the Labour party, but I suggest to  Senator Collings,  and to other members of that party who exercise great political influence in this country, that if they want to help the Government in its war efforts they should have the courage of their convictions, and take political action against those persons in the community who are causing so much trouble. 
The resolution of the Labour conference in New South Wales was a. disgrace to the Labour movement. Has Russia played the game with Britain and France, or with Poland and Finland?- If the Opposition is anxious to assist the Government, Labour members now have an opportunity to show their real worth. 
I quite agree, but is the Labour party at war with those Communists in New South Wales who caused the coal strike? Are honorable senators opposite in accord with those persons who carried the " Hands off Russia" resolution? I regret that the Leader of the Opposition, perhaps in the heat of debate, said that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  did not want the strike to be settled. That is very unfair. The Prime Minister has announced that he is going to the coal-fields at this weekend in order to speak to the miners. Labour Prime Ministers have taken similar action in the past. We who have been associated with the Prime Minister in the Cabinet since the outbreak of war appreciate the enormous responsibilities which rest upon him. Long hours of work are but one phase of his labours. It is very unfair to suggest that the Prime Minister, or any other member of this Government, is not anxious that the coal strike should be settled as soon as possible. 
The Prime Minister has stated that the Government is in favour of industrial arbitration. On that issue we have no quarrel with the Opposition. In this dispute the Arbitration Court has given a decision, and it is the duty of both parties to the dispute to observe the award of the court. The present leaders of the Labour movement, instead of adopting the spineless attitude of declining to deal with the Communists in the movement, should persuade the miners to rely on the court. The extremists in the Labour movement, and not the coal-miners themselves, are responsible for the strike. If the Labour party genuinely desires to assist the Government and the country in this dispute, its leaders should say unequivocally that the Labour party supports the policy of industrial arbitration and stands firmly for the observance of Arbitration Court awards. 
The Leader of the Opposition stated that inflation occurred in Australia in 1914. That is so ; but if the Labour party had had its way we should have had a degree of inflation which would have ruined this country. However; the attitude adopted by the Senate at that time - and the Government will ' adopt a similar attitude on this occasion - defeated Labour's proposals. Immediately on the outbreak of this war the Government took prompt measures to control prices. Honorable senators have had an opportunity to study the relevant figures. In addition, interest rates are now considerably lower than they were at the corresponding period of the last war. 
The Leader of the Opposition also asked what is really meant by full participation in the war. On that point I again  take  an opportunity to ask bini what is the real policy of the Labour party towards the war. The Government realizes the seriousness of the situation and will do all in. its power to render assistance to Great Britain and its Allies in the conflict. What I should like to see displayed by present Labour leaders and Labour members of Parliament is something of the spirit of the old Labour party of 1914. When those men were asked to state their attitude towards the last war they replied that they would render assistance to Great Britain " to the last man and the last shilling ". The things for which we are fighting in this conflict are equally important. The Leader of the Opposition wanted to know what the final alinement in this war would be, and he answered himself by saying that at present no one can tell. If Labour were now in office would it be prepared to send men overseas to help Great Britain and France at the front line where the real fight is being fought? There can be no doubt that if Britain be defeated Australia will be defeated also. Consequently the policy of this Government is to do everything within its power to assist Great Britain on the other side of the world. It is in this respect that the Labour party has fallen down on its job. I am amazed to find any organization in this country passing a resolution urging Labour members of Parliament to prevent volunteers from going abroad on active service. Surely Labour leaders must realize the seriousness of our situation. The Leader of the Opposition again declared that the great majority of the volunteers will come from the homes of the workers, implying, of course, that the majority of them will be men who are supporters of the Labour party. 
They come from all sections of the community, rich and poor alike. 'If the honorable senator says that the great majority of our soldiers come from working-class homes, his desire that all sections of the community should make equal sacrifice can be met only by compulsory service. The Labour party, however, is opposed to compulsory  military  service. Criticism has been levelled against the monied men of this country. If the Leader of the Opposition could take a glance at the taxation assessments that have already gone out this year, he would realize that the men who are making money in this country are making their just contribution towards the enormous expenditure we are incurring in this conflict. 
The policy of the Government to deal with the Bed element in the community is a matter of the utmost importance, and we look to the Opposition for assistance in this direction. 
I do not propose to go into detail at this juncture, but the honorable senator will be acquainted with that policy when the relevant legislation is introduced. If this Parliament as a whole is in favour of industrial arbitration, it is the duty of all parties to see that awards of the court are observed. 
The leaders of the Labour party in thi.« Parliament declare that they are behind France and Great Britain in this conflict, but when they are asked whether they are prepared to encourage men to serve abroad in order to help our Allies, they reply " No ". They are behind France and Great Britain - 12,000 miles behind ! 
I was interested in the comment made by the Leader of the Opposition that our primary and secondary industries would suffer if we continued our defence expenditure at the present rate, or if we continued to send contingents abroad. On that point I can only ask honorable senators opposite to try to appreciate what Groat Britain has already done for Australia in this crisis. In view of that assistance their attitude is indeed selfish. Up to date we have sold to the United 
Kingdom Government primary products to the value of  £120,000,000.  Some people say that Great Britain agreed to purchase those goods because it requires them; but let us consider what the economic position of Australia would be if Great Britain were unable to provide the ships required lo transport this enormous volume of primary products overseas. 
The honorable senator is exaggerating if he suggests that within the limited time available we could have constructed sufficient ships to handle this quantity of goods. In spite of the fact that the British Government could have secured wheat from another dominion in a third of the time required to transport it from Australia, it still agreed to purchase from us wheat to the value of  £14,000,000.  Our economic existence depends on the sale of our exportable commodities to the British Government. Therefore, we must rely upon the protection of the British navy for the protection of our sea-borne trade. I again assure honorable senators that the Government will make every effort in its power to defend Australia, and to assist our Allies on the other side of the world where the real battle is being fought. 
 Senator "Wilson's  speech has been so fully and trenchantly dealt with by my Leader  (Senator Collings)  that I shall abandon my original intention to reply to him. The honorable senator's wellrounded phrases seemed familiar to me, and before he had spoken for very long I realized that what he was saying could be found almost word for word in any anti-Labour newspaper. He complimented the Government on its financial proposals, particularly on the fact, that it. recently raised its loan of  £18,000,000  at the low interest, rate of  3  per cent. However, he failed to tell the Senate that the Government could secure the whole of that sum. through the Commonwealth Bank free of interest. It does not cost an orthodox economist or an ill-instructed member of Parliament very much effort to see that it. is not sound finance to pay  3  per cent, for money when it can be got free of interest. I again point, out that when the whole of that loan is subscribed, no money will go to the Treasury. All that the Government will get will be the right to draw cheques to that amount on the banks which have subscribed to the loan. These so-called voluntary contributions are obtained in various ways. Day after day I used to read of the additional applications in connexion with the loan. However, I should like to point out exactly the procedure followed in the raising of this money. Persons with bank overdrafts are having their overdrafts called up. I know of one man who secured an overdraft of  £1,500,  offering as security a block of flats which the bank itself valued at  £9,000.  Recently, he received a letter from the manager of the bank asking him to call at the bank. The interview was along these lines : The manager said, "  Mr. Brown,  my directors are very concerned about your overdraft. We want you to reduce it ".  Mr. Brown  replied, "That is impossible. I am a builder, and you know that more builders have gone broke than any other class of business men. Why worry me to-day ? You know I have no work; in the meantime you have my property valued at  £9,000  as security against my overdraft, which amounts to only  £1,500  ". The manager then told  Mr. Brown  to think the matter over.  Mr. Brown,  however, was unable to meet the bank's demand. A few months later he received another letter asking for another interview. On this occasion, fearing the worst, he said to his wife, " Do not be surprised if, when [ come back, I have to sell our house in order to meet the bank's demand ". However, on meeting the manager, he got a surprise. He was offered a cigar. The manager said, " You know there is an  £1S, 000,000  government loan on the market. We want you to subscribe  £1,000  to that, loan ".  Mr. Brown  replied that, that wa&lt; impossible. The manager then said, "Forget about your overdraft. All you have to do is to sign this application for  £1,000  in the loan ".  Mr. Brown  then asked whether that would not add to his liability to the hank, and the manager replied, "  Wo,  we shall buy the bonds and draw the interest, and vo a can forget about your overdraft ". The customer signed for  £.1,000  worth of  bonds, and then signed another paper transferring the bonds to the bank. The trick is that the bank gets £ per cent, on every pound raised in that way. 
Security is not necessary. The bank pays no money; it merely applies for the bonds, which are not taxable, but on which interest is paid. The bank customer has everything to gain and nothing to lose by signing the application. That is what is called " volun tary contribution by the public, to the war loan ", whereas in actual fact, it is nothing but bank intimidation. In the case to which I am referring, the manager became confidential with the customer, and said the quota for his district was £25,000. All he had to do was to keep on calling up the overdrafts of his customers, the Browns and Jones, until he obtained that £25,000. The alternative offered to the purchase of the bonds was the repayment of the overdraft. Oan such procedure truly be called " voluntary contribution by the public " ? The banks do not actually put any money into the loan at all. 
The banks need deposits to back their advances. They do not actually lend money; they make advances amounting to ten times the sum of their deposits. I challenge any honora bio senator to controvert anything 1 have said. 
Because, as I have said, each deposit enables them to advance ten times as much credit. They would have no money at all if they had no deposits. 
The Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  has announced, that the Commonwealth Government intends to raise an additional £33,000,000 by means of new taxation, and I point out that that money will be drawn mostly from the middle classes, and not from those wealthy individuals who can best afford to pay it. Perhaps when honorable senators opposite find their salaries are to be cut in half, they will pay more attention to what I say.  Mr. Spender  also said that the Commonwealth expected to lose £13,000,000 owing to the prohibition of imports. It seems, therefore, that one amount will cancel the other, and £180,000,000 will still be required for war expenditure during the next two years. Taxes have to be paid in cash. The source of economic trouble in the world to-day is the lack of purchasing power on the part of the people. For that reason, consumption has never been able to keep up with production. As I have said many times, the amount of money in circulation at any time is determined by the banks. They alone can give credit, and to-day 99 per cent, of the world's business is run on credit. I know for a fact that the bank to which. I have referred held £1,500,000 worth of bonds in the loan, and the whole of that amount was subscribed by customers. 
At the last meeting of the Loan Council, the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr. DwyerGray,  endeavoured to show the racket that was going on in the flotation and conversion of loans. He said that loans raised in Australia by the Loan Council, for the Commonwealth and State Governments, for purposes other than meeting deficits, conversion, or repayments, during the four years 1935-7, amounted to £'7,000,000. The expenses in connexion with the flotation of the loans amounted to £494,000, and the total amount that will have to be paid in interest during the period covered by the loans will be £34,000,000. Yet, it 'was pointed out by the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Reform, that this credit could be obtained from the Commonwealth Bank free of interest. Under the existing system not only is there a big interest bill, but conversion costs also are tremendous. It will interest honorable senators from Tasmania in particular to know a. few facts in connexion with the Tasmanian loan of 4^ millions, issued at 3^ per cent., which fell due last year. Conversion of that loan was entrusted to the Australian High Commissioner in London,  Mr. S.  M. Bruce, who issued the new loan for two years at £98 10s. per cent. _ The discount represented a loss of £62,000. In addition, conversion costs amounted to £75,000. The interest rate of the converted loan was 4 per cent., which was £ per cent, higher than the original rate. At about the same time South Africa floated a big loan at 3£ per cent. It can be seen, therefore, 'that that conversion cost Tasmania £137,000, which is 12s. 6d. per head of the population of that State, men, women and children. The same procedure will have to he gone through again in two years when the loan again falls due. Is it not time that we paid some attention to the subject of loans and their conversion? In answer to a question which I asked in this chamber recently, I was told that the costs of conversion loans handled by  Mr. Bruce  amounted to nearly £3,000,000. Again I ask, is it not time we had an expert in  charge  of these conversions? 
There is a branch of the Commonwealth Bank in London which could handle that business. Once again I draw attention to the fact that the former Commonwealth agents in London, Nivison and Son, charged £2 7s. lOd. per cent, for the raising of loans, as compared with a cast of 4s. 3d. for a loan raised by  Sir Denison.  Miller through the Commonwealth Bank. A statement to that effect is contained in the report of a former Federal Treasurer, MY. Higgs, issued in 1916. It is a record that cannot be controverted. 
I am quoting a statement made by a former Treasurer of the Commonwealth. Honorable senators need not question me upon iti 
The Commonwealth Bank has been in existence since 1912, and had all Commonwealth loans been financed by that bank, the national debt of Australia would not be £1,300,000,000 as it is today, even before we start paying for the present war. 
That was fixed by the banks. They make all the terms* Under our present financial system money cannot be obtained unless it is advanced by the banks. Earlier in my speech  Senator Herbert  Hays asked why the banks paid interest, on deposits.  The  answer is that the banks can only advance credit against their deposits. They can advance eight or ten times as much as the sum of their deposits. 
That statement is a reflection on my veracity. While  the  honorable senator may be entitled to say that my statement is not correct, I submit that he cannot say that I am knowingly saying what is inaccurate.  I  resent his remark, and ask that it bo withdrawn. My honesty has been questioned. 
I do not think that  Senator Dein  had any intention of reflecting on the honesty of  Senator Darcey. 
Did  Senator Dein  intend to cast any reflection upon  Senator Darcey's  honesty? 
A few weeks ago, Professor Copland, Commissioner of Price Fixing, addressed the Hobart Chamber of Commerce, of which I am a member. Incidentally, Professor Copland opened his address with the words, " I have a lousy job ". I think that Professor Copland's salary from the Commonwealth Government is approximately £1,750. In addition he receives £1,000 a year from th e University of Melbourne, £300 a year for his job as adviser to the Government of Victoria, and ?500 a year as a commissioner of the State Savings Bank of Victoria. That hardly seems to me a lousy job". That, however, is apart from the point. "When Professor Copland finished his address, I informed the  chairman  at the meeting that I would like to draw Professor Copland's attention to one commodity which had ' not yet been tackled by the price-fixing authorities. .1 pointed out that there is a commodity sold to the community known as bank credit. Bank credit is made on the premises. The . raw materials are pen, ink and paper. It is an indispensable commodity to modern business, and it is never sold at less than 100 per cent, profit. It is an axiom of economics that all costs must be recovered through the selling price, and therefore this tremendous bank C03t is added to everything that the purchaser buys. The purchasers of credit are paying the bank 100 per cent, for something that is indispensable in modern business. In reply to my question Professor Copland said, "  Senator, I  think you will find that we shall raise this money at a lower rate of interest than you anticipate ". That, of course, had nothing to do with my question. It is just typical of the manner in which all orthodox economists avoid fundamentals. 
At the Loan Council meeting last year Mie then Premier of Tasmania  (Mr. Dwyer-Gray)  made the following statement : - 
The determination of the Menzies Government to borrow  ?10,000,000  at  3i  per cent, is  an  ignoble concession to an antiquated system of finance. Business men recollect the heavy taxation which followed the last war, and it is quite unnecessary, with the Commonwealth Bank, for the Government to put any interest on any loan flotation. 

 Mr. DwyerGray also said ; ft is just as necessary to defeat the present financial system as the Germans. . . . 
Instead of the Government tackling the question and facing the issue, it has come to an arrangement with the private banks to share part of the resultant "boodle". 
Unfortunately there is only one newspaper in Hobart, and as the views of that paper did not coincide with those of  Mr. Dwyer-Gray,  the statement was not recorded. However, a week or two later, the same paper had no hesitation in 

 Senator 
 Darcey reporting, under a twocolumn heading, a condemnation by the Leader of the Opposition of  Mr. DwyerGray's  efforts at the Loan Council meeting. I have been laughed at and told that mine was a voice crying in the wilderness, to which I replied that so long as there was a wilderness of ignorance regarding finance I would be found crying in it. 
There is a world-wide demand for monetary reform. The Prime Minister has had forwarded to him scores of resolutions passed by public bodies throughout Australia urging that the Commonwealth Bank be used in the way it was intended to be used by the Government that created it, namely, to provide interest-free money for governmental purposes, and to help primary producers by giving accommodation for a reasonable charge. Only a few days ago I received a letter from the Bunbury Waterside Workers Association, which is certainly not a socialistic body, thanking me for the fight I have been putting up in the Senate to secure monetary reform. Since I have been a member of this chamber I have had hundreds of letters from all over Australia supporting me in my crusade. Despite the nation-wide demand for a change of our monetary and hanking systems, the Government is adamant. It refuses to utilize the resources of the nation through the medium of the Commonwealth Bank to advance the interests of the people. 
Not long ago the Parliament of South Australia by seventeen votes to thirteen passed a motion urging the Government to use the machinery of the Commonwealth Bank to finance the war by the issue of interest-free money. Later  Mr. Playford,  the Premier of that State, came to a meeting of the Loan Council in Canberra and when he was asked why he did not support in the Loan Council the resolution passed by his own Parliament he replied, " Oh well, it won't cost me my seat at the next election '". What do honorable senators think of such a reply from the Premier of a State? 
I take this subject of finance seriously. The nation is at war, and I am at war with any senator who will not realize and accept the responsibility of his office. We are fighting a war for democracy, the meaning of which Abraham Lincoln summed up in a dozen words when he said that "democracy is government of  the  -people by the people for the people ". Political economy, or government, has been defined by Bernard Shaw as " the art of spending the national income in such a way as will bring happiness and prosperity to the greatest number of people ". Will any Government supporter dare to say that that is how Australia has been, and is being, governed? The friends of the Government are well aware that the greatest good comes to the least number of people in Australia; hence our slums, and poverty and unemployment. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  referred this afternoon to Australia's interest bill, which is causing the Government so much concern. This is because the only bank ever established to provide the people with interest-free money - the Commonwealth Bank of Australia - has not been used as it should have been. 
The taxation imposts which have been forecast by the Treasurer will affect incomes in the middle-class range, probably those ranging up to £1,000 a year. The Commonwealth Bank was established with £10,000. I am interested in its history because it was that financial genius,  Mr. King  O'Malley, who visited Hobart and persuaded the then Premier of Tasmania,  Mr. Solomon,  to transfer the 
Tasmanian Savings Bank account to the Commonwealth Bank. 

 Sitting 
 suspended from 6.15. to 8 p.m. 

Great Britain with a population of 40,000,000 persons had a national debt of £650,000,o00. To-day that debt is over £9,000,000,000 and we have only started the conflict. Unfortunately for Australia we have inherited the British banking system, and our national debt will soon be double that of Great Britain in 1914. To-day Britain's national debt is two-thirds of the total value of Britain's national assets, and Australia in common with Great Britain will, if it does not adopt sound financial methods, have to repudiate its liabilities. What is the use of appointing a banking commission which cost the country £27,000 if the Government will not permit Parliament to discuss its report? Over twelve months ago I asked if that report could be brought before Parliament for discussion before the Christmas vacation in 193S, and I was informed that such an opportunity would be afforded. The present financial system cannot continue indefinitely. When a recent meeting of the Loan Council concluded the present Treasurer was asked if he could say whether the Government could carry on under the present system if the war lasted two years, and he said that it could not. During the last war the private banking institutions admitted that they could not carry on, and the responsibility had to be shouldered by the Commonwealth Bank. We would not be faced with our present tremendous national debt if the Commonwealth Bank were used for the purpose for which it was established. I have related on previous occasions the experience of  Mr. W.  H. Higgs, when Commonwealth Treasurer, in 1916. By raising a loan through Nivison and Son the flotation expenses were £2 7s. Id. per cent., whereas  Sir Denison  Miller raised through the Commonwealth Bank many millions of pounds at a cost of only 4s. lOd. per cent. In that one transaction the employment of a private underwriting agency meant a loss to the Commonwealth of £774,000. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  referred to the fact that at present we are paying approximately £1,000,000 a week in interest.  Mr. Towers,  of the Canadian Central Bank, said that that bank, being a government bank could lend money free of interest and that there was no  need to repay the capital, because the increased prosperity of the people enabled it to be repaid indirectly. But this Government and those which have preceded it still persist in paying exorbitant interest rates. 
In  our  view, the proper relations  between  the two authorities are these. The Federal Parliament is ultimately responsible for monetary policy, and the Government nf the day is the executive of the Parliament. The Commonwealth Bank has certain powers delegated to it hy statute, and the hoard's duty to the community is to exorcise those powers ro 'he best nf its ability. Where there is a conflict l«'t.w«en the Government's view of what is  best  in the national interest, anil the hoard's- view, the first essential is full and frank discussion  between  the two authorities with a view to exploring the whole problem. Should their views be still- 'irreconcilable the Government shall tell the bank board that it can and will take full responsibility in the matter and instruct the bank board bow to act. 
Under the constitution the Commonwealth Government has certain powers which it should exercise. The paragraph which I have just cited had the support  it  the  chairman  of the commission, who is a judge of the Supreme Court and after twelve months of investigation he should have known whether his recommendation was constitutional. That recommendation has been entirely disregarded by the present. Government mid I suppose it always will. be. If we do not destroy the Menzies Government in trie ni-'xt flection it will destroy Australia. We cannot fight a war unless we have interest-free money. If we come out of this conflict victorious we shall be ruined financially. I have shown how our national debt is increasing and how unnecessary costs are incurred in connexion with ordinary and conversion loans. We are continually converting loans at a. tremendous cost. Why should we ask the High Commissioner in London to arrange the conversion of loans or to deal with any other business concerning which he knows nothing? On one occasion  Mr. Baldwin  was sent by the British Government to deal with the Wal] Street crowd in America and the negotiations resulted in that British Government having to pay £65,000,000 a year over a period of 60 years on its war debt to the United States of America. Clemenceau said that France was not. for sale and that he would not- pledge his country to Wall Street. Do honorable senators realize why we have been elected to this Parliament? I often think that they do not. The way in which this war is to be financed is the most serious matter that we have to consider. Australia cannot be defended adequately if we are to pay interest at the rate of from 3 per cent, to 4 per cent, on loans. Prior to the dinner suspension, I mentioned the cost of the loans floated since 1934. It will be necessary to repudiate them, as was done by Great Britain in respect, of loans raised in the United States of America for the purposes of the last war. That country was in the war for a year and eight months before it put one soldier into the firing line. In view of the price paid by Great Britain in blood in that war, I consider that the United States of America was not entitled to repayment of the British loans. The Bank of England is no more entitled to that name than it is to be called the Bank of New York. Honorable senators will recall the famous saying of Goering that the Germans preferred guns to butter; but when  Dr. Schacht  said that Germany must have another loan from the United States of America,  Sir Montague  Norman and  Sir Walter  Runciman travelled on the  Queen Mary  to New York in order to float a loan, but not for the purchase of butter for the half-starved people of Germany. 
No honorable senator opposite has been able to contravert anything that I have said regarding banking and finance. The experience of Christian missionaries is that it is a good deal easier to convert to Christianity untutored blacks than the people of a highly civilized country, where prejudices have to be overcome. Similarly, I" find it impossible to counteract prejudices by logical reasoning, and that is why I have muchtrouble in inducing members of the Senate to accept my financial views. ] hope that Australia will not be ruined financially before the theories that I have advanced are put into practice. Those views are in accord with the first plank of the political platform of the Labour party. I am at war with any body of men who are not prepared to face this situation seriously. A fortnight ago I saw troops marching in the streets of Sydney. Some of them were men from Tasmania whom I knew, butI could not cheer. I have visited the hospitals in Hobart during the last 20 years, and 1 have seen too many of the wrecks of the last war. I happen to be  president  of the Hobart branch of the League of Nations Union. At one time I thought that the league had provided the necessary machinery for the preservation of world peace, but my belief was shattered when I heard that  Sir Harry  Strakosch had been appointed by  Sir Montague  Norman as financial adviser to the league. After the last war a committee of the league found - 
That armament firms have - 
) Been active in fomenting war scares, and in persuading their own countries to adopt war-like policies. 
Attempted to bribe Government officials both at home and abroad. 
Disseminated false reports concerning the military and naval programmes of various countries in order to stimulate armament expenditure. 
Sought to influence public opinion through the control of newspapers in their own and foreign countries. 
Organized international armament rings through which the armament race has been accentuated by playing off one country against another. 
Organized armament trusts by which they have increased the price of armaments to governments. 
When one reads a letter in an English newspaper by a military officer of high rank, one often -finds on inquiry that he is a member of the directorate of one of the big armament firms. I have the same respect as my leader has- for  Senator Abbott,  but until we get down to the real causes of war it is hopeless to expect satisfactory results from' an armament conference such as he proposes. We cannot prescribe the medicine until we diagnose the disease. The financial magnates have created a Frankenstein that will eventually destroy them. The millionaires in Great Britain are to-day in greater danger from bombs than were the men in the front-line trenches in 191 4. In 1936, Lord Baldwin, in his book  Should this War Eventuate .  said - 
Anarchy and chaos will prevail. The people will rise against their governments and destroy them. 
I believe that that is true. I was greatly relieved to hear what our visitor from England told us to-day; but, even if we win in this struggle, in what position shall we be financially? During the last war the profits of the armament rings were almost, beyond belief. We remember the shortage of shells that occurred in the first two years.  Mr. Lloyd  George, when he was Prime Minister of Great Britain, said that great difficulty was being experienced in obtaining armaments, and that if the prices were not reduced Great Britain would either have to drop out of the war or adopt some drastic measure. The result was that the manufacture of armaments was taken from the private firms, and the British Government assumed control of all private manufacturing enterprises.  Mr. Lloyd  George informed Parliament subsequently that lS-lb. shells, for which 22s. 6d. each had been previously charged, were being made under Government supervision for J.2s. each. There was a specific saving in the period under review of ?S5,000,000. For Lewis guns, the average price charged by private firms had been ?165 each, and under Government supervision they were made for ?35 each. This shows the patriotism of the armament rings. Rifles that were costing 42s. each were afterwards produced under Government supervision for 14s. each. Germany obtained 50 per cent, of its iron ore throughout the last war from French soil. It captured the Briey Basin, and the mine was immune from bombardment by the French. Subsequent enquiry proved that a big French firm working in conjunction with Thyssen in Germany had agreed to halve the profits during the war. 
I refer honorable senators to  Financiers and Nation  by the Right Honorable Thomas Johnson, ex-Lord Privy Seal, who occupied one of the highest positions in the British realm. That writer stated - 
The British banks created over ?2,000,000,000 out of nothing. 

 Mr. R. G. Hawtrey, exsecretary of the British Treasury, in an article in the  Encyclopedia Britannica,  remarked ; 
The banks are institutions for tlie creation of credit, which they create out of nothing. 
I have already told honorable senators how the first British loan was raised during the last. war. I gave a specific illustration. A man with an hotel worth ?20,000 had paid for it, probably by borrowing the money through a bank, which wrote to him and said that his patriotic duty was to put some of his money into the first war loan. When he said that he had not any money to invest-, the bank replied : " We can easily arrange that. The Government is giving 5 per cent., and we can lend you the money at 4 per cent." Between his patriotic duty and the inducement of a profit of 1 per cent, he fell into the trap, and took a mortgage of ?10,000. When the second war loan was floated he received another note from his bank manager, who told him that he ought to take up another ?5,000 worth of bonds, as it was only necessary for him to hand over to the bank his ?10,000 worth of bonds. Of course, the bank was creating this money. There is not a bank in Australia to-day that could pay 2s. in the ?1. He put the ?10,000 worth of bonds in the bank and got another ?5,000 worth. When the bank decided to call up the overdraft of ?20,000, he could not meet the demand, and, consequently, the bank closed down on his hotel. This policy brought about stagnation generally in England at that time, and tens of thousands of firms passed into the bank's hands. A banker has been defined as a man who lends you an umbrella when it is fine, and calls for it when it rains. 
The other day in Canberra I listened to a lecture by a prominent Australian economist. He spoke for an hour on overseas trade. He made one mistake; he declared that the disastrous drop of prices in 1929 ruined the primary producers of Australia. He said that the only way in which we could protect our exports would be by penalizing the local consumer. Apparently that policy is being followed to-day, because a pound of Australian butter which costs 2s. in Sydney can be bought in London for ls. 6d. At the conclusion of his address, I asked the lecturer if he would tell his audience what brought about the disastrous drop of prices in 1929. He refused to answer my question. I proceeded immediately to explain the point to the audience. I pointed out that Gustav Cassell, the noted Swedish economist, who for some time was a lecturer at Oxford University, declared that concerted action on the part of the banks in the restriction of credit, dictated by high finance, brought about the drop of prices in 1929, which ruined the primary producers of not only Australia but also the rest of the world. Of course, the banks in Australia have no say whatever in their policy.- They simply take their instructions from London. When he was asked how long the depression would last Professor Cassell replied,- " The banks having deliberately created the depression, can lift it. whenever they like". No man ever spoke truer words. We live in a money economy and we cannot, either as individuals or nations,, implement a single wish, without money,  and so long as we stick to the present financial system, tie deeper we get into debt either as individuals or nations, the less individual liberties  Ave  enjoy. For instance, if I were a retailer and got into debt with a merchant, sooner or later the merchant would say to me: "Darcey, you are behind with your payments. Unless you buy the whole of your future requirements from us, we shall put you through the bankruptcy court". The system of barter went out of vogue long ago, but many efforts have been made to re-introduce it. However, those efforts have failed, because of the opposition of the banks which realize that there is no profit in the barter system. When the Bank of New South Wales was established, its trading capital was only £225,000, whereas to-day it amounts to between £S,000,000 and £9,000,000. It is hopeless for a layman to endeavour to discover the profits made by a bank from an examination of its annual balancesheet. It is the practice of the banks to transfer hundreds of thousands of pounds to secret reserves. In many cases these secret reserves are greater than the paidup capital, of the bank. 
Every body knows that money is lent to the banks in the form of deposits. At times even I have put money in the hank. I was paid  2  per cent, for the money which I deposited, but when on one occasion I asked for a business overdraft I was informed that the interest rate on it would be 6 per cent. Honorable senators will no doubt think that a man of my education should have had more sense, but that occurred years ago before I had made a thorough study of banking. The difference between  2$  per cent, and 6 per cent, represents a profit of 125 per cent. Even that would not be so bad if the banks actually loaned the money, but they do not ; they merely advance credit. 
I purchased a property early in 1914 and when war broke out I expected to receive a  severe  financial setback. I' mortgaged my house, but like every body else who had something to sell during the war, I made money, and I was.able to pay £1,000 off the property. Subsequently the mortgagee came to me and said that the mortgage was due, and that he needed money for business reasons. I had not the required sum and the mortgagee suggested that I approach my bank manager. As I have said, 1 did not know much about banking in those ..days. ' I went to the bank and asked for the money and the manager asked what security I could offer. Being innocent of banking methods, I replied that I had a wife and three children worth a million pounds each. The manager said unfortunately these could not be regarded by the bank as security, and he asked what I had in the nature of bricks and mortar. Fortunately I had security of this nature and I obtained the money. Some years later I saw that bank manager again and he said, " How are those assets of yours getting on ? ", and I replied, " The oldest is in breeches and I have two more since I saw you last ". Unfortunately banking and finance is a very dull subject, and perhaps I shall be excused for endeavouring to brighten it with anecdotes. Beturning to the point which I wish to make, the bank manager asked me how much I wanted, and I said £1,500. The bank advanced the money, for which I signed a document, which in effect meant that I transferred to the bank property worth between £6,000 and £7,000, in return for which I was given the authority to write a cheque for £1,500. That cost me £96 in interest annually. The money was put to the credit of his current account, on which the bank paid no interest. With the money which I paid to him, the former mortgagee of my property bought £900 worth of tools and equipment, for which he paid by cheque; the man who sold the tools and equipment paid for them by cheque, and the manufacturer of the tools and equipment bought his raw material and paid the wages of his employees by cheque. It can be seen, therefore, that there was no money involved in the transaction at all. 
It is commonly believed that to start a bank it is necessary to have millions of pounds. That, however, is a fallacy. The Commonwealth Bank started with only £10,000, but now it has £122,000,000 in deposits and the excess of assets over its liabilities amounts to £19,000,000. Who says that there is no profit in banking? I cite also the case of a son of the late Andrew Mellon, one of the richest men in America. Mellon, jun. was taxed on an income of $600,000 in one year. He protested that he did not earn that much, but of course he bad to pay it, and claim a refund. He sued the Government for a refund of $122,000. During the hearing in court, he was asked by the lawyer conducting the government case whether or not a greater part of his income was derived from the bank, and he replied that it was. The government representative then asked what was the paid-up capita] of the bank,- and  Mr. Mellon  replied, " My bank has no paid-up capital; my father's good name is the capital of my bank ". It appeared, therefore, that Mellon, jun., had an income of $600,000 merely because his father was a. rich man. When he opened his bank the name " Mellon " was something to conjure with because his father owned half the railways and banks in the country. People put their money into "the Mellon bank" and with every $10,000 deposited the bank was able to advance $800,000 or $900,000 worth of credit at 6 per cent. I would start a bank next week if I could, but unfortunately I could not do it. The richest man in the world could not start a bank in Australia unless he had the support of the other banks.  Sir Denison  Miller found that out when the private banking institutions threatened! not  to clear the cheques of. the new Commonwealth Bank. Eventually the Bank of New South Wales agreed to do this, and of course all the other banks had to follow suit. Banking is the only business which it is impossible for a man to undertake in Australia. I believe that 'an American firm with a great amount of capital tried to start a bank in Australia, but it was unsuccessful, because the other banks resolved not to clear its cheques. The monopoly at present in existence is 30 tight that it cannot be broken. I challenge honorable senators to name any other business activity which is so exclusive. 
Although I cannot take all the credit for it, it is well known to the Government that there have been hundreds of demands from various associations throughout Australia that the Government should use the Commonwealth Bank to finance national undertakings and war expenditure. It can be done. I challenge any honorable senator to prove otherwise. I have the backing of a royal commission set up by the Lyons Government. I have a question on to-morrow's notice-paper asking why the Government persists in ignoring the recommendation of that royal commission, and when its findings will be discussed in this Parliament. I hope that that question will be satisfactorily answered. 
I think I have given a clear statement of the financial position of Australia, and the much worse position which will come about if this war lasts for a couple of years. Australia cannot possibly finance by Joans and taxation the expenditure which will be required of it. The smash which must come will be the responsibility of the Government, because the Government is the executive of this Parliament. I have outlined to honorable senators the true principles of political economy and the reasons why we are now in financial difficulties. If those principles were observed we would not bc in this predicament to-day. A report was sent from the United States Secret Sei- vice to France regarding the banking fiirm of Kulin Loeb and Company, of New York. This big banking (inn which includes the Pierpont Morgan group sent Lenin and his 56 Jews to Russia to start the Russian revolution. I have already shown what armament firms can do, and I shall now mention just what can be done by financial institutions. A revolution could not be started in a population of 100,000,000 without a lot of money. Thirty million Russians lost their lives in that revolution. I do not say that, they had. no justification for revolting against the conditions which obtained during the  Czarist  regime. If this war continues and Italy becomes involved, Great Britain, France, Germany and Italy will be ruined with the los3, possibly, of millions of lives and thousands of millions of pounds' worth of property. Yet the root-cause of all wars will remain untouched. "We cannot talk now about postwar planning, because no one can conceive what this world will be like when these forces of high finance are let loose. Once high finance has ruined the countries I have mentioned, only two would remain - the United States of America and Russia, both of which are under the thumb of high finance. The reward which Kuhn Loeb and Company received for financing the Russian revolution was the sole right to finance the Russian fiveyear plan which developed into a ten-year plan and now has become the fifteenyear plan. That company is still financing Russia. The deeper a nation gets into debt, the less chance there is that it will ever emerge from its troubles. The so-called rule of the proletariat in Russia is a farce. The proletariat of that country has no more voice in the government of Russia than has the man in the moon. Big finance rules everything. Walter Lippmann, the great financial expert who was an adviser to the late  President  Wilson, and is now financial adviser to  President  Roosevelt, has declared that the  President  of the United States of America is not actually in charge of that great country; it is governed by the financial magnates. In 1912 there was such a disturbance in that country over the operations of trusts and combines that  President  Wilson had to institute an inquiry. I read the report of that investigation. It disclosed that Jacob Schiff, head of the firm of Kuhn Loeb and Company, had control of five of the largest banks in the country and 125 smaller banks, as well as a large number of big companies associated with these banks, representing a capital of $22,000,0.00,000, which in English money is about £4,999,000,000. So powerful was this financial group that it could stop every industrial wheel in the United States of America. When the Sherman Trust Act was passed the federal government "fined these financial interests the sum of $20,000,000, but they were so powerful that they refused to pay the fine and actually defied the Government of the United States of America.  [Extension of time granted.] 
Under the present orthodox system of finance governments cannot continue without borrowing. Consequently, the first tact by  President  Roosevelt when his famous " Brain Trust " was established was to borrow £1,000,000,000 ster- ling from the banks, which, by that operation, brought about the financial depression in the United States of America. During the war of 1914-18 the United States of America became enormously rich, principally from the sale of vast quantities of munitions and other goods to the Allies. Most of the business firms took their businesses out of the hands of the banks, and themselves began to lend money. The banks replied to the challenge by calling up overdrafts and taking credit out of circulation. The result was that manufacturers, being unable to sell their output, had to come to heel at the call of the banks. It- may appear to be strange, but nevertheless it is true to say that the borrowing by the  President  of the United States of America of £1,000,000,000 from the banks was responsible for the depression in that country. The only way in which a. depression can begin is through the calling up of overdrafts and the refusal of banks to issue further credit. Honorable senators should find this easy to understand, because the world is run on credit. That is why the United Kingdom is in such a sorry plight to-day. Great Britain has a national debt of £9,000,000,000, all of which was borrowed through the banks.  Mr. Reddaway,  a former employee of the Bank of England, and now lecturer on economics at the Melbourne University, recently in Hobart gave an interesting lecture on banking operations, with particular reference to the Bank of England. Discussing applications for loans in London he told us that the difficulty in floating loans was not to raise the money required, but to have applications accepted. I had seen in the newspapers a statement, intended to demonstrate the financial  stability of the British Empire, to the effect that a loan of £89,000,000 was put on the market one morning and was floated before dinner time.  Mr. Reddaway  explained how that was done, and after hearing what he had to say I could readily understand that it would have been just as easy to float a loan of £800,000,000. As the Bank of England does not employ underwriters, it receives nil the profits from loans raised by it. When it floats a £20,000,000 loan it takes out of that amount as much as it wants. In telling us this story of finance as seen from within the Bank of England,  Mr. Reddaway  broke the rule of that bank which requires employees to sign a declaration that they will not disclose anything that takes place inside the bank, so I am quite sure that he will never be re-employed by that institution. He told us that so heavy are applications for these loans that one of £20,000,000 may be opened at 10 o'clock in the morning and closed fully subscribed twenty minutes later. A number of operators on the London Stock Exchange, known as stags, make applications for loans under a dozen different names.  Mr. Reddaway,  speaking in jocular vein, said that the bank received so many applications under different names from one address in London that he wrote to the health authorities complaining of overcrowding in that house ! That was his joke, but it is a true indication of the state of affairs in connexion with loan flotations. The operation is really very simple. These financiers do not lend the money. They merely telephone to the institutions in which they hold monetary interests; in Australia they might ring up the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited - and ask tb en] whether they would like to take £100,000 in a new Australian loan at  oi  per cent. The institutions always accept readily and would be glad to get £200,000 at that price. Some people may say that these loans will never be repaid. Of course, they will not be redeemed. It is physically impossible to repay the national debts. But none of these financial giants wants to be paid back. So long as the security is good, and the government of the country concerned has the capacity to tax its people to meet the interest bill, these men do not want to reclaim their capital. London balances to meet the annual interest bill are generally two years ahead. When  Sir Otto  Niemeyer and  Mr. Guggenheim  visited Australia some years ago, they told us that we were living beyond our income. At the annual meeting of the Bank of New South Wales a few months ago, the general manager declared that the standard of living in Australia would have to fall as the result of the war, but he said nothing about lowering interest rates. If we allow this racket to continue we shall be ruined. The banks of Australia can only lend against their deposits, but if the present monetary system were altered the Commonwealth Bank could lend against the productivity of the country, which is 100 times greater than the amount of actual bank deposits. 
During the last election campaign in which I participated, I listened to a bank apologist in a broadcast over the air. He said that the banks filled a useful position in the community ; that if a man had £500 for which he had no immediate use he could go to his banker and put it on deposit. Of course he could, but all he would receive in exchange would be a bank receipt. He would be given no guarantee that he would get his money back. How different is the position when a man goes to a bank to borrow money. The banker will hedge about lending up to one-half the certified value of property offered as security. The manager of my bank said to me one day that the great difficulty about finance in time of economic stress was want of confidence. I told him that I had read an article about banking which said that the essence of credit was faith - faith on the part of the depositor that the bank in which he deposited his money was safe, and faith on the part of the banker that the people to whom, he made advances would pay back their loans at the stipulated time. I said that that was all wrong; that the essence of credit was approved security. Money was not lent on faith. My manager did not argue the point. Moratorium legislation was passed in Australia in order to save the people from the effect of the bank-created depression. At that time a friend of mine in Hobart had a flourishing business, but unfortunately he encountered difficulties and his bank manager told him to reduce his overdraft. As he could not do so, the bank put in a receiver. However, he had a friend who was a bank manager. He went to this friend, told him his position and said that he would like to transfer his account.  His  friend told him that he had no chance of doing so because there was a so-called gentlemen's agreement by which the banks must not accept the transfer of accounts during a depression. 
I was asked last night why the banks called up overdrafts in Australia. I replied that the Australian banks had no say in the matter. They received their instructions from London; The richest men in the world control the banks. They only want the extra money they obtain because of the power which it gives to them. They have millions of pounds which they cannot possibly spend, but they are involved in a system in which monetary power counts for everything. The people of  Russia  and the United States of America are under the sway of this power. If the governments of the world had been aware of this plot, the present war would never have occurred. The peoples of the world do not want this war, and it could be stopped if honest men controlled international finance, but under the present system wars will continue for so long as profits can be wrung from them. 
Post-war reconstruction cannot take place effectively until this monetary system, which alone is the cause of all modern wars, is changed. We in Australia have a serious responsibility. I hope that what I have said to-night will not be disregarded. As, honorable men our duty is to protect the interests of the people who send us here. Party political differences should be put oil one side. The only way to end party political intrigues is to make each member of Parliament responsible for his own actions. 
The Speech delivered yesterday afternoon by the Governor-General and the speeches made in this chamber, with the exception of those delivered from this side, have been very barren. The Government's proposals fall very far short of the requirements of this country. During the recess the Government has performed very few administrative acts that have not been purely for the wellbeing of big business concerns and vested interests. Every board that the Government has appointed has a thumb in the Commonwealth financial pie. Every Government action has been for the benefit of the wealthy classes. In a question which I submitted yesterday I innocently transgressed procedure. I learned later that the question would have involved the forfeiture .of my seat in this chamber had it been accepted by the  President.  Yesterday I offended unwittingly. To-night I propose to speak of some of the things that prompted me to ask the question, and state what I consider to be the duty of the Government. The subject should have been mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech, because it is second only in importance to that of the successful prosecution of the war. I refer to the production of petroleum in Australia. Before I resume my seat I believe that I shall be able to convince any unbiased person that the failure to discover flow oil in Australia is owing to one of the greatest ramps we have ever known. About twelve months ago an American citizen who has been responsible for the production of large quantities of oil in the United States of America came to this country.  His  sole reason for doing so was because the Government of the United States of America, at the behest of American vested interests, had introduced what is known as the  -pro rata  law whereby the production of petrol in some instances is limited to 1 per cent. The gentleman to whom I refer, being a producer of oil from wells which he himself had discovered, decided to take a holiday and come to Australia. At the same time he noticed in an American newspaper a paragraph stating that the Commonwealth Government was offering £250,000 to any person who could discover petroleum in Australia. On reading that paragraph he decided to "kill two birds with one stone ", and being a qualified geophysicist he brought his technical equipment with him. On arrival in Australia his reputation became known, and he endeavoured to ascertain whether the £250,000 could be made available to him. He visited Canberra and was informed that in 1936 the Commonwealth Government had made that amount available to certain persons desiring to search for flow oil. I shall enlighten honorable senators as I proceed concerning the amount mentioned. After being informed that the £250,000 was not now available 1 had a long discussion with him in Sydney. He has been associated with friends of mine in America, and what I am about to tell the Senate is correct in every detail. During his stay in Kew South Wales, his reputation became known, and he was commissioned by a  Mr. W.  A. Freeman, a resident of that State and the  president  of the oil search company, to pay a visit to the Kulnura Bore near Gosford, where he was directed to use -the* special equipment which he had with him. He inspected the bore and submitted a report to th effect that those engaged in the project were just as likely to obtain oil in China. The Kulnura site near Gosford was selected on the recommendation of the Oil Advisory Committee of which  Dr. Woolnough, Dr. Keith  Ward and  Dr. Wade  are members. I understand that the last mentioned waa brought to this country in 1924. I understand that £17,000 of the taxpayers' money has been spent on the bore near Gosford and that the operations are conducted on a £1 for £1 basis. Any person desiring to search for oil has to apply to the Government for a grant and must undertake to incur an expenditure equal to the amount advanced. If £17,000 has been advanced on that site, another £17,000 has also been provided by the company and a total expenditure of £34,000 is involved. The bore was sunk to a depth of approximately 4,000 feet, so that the approximate cost has been £8 a foot for boring. He disclosed the results secured after the bore had been sunk over 1,000 feet, and said that they might just as well be drilling in China. The site selected by the Oil Advisory Committee has been a dismal failure, and those interested have thrown their money away. Nearly £3,000 has been expended on a site near Penrith where those engaged in the project would have to penetrate about 4,000 feet of sandstone before they could expect to reach suitable strata. Some time later this American expert visited Melbourne where his reputation became known. In that city he was commissioned by  Mr. John  Wren who wished to invest £10,000 in a search for oil at Roma. The expert visited the site and used his instrument, which is the only one of its kind in existence. After the inspection he told  Mr. Wren  to keep his money in his pocket because there was no payable oil there. While in the vicinity he made a further inspection on a property which he had not been invited to inspect; therefore he had no actual right on the land.  His  report concerning the Roma site was similar to that on the bore near Gosford. The expert informed me in conversation that under the  pro rata  law in America he was on a 1 per cent, basis, whereas on properties adjacent large oil companies were operating for 24 hours a day. The small operators were tied down to 1 per cent. He said that in the United States of America the petroleum men were " the salt of the earth ". Some time later a campaign was started against him by persons who were promoting a company similar to that in which  Mr. Wren  was to invest £10,000. That campaign was started in a most sinister way. Shortly afterwards he was approached by two men - I was nearly going to say gentlemen - who asked him to submit a report on a Bite in connexion with which they were going to float a company with a capital of £75,000. At this stage I do not propose to give the names of the two men, but I believe that regardless of consequences I shall be compelled to do so within the next two months. Although [ am privileged when speaking in the Senate I am prepared to make the same statement outside. It has been said before that the Australian press is in the grip of the distributing oil companies and we read a. good deal of abuse, such as is written by an amateur on the staff of the Sydney Bulletin, concerning some ventures. These two men, who proposed to use this expert for their own benefit, asked him to submit a geophysical report in order to enable them to go ahead with the floating of a company. He met them the next day in their office and after some discussion they said " We do not want any drilling done; we do not intend to bore ". All they wanted was his report and to obtain £70,000 in Australia, £7,000 or £8,000 of which was to be paid to him. 
Who said that? 
A company with which I was associated, and of which I am to-day a director was formed to search for oil. It, was registered in Victoria as a company with a capital of £500,000 issued in 5,000,000 share3 at 2s. each. I insisted that the shares should be fully paid at 2s., and that parcels of shares to as low a value as £5 could be taken up, in order to give an opportunity to as many people as possible to participate in any benefits that might accrue from the production of oil in this country. As it is necessary to fight the oil combine, it was considered wise to have as many adherents as possible to our cause. The company set about its work, and up to the present time it has called up only a little over £32,000 of its capital. It has no desire or intention to issue all of its shares, and with the capital of  £32,000  already raised it is doing more to-day than any other company or combination of persons has done in Australia in the last 100 years. We are drilling seven well; simultaneously, and at some of them work is proceeding night and day. Arc any other companies doing that, although they have received cash assistance from the Commonwealth? No; they have let their . money go up in smoke on the advice of ' geologists who have proved themselves to be dismal failure's. 
Does the honorable senator believe in the contract system ? 
In lieu of what I said yesterday, I shall now submit an offer to the Government, and I hope that the Minister for ihe Interior  (Senator Foll)  will convey it to his Cabinet. If the Government will place at the disposal of Producers' Oil Wells Supplies Limited a drill and all necessary drilling equipment, which I understand it has lying idle in Gippsland, such plant and equipment to be in good workable order and subject to an examination by an expert named by me; alternatively if the Government will defray the cost of removing the largest drilling plant in Australia, owned by Producers' Oil Wells Supplies Limited, to a location named by me, extend the permit of an American citizen already in Australia to enable him to remain here for twelve months in order to superintend drilling operations and arrange for and bring about the production "of petroleum, and place at the disposal of the company £10,000 for drilling purposes; then if that company does not produce petroleum in commercial quantities in twelve months - although I think that it will do it within 60 days from the time when drilling is commenced - I shall be prepared to resign my seat in this chamber and not contest it again. Further, the company will insist that the Government pay the cost of an armed guard, the personnel of which will be selected by the company, until such time as the Government is satisfied that petroleum or its products, in commercial quantities, is being marketed, and that the Government uses the powers conferred on it under the National Security Act or the Defence Act to secure for the exclusive use of 
Producers' Oil "Wells Supplies Limited the petroleum rights to 100 square miles of laud in each of two localities named by the company for the duration of the war and ten years thereafter. 
The honorable senator is a publicity agent for the company. 
In order to belittle the efforts of this company the oil companies, through their emissaries, the Premiers of the States, made certain statements. 
Does the honorable senator refer to the Premier of Queensland ? 
Warning to the public to exercise the utmost care before investing in shares of oil companies formed or about to be formed was given by the Premier  (Mr. Dunstan)  last night. 
Intending investors would do well to consult a member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne or any other qualified financial adviser, he said. 
Just fancy consulting such persons ! 
A number of complaints had reached him from country districts that extravagant claims were being made by persons interested in the promotion of oil companies. 
Such operations furnished strong justification for the Companies Act amendment which would operate from May 1 and would prevent share hawking. 
The Premier declared that recently a country newspaper advertisement contained a statement that either of two companies being formed had a first class chance of claiming a £50,000 prize said to have been offered by the Commonwealth Government  to the first producer of payable oil. 
He had received a telegram from the Commonwealth denying that it had offered the reward. 

 Mr. Dunstan added that, in a report of a meeting, reference was made to a " radiograph, which was used by one party, as being an instrument which was most sensitive geophysically 
The Minister of Mines  (Mr. Hogan)  had been anxious to see it, hut had been refused permission. " In these circumstances one can only draw his own conclusions ", said  Mr. Dunstan. 
That statement was not only widely circulated in the press but was also broadcast over the air on four occasions on the following day. 
In January, 1920, the Federal Government offered a reward of £50,000 for the discovery of petroleum in commercial quantities in Australia. 
That statement was the authority for the reference to the prize of £50,000 mentioned in the advertisement; yet  Mr. Dunstan  declared that no prize had ever been offered for the discovery of petroleum in Australia. All honorable senators are aware that the Commonwealth Government offered a prize of that amount, but we also know that this offer was withdrawn in 1925. I have in my hand another booklet identical with that from which the statement in this advertisement was taken, but this booklet bears a stamp indicating that theCommonwealth Government offer had been withdrawn in 1925. I . know that only three weeks ago another of these booklets was purchased at the Mines Department in Victoria which did notbear a stamp in- dicating that this offer hadbeen withdrawn. In these circumstances the blame for circulation of the statement condemned by  Mr. Dunstan  should he laid at the door of the Victorian Mines Department. It is rather interesting to inquire why the CommonwealthGovernment withdrew its offer of a prize of £50,000 for the discovery -of petroleum in Australia. In 1923 a syndicate was boring "for oil atCullen Bullen, a little over 20 miles from Lithgow, where I was working as a miner when I was elected to the Senate. 'This -syndicate struck petroleum at a depth of about 300 feet, and immediately took steps to form !a company. Itsecured the services of a Sydney solicitor who attended the firstmeeting called for that purpose. That gentleman offered the syndicate £10,000 for its lease, . but the syndicate refused theoffer. Argument "ensued a t the meeting, with the result 'that no company was formed. Alittle later -the leader of that syndicate visited 'Sydney in order to attend the funeral of his daughter, but on his return to 'the "well he found that the plant had been "sabotaged. The cable had 'been cut, and he presumedthat 'tools which were missing hadbeen thrown Sown' the drill hole. At this juncture the syndicate was 'short of money, so he returned to Sydney with theobject of raising capital. During his visit he was approached at the top of Willi am-street bythree well-dressed  gentlemen who said to him, " Are you the man who found petroleum at 'Cullen Bullen?" He replied, " Yes ". The men thereupon brutally assaulted him, with the result that he had to remain in 'hospital for a . period of six months. That man is  Mr. Beatty,  of Chatswood. 
SenatorFoll. - Who does the honorable senator -suggest were the three- men whobashed Beatty ? 
Max Steinbuchel, who drilled the Martin well to the Wilcox sand and gave to Wichita  a new splurge in the oil world, was born in Wichita and 'has centered his -activities here. In recent -years he -has turned his 'attention to oil but priorto thathe was abuilder and investor. 
Apartment houses -attractedhis . attention and got . him into thebuilding activity. Spanish Court, East Elm, was -built by 'him as were a number of smaller apartment houses -and dwellings. -He . also invested in business properties. 
Oil developments later attracted his interest and it is said that he has an oil finding apparatus that really works. It worked on the Martin test. Many oil men have 'endeavoured to get him to revealhow it works but he has refrained and handles the machine mainly at night, friends say, in order to "avoid the curious. 
I myself can confirm that statement. I have- accompanied . Mr..Steinbuchel on  several trips. We always travelled at  night in order to . avoid the curious. The extract continues - 
At one time -he was said to be the -wealthiest Wichita born citizenand, with the Martin test showing for a big producer, friends are of the opinion that hehas -another fortune . to his credit. 
He -resides withhis another,   Mrs. ,  H. Steinbuchel, , 705Faulkner. The Steinbuchelhome. built -to overlook Littleriver above the Central avenue dam, . has beenfor . years one , of the more . substantial residences °,of theRiverside district.  Mrs. -Elizabeth  Wilson ishis . sister. Herman Steinbuchel is.his . only . brother. 
Steinbuchel and his driller, I.  W.  -Murfin, put down , the 3,491 foottest . with a machine land mast. A testbelow 3,00.0 'isnearly always drilled by either a standard or rotary rig, in fact most tests 'below 2,000 feet are drilled with a derrick . instead of mast and machine. 
Oil -men reported to-daythat had . it not . been for  Mr.. .  Steinbuchel's faith in his . own geology the Martin test wouldhavebeen abandoned when the pay horizon of the Robbins . pool to . the cast was barren . of oil. But theWichitan  insisted that the . drill . be carried . on andhis  faith . was . rewarded. 
Although activeas builder landoil man the Wichitanalso -has -hobbies, -one . of which is horses. He loveshorses 'and has owned -many fine animals. He is unmarried. 

 Senator- ARTHUR. - Yes, and I shall allow the Minister to inspect it at any time. 
 What has this got to- do with Australia ?' 
Any company which desires to- raise or increase- capital must' apply for permission to do so to the Treasurer who inmatters of this kind is guided; by the advice of the National Security Control' Advisory Board. This: particular company proposed. to raise ?50;000 of. additional: capital in order, to enable it. to1 go ahead with drilling- operations.. I. point out. that every ls. of this: capital is: devoted to- this work; nobody in the-- company receives any remuneration whatever.  Mr. Steinbuchel  does: not draw: a penny of this- capital, I -handed the- company's application' to the-- Treasurer on the 16th January last.- He told me  So  make a few corrections, and added that the application would be referred first of all to the Oil Advisory Committee. Three days later, on the 19th January, the  Sydney Morning Herald  reported  Senator Foil's  statement that the Government had decided that no further assistance would be- given, in connexion with the search for oil'.- Is the same paper, on. the 31st. January - twelve clays- later -  Senator Fall  is; reported as having said that assistance would be given. In- his statement to the press, the honorable senator gave a list  of:  oil wells,, but apparently he forgot to mention that more than ?90.000 had been paid for obsolete: drilling machines which, could h'ave been bought for- one-third of the price. I wonder where the rake-off. went?; In some eases, portions of drills were left? behind,, and, in one instance; a drill was taken without a base. It is all very well' for honorable senators opposite to-- say, " Why don't- you do- something.?". The answer is1 that we- shall' do&gt; something. I d'raw the attention- of honorable senators to the' list of gentlemen comprising the National Security Advisory Control' Committee - 
None: of the men. mentioned. by  Senator Foll  has ever discovered a single barrel of oil, whereas the 
Other  gentleman. has- discovered and sold' millions, of barrels: of oil. 
Te a- certain, extent he is a company  ma!n:  and I' shall' explain5 later what I mean" by that;. They asked tha't some one* should: be appointed, to- examine- our process and our. method.. The real desire was to see the secret instrument owned by Steinbuchel. The machine- is not patented but if gives good results-. The process' involves' the use of geophysics, and the method is by drilling. Surely a man could have been sent to conduct tests. For instance, drilling could have been witnessed at Howlong or Portland where wells are being sunk. Apparently, the Government desired only an adverse report, and I believe that the members of the Oil Advisory Committee are agents, not of the Government, but of the major oil companies. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  J.  B. Hayes). -  I realize that the honorable senator has made some very serious statements, but I should not like to take the responsibility of ruling that statements criticizing officers of the Public Service cannot be made. I presume that the honorable senator will substantiate his statements. He should be given an opportunity to do so in the interests of those officers. I would be accepting a grave responsibility if I ruled that he should not be permitted to make those statements. 
Of what use is a royal commission? There has already been a petrol commission which cost the country thousands of pounds. A report was presented, but honorable senators are apparently not to be given an opportunity to discuss it. One statement made before that royal commission, and not up to the present time challenged, was that between 1921 and 1933, 300,000,000 gallons of petrol were smuggled into this country in the guise of crude oil by the Shell  Oil  Company of Australia Limited and the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited. Of that amount 200,000,000 gallons came into "Western Australia, and the remainder to South Australia., Tasmania and Queensland. Although the object of bringing crude oil into the country was to provide employment for Australian workmen in con nexion with refining operations, I point out that neither Tasmania, South Australia, Western Australia nor Queensland has a refinery. At the commission's inquiry the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited and the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited were represented by  Mr. R.  G. Menzies, then AttorneyGeneral for the State of Victoria, afterwards Attorney-General for the Commonwealth, and now Prime Minister. On behalf of his clients, the right honorable gentleman refused to produce books called for by the commission. 
As I have said, the machine has not been patented. The evidence to which I am referring was given to a royal commission set up by the Commonwealth Government in April, 1933. 
I am prepared to repeat what was stated on oath before the royal commission. I say further evidence was given to the effect that some of the customs regulations relating to the importation of these products were fraudulent. Crude oil throughout the world contains anything from 2 per cent, to 30 per cent, of petrol, which is only one of the 244 by-products of petroleum; the world's average petrol content was less than 15 per cent, at this time. Yet there is a fraudulent regulation under our customs legislation, which permits the entry into the Commonwealth of crude oil containing 70 per cent, of petrol. Will the Minister deny that statement? He cannot deny it, because he does not know anything about it. He has not taken an interest in the matter. But that is not all. Not only is crude oil containing 70 per cent, of petrol imported into Australia, but there is in force another regulation which, by comparison with the American testing standard for army and navy petrol measures 36£ per cent, short. Will the Minister deny that? One regulation permits crude oil containing 70 per cent, petrol to be admitted, and the other measures that 70 per cent. 36^ per  cent, short. In other words,  Mr. President,  should you have a pound in your pocket, when measured in accordance with the principle of the regulation to which I have referred, that £1 would be only 13s. Further sworn evidence given at the commission's inquiry was to the effect that the people of the Commonwealth had been robbed by means of smuggling, overcharges, and unduly high distributing costs, to the amount of £250,000,000.' Yet the Government refuses to give to members of this Parliament an opportunity to discuss the commission's report. What more can we do? We can only examine the report and arrive at our own conclusions. Following the finding of the royal commission 17,000 copies of a pamphlet were printed by a certain gentleman. These pamphlets were distributed throughout the electorate of  Mr. Menzies,  who, as I have said, was counsel for the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited and the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited at that time. 
Did anybody take any notice of the pamphlet? 
The honorable senator seems to have a good knowledge of the basher gang. 
I have dealt with  Mr. Dunstan,  and I should like now to deal with another gentleman who holds very much the same views. I refer to  Major Davies,  the Minister for Mines in Tasmania.  Major Davies  made a speech on the night  that a meeting was to be held to enlighten the public regarding the conditions affecting oil research in this country. He told the people that the company had no permit to drill where it was working. He repeated that statement and refused to withdraw it. I have that permit in my possession, and the date it bears proves that it was in existence when  Major Davies  made his attack in order to bolster up his case on behalf of the professional geologist of his department, who had declared that there was no chance of finding oil there. That geologist admitted that he had to make out a good case from very imperfect data. He said that without drilling he was not able to state whether oil existed 2,000 feet below the surface, and he had not sunk even a scout drill within 50 miles of the site chosen by the company. A geophysicist, however, is able to discover the presence of oil below the surface. I submit the following declarations: - 
Pursuant to the provisions of the  Mining Act,  1929, I, Frank Norwood Stops, Warden of Mines for Tasmania, hereby grant to William Robert Richmond, of C/o. Clarke and Gee, permission to enter upon the land hereinafter described, for the purpose of searching thereon for , subject to the conditions hereunder written: - 
He was an emissary of the overseas oil companies, and he was endeavouring to damage the reputation of the company, which was doing an honest job on behalf of Australia. He had no other object in view. I should like to know why he said that no permit had been issued, when one was actually in the possession of the company at that time. If the Minister wishes to examine the permit I shall make it available to him. 
Apparently the Minister has not "read the secret file dealing with this subject. 
He warned the public against the company. 
A few months ago. This permit is dated the 26th September, 1939. 
He made it during November, 1939. We already had the permit in our possession at that time. I emphasize once more that the Government Geologist said that he had to make the best of a bad job from the data at his disposal. Attacks were made against the company on two occasions in New South Walesby  Mr. Vincent,  the 
Minister for Mines in that State. He said that extravagant statements were being made and that the company had issued a pamphlet in which it stated that- 18,000,000 gallons of oil was being produced daily from a pool bored by  Mr. Steinbuchel  in America. He added that he had searched an American geological and geophysical publication and had . been unable to find the name of the company's expert. The science of geophysics is only eighteen years old, and  Mr. Steinbuchel  has been practising it for fifteen years. Of the last 46 wells which he located and drilled, 41 are producers.  Mr. Vincent  referred to a speech which I made in this chamber on the' 8th December, 1939, in which I said that one of the pools that Mr.Steinbuchel had discovered in Kansas had a potential output of 18,000,000 gallons a day. 
If the Minister were conversant with the petroleum industry he would be aware of what I previously stated that in America the output was at that time rationed to 1 per cent. Since then it has been increased to 9 per cent. The practice in America is to make monthly tests. 
If the Minister will make investigations in the Parliamentary Library he may enlighten himself on the operation of the system. The " potential " is the possible output. Every well is pumped dry for a certain period and the potential is estimated from that result. A scrap book, which I have with me, shows the extent of the field and contains a map giving the location of each of the wells discovered by  Mr. Steinbuchel. Mr. Vincent  declared that my statement that the potential output of one of the pools in Kansas was 18,000,000 gallons a day was extravagant. He said that we had claimed that the output of only one well was 18,000,000 gallons a day. He did not understand the difference between a well and a pool. I spoke of the Rice and Barton County Pool.  Mr. Vincent  tried to discredit the company in the eyes of the people of New South Wales simply because it was not robbing the public, but intended to go ahead in spite of all opposition. Even if  Mr. Steinbuchel  is sent out of the country the company will continue in the face of opposition from the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited, the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited or any other oil interests. 
We are drilling seven wells. 
I repeat that the sites had been selected by a gentleman who has discovered, . produced, owned and sold millions of gallons of _ his own crude oil. He is using the same instruments as he used in America, and is getting better reactions in Australia. 
Because, as I have said, the American Government had rationed output to 1 per cent, of the potential production. That ration was strictly enforced on independent operators, of which  Mr. Steinbuchel  was one, whereas the major oil companies were permitted to pump their wells for 24 hours a day.  Mr. Steinbuchel  came to Australia, intending to enjoy a holiday here, and to have a look around. Another- attack was made on the company by  Mr. Playford,  the Premier of South Australia. Before discussing his attitude I wish to read to the Senate two statutory declarations. The first was made by  Mr. E.  V. Gerloff, who stated- 
That I was engaged as tool dresser by the Associated Oil Company, Mount Gambler, operating at " The Springs ". 
That I was present when oil was struck in the bore at the depth of 1,900 feet during the month of April, 1923. 
What I saw was as follows: - Directly we broke through a- very hard shell at about 1,960 feet, we entered the oil sand with gas. Almost immediately the gas forced the oil up through the return flow space,, and also well up over the sump. The oil was very dark and irridiscent. It is impossible to estimate the quantity, but a considerable quantity flowed before it was shut oil. The driller, Roy Fife, immediately ceased drilling, and I was instructed by him to mix the mud to a much thicker consistency than we were using for ordinary drilling purposes. This he immediately pumped down under great pressure, and the mud pump was kept going until all signs of oil ceased. The hole was only carried to a depth of 2,100 feet, during what time the mud was kept as thick as the pump would take it. At this depth, Roy Fife left for Queensland on a three months' loan to the Lander Oil Company and failed to return. Work on this holeceased for good and was never continued. 
The reason that I did not make the fact known to any one that oil had been struck, was that I was threatened with instant dismissal by the said Roy Fife if I did so. 
I was present in the National Bank in Mount . Gambler when Roy Fife showed me a draft for the amount of £35,000 which he stated he had just received from America. It was made payable to his wife, Ruby Fife. (Signed)E. V. Gerloff. 

 Mr. Gerloff and six other gentlemen, whose testimony must carry much weight, can be brought before the Senate at 48 hours' notice to substantiate my statements. I have here a second declaration made by  Mr. F.  H. Unger, which reads - 
That I was engaged as wood contractor by the Associated Oil Corporation Limited, Mount Gambier, and was the owner of the laud held under perpetual lease on which the above-mentioned company was drilling. 
That I was present at the time oil was struck in the bore at "The Springs", at a depth of about 1.960 feet, in the month of April, 1923. 
What I saw is as follows: - I arrived at the bore at about 8.30 a.m., and saw the driller,  Mr. Roy  Fife, sitting on the ground watching the return flow from the bore. I saw a ditch and the sump was covered with oil. I remarked to Roy Fife, "What is this? It looks good ". He replied, " It is not coming just right". He apparently was very annoyed at my presence, and would not discuss the matter with me. The oil was very dark in colour, and displayed all the various colours of the rainbow. Also there was considerable gas, as was evidenced by the fact that it forced the oil up in bubbles which when they burst, throw the oil up knee high. Immediately after 1 arrived he entered the derrick, and. I followed him up. I then heard him give instructions to the men to thicken the mud as much as possible, which was immediately done. Oil drilling was then stopped, and the mud forced down the hole for about five hours. As I watched, convinced that the well was deliberately ruined, and I wishto express that in view of what I saw, commercial oil had been struck if it had been allowed to flow. (Signed) F. H. Unger. 
My company drilling to-day has sunk a bore to a depth of 700 feet within a mile and a half of the site where the discovery was made. 
From the information I have already given to the Senate  it  will be seen that geologists know verylittle concerning the localities in which oil may be discovered. 
Possibly what was done at Kingston, where oil was once discovered, but certain interests immediately placed a concrete block over the bore and subsequently ' constructed a dwelling on the site and placed an armed guard over it. 
That is not so. When the oil sands, which are of a honeycomb formation, are penetrated, oil rises to the surface, but if mud is forced into the bore, the oil is choked and the oil cannot reach the surface. This bore was sunk to a depth of 2,100 feet, and the geologist advised that another bore should be sunk 5 feet away. As the surrounding oil sands had been blocked by forcing mud into the adjoining bore, it was unlikely that supplies could be obtained, so the result was a dry well and the geologists were pleased. The records show that the company received from  Mr. Playford  the right to search for oil over a considerable area; but it was suddenly decided that operations should be delayed. When  Mr. Playford  was asked why a lease had not been granted, he said that he had heard certain things from  Mr. Dunstan  and others. Notwithstanding the fact that money had been paid for a lease which was subsequently cancelled, the money has not been repaid. I understand that a  Mr. Laidlaw  has a certain option, under which he cannot do anything without the consent of the Minister. 
He warned the public about investing money in the company, which, he said, should not continue to operate. When  Mr. McKay,  the managing director, asked  Mr. Playford  the reason for his action, he produced a letter from a certain South Australian politician, but when the general manager questioned him concerning any accusations, he said, " There is no accusation ". 
That is as far as the discussion went.  Mr. Playford  will verify what I have said; but the fact remains that had he not interfered, we would have been drilling in that vicinity instead of a mile and a half away. On the 7th December last, the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  when speaking on the development of the Newnes township, said that one of the reasons why oil had not been discovered in Australia was the absence of uniform legislation on the subject. He further said that as the result of the submission of a draft agreement at a recent Premiers' Conference- 
The  Hansard  report reads: "As a result of the submission to the States at a recent Premiers' Conference of a draft of model legislation "- 
The Minister went on to say that he was very pleased to learn that some of the States had passed the model legislation, and he was delighted that the Queensland Government had entered into an agreement with the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited under which that company had been given the right to search for oil on a large area in southwestern Queensland. He also said that the company proposed to spend £300,000 over a period of years. He further stated that large companies such as the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited, were the most likely to discover oil in this country. 
I have made some inquiries into this subject, and I have no hesitation in saying that no government was justified in making such a grant. 
It may have been, but it is a shame that any company should be given rights over such a large area, particularly when we realize that the Shell Company has not drilled one bore anywhere in Australia. Do honorable senators realize that the Shell Company has the right to operate on an area totalling 136,000 square miles, or 87,000,000 acres. The area in question is one-half the size of New South Wales, one and a half times larger than Victoria, five times larger than Tasmania, and 113 times larger than the Australian Capital Territory.  [Extension of time granted.]  I produce a plan of the State of Queensland showing the area over which this company has the right to operate. Can we realize the significance of what has been done with the support of the Com-, monwealth Government? 
The proposal had the support of the Commonwealth Government. The company with which I aru associated is boring in seven different centres, but the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited, which was to spend a large amount of money, has not sunk one bore in any part of Australia. The same can be said of the Vacuum Oil Company. I have received the following letter from the Queensland Minister for Mines, dated the 12th April, 1940:- 
Undoubtedly. I shall oppose it with all my strength. 
I would denounce any Government that would give away the birthright of Australians to an overseas company. 
The oil combine desires that the British Empire shall never have its own petroleum wells. The letter goes on - 
It is not possible to supply a copy of tho agreement between those companies who are operating and the Government as this .is a private document. 
Could there be anything more outrageous than that a Government should grant 136,000 square miles of country to a company in order to enable it to drill a hole 14 inches  across  the top and 6 inches wide at the bottom? We were told on the 7th December last that the Minister for the Interior was delighted about the agreement made with a company that has not drilled a single bore. In the United States of America, a company man has no soul, knows no God, and cares for no company except that which employs him. When  Mr. J.  B. Burnett, who is now in Australia, retires, his salary will be increased by 200 per cent. He is associated with the two exploratory companies operating in New Guinea in connexion with the search for oil, and in a brochure issued to members of Parliament it is stated that his services will be available to the Commonwealth Government. After the next elections, if I take over  Senator Foil's  portfolio as Minister for the Interior, I shall take steps to deport  Mr. Burnett  as an undesirable alien. He is associated with various American companies, interlocked with which is Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, in which the Commonwealth Government owns half the shares plus one, the remainder " being held by the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, which has recently changed its name to the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. On the board of directors of Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited there are three directors representing the Commonwealth Government and four representing the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. The letter from the Minister for Mines in Queensland continued - . 
The company has undertaken to spend in the search, during the first year, not less than £40,000; during the second year, not less than £50,000; during the third year, not less than £00,000; during the fourth year, not less than £70,000; during the fifth and each succeeding vear, not less than £80,000. 
The conditions of the agreement are in conformity with the Petroleum Acts of 1923 to 1929 and the Amending Act of 1939. 
I presume that the amending act of 1939 is the measure to which the Minister for the Interior referred on the 7th December, 1939, as embodying a very good agreement. 
Similar legislation is already drafted for presentation to the Parliament of New South Wales, but I hope that the Australian company with which I am associated will eventually prevent its passage. 
The undertaking provides for topographical, geological and geophysical examinations, aerial surveys, scout and deep-test drilling and any other examinations or tests for the purpose of determining the existence of petroleum, and favorable structures for further development of the petroleum search. 
The reason why this large area has been granted is that the country which I have indicated to honorable senators on a map is regarded as useless for oilsearch purposes. Even since this Parliament met yesterday we have heard of the Government's intention to increase the price of petrol by 3d. a gallon. All the petrol companies are, as we know, linked together, and the amount which this particular company proposes to expend on oil research amounts to only one-sixtieth of one penny in every £1 collected. The rest is sent overseas for the benefit of vested interests. This letter continues - 
It is open to any company or person who desires to conduct a search for oil, under our acts, to obtain an authority to prospect over certain areas, followed by permit or lease covering the certain area required under the restrictions set out in the act. 
It does not. say that anyone else may go into the prescribed area. Neither does it say that the Shell Oil Company of Australia Limited, or any of the other major oil companies, ever imported any up-to-date drilling equipment into this country. "We have here the old-fashioned water drills, which arc slow, although they do eventually get down. The letter states further - 
This covers what is known as large-scale investigation and there is also provision for smaller companies to undertake certain search under authority, permit or lease as suits their individual circumstances. 
Certainly there is. It means that such companies have to put up a very substantial deposit before they are allowed to start drilling, and there is a big chance that they will not get their deposit back if they fail to go ahead with the drilling. It concludes - 
Provision is made for a substantial cash deposit to cover the bona fides of any one desiring to take up a permit and authority to prospect under the acts. 
I believe that  Mr. Steinbuchel,  the expert to whom I have been referring, will find oil in Australia. However, he has been notified that he cannot remain in Australia after the 4th June next. Whether he leaves Australia or not, we shall complete the job. We have made arrangements to that end, but I should like to see him remain here. The Minister for the Interior has said that he has a certain file in his possession relating to this man's record. He offered to let me sec it in confidence, but I refused to see it on those terms because I did not want to have my mouth closed. If there, is on that file any matter regarding his record which is not contained in the particulars I am about to read out,  Mr.  Steinbuchel is prepared to give £50 to the Lady Gowrie Fund. Here are the particulars - 
No. 1. -  Mr. Steinbuchel  found out, after he was in Australia, that at one time during the political election night in Kansas City, several people were involved in an election fight in an hotel, and that warrants were sworn out for all of the guests of this hotel. As he happened to be a guest, his name was included, but the warrants were never served, and when he heard that they were in existence, he cabled to America, and they were immediately dismissed. 
No. 2. - His police record of America shows that the only time he was ever fined was for running through a red light at a traffic station, andhe paid a fine of 10s. 
No. 3. - While in Australia, he was set upon by a drunken thug and struck back in defence, and had to stand trial for assault. He was immediately acquitted, the jury being out one minute. 
No. 4. - When landing in Australia, he brought with him a nine-shot . 22 calibre pea revolver with a 10 in. barrel, which he used for shooting rabbits when making geophysical tests. In Melbourne he was Set upon and robbed of £38 and a diamond ring. He then went to his car and got this long target revolver, and was arrested for having a pistol without a licence. He had it registered in New South Wales and thought that being in a Commonwealth, the registration would hold good throughout Australia. 
-In some of my correspondence with him while he was in the United States of America I mentioned that in the back country in Australia rabbits were to be found, sometimes in great numbers. Most people carry a gun when they go into the bush; I myself., do. When  Mr. Steinbuchel  landed in Australia, he left his gun with the customs authorities . and it was released from them by  Mr. W.  A. Freeman, the head of the oil research.  Mr. Steinbuchel  used the. gun for shooting rabbits in the back country ; and whenhe went to Victoria he took it with him. It was -lying in his oar for three months. ' This matter ought to be investigated in order to get at the truth. We should not allow the situation to be clouded by the misrepresentations of interests which were prepared to offer thousands of pounds for the bringing in of a. " crook " report. 
I have given a brief outline of some of the matters which should occupy the attentionof the Government in connexion with the search for oil in this country. Should we fail to find oil in Australia -we should be placed in a very difficult position if at any time an aggressor bombarded our shores and coastal cities, destroying our main reserves of oil. In that case our defence would be crippled within three months. Our ' aeroplanes would be left idle on the ground, and our railways, which now use 1,000,000 gallons - of oil annually for lubrication, would be brought to a standstill. It cannot be said that there is no oil in Australia, because 150,000 gallons has been produced at Lakes Entrance. Should our main reserves of oil be destroyed, great industries like the steel works of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited would be rendered idle. Our army would be crippled for lack of . transport. I urge the Government to allow  Mr. Steinbuchel  to remain in this country. He is as honest as the average Australian. Since bis arrival here he has done no. harm to any one. On the contrary, he has done much good. . In spite of these facts, the Minister has decided that he shall not remain in Australia after the 4th Juno next. He is the only man to visit this country who has proved that he can produce oil. He knows the oil business thoroughly, and. has made'' fortunes in recent years by the use of his own methods in the discovery of oil. Although, as I have pointed out, the major oil companies have expended hundreds of thousands of pounds allegedly in the search for oil, not one of them has drilled a single well in Australia. This particular company on whose behalf I have made representations to-night- is drilling seven, wells, and is about to start on two others. Its operations will be conducted right under the nose of the Government, but . apparently the Government will not give it any encouragement unless it 'discloses its methods, and processes. It has no intention of doing so. It. is determined to proceed with its work. I ask again, in the interests of future generations of Australians, that the Government shall allow  Mr. Steinbuchel  to remain in Australia in order to assist the company in discovering 'oil. In this matter the Government -should bo influenced by only "one  motive, namely, the establishment of an industry which will solve permanently our . unemployment problem. To-day in New South "Wales alone 40,000 men are unemployed, whilst 33,000 are living on the dole. I repeat that if  Mr. Steinbuchel  be allowed to stay hero I shall resign my seat in the Senate should this company fail to discover oil under his direction. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Foll)  adjourned. 
I lay on the table of the Senate-^ 
Copy of Convention between the United Kingdom and' the Swiss Federal' Council regarding legal proceedings (London, 3rd December, 1937). 
This convention was signed in London on the  3rd  December,  1937.  His Majesty's accession to the convention in respect of the Commonwealth of Australia, including the Territories of Papua and Norfolk Island, and the Mandated Territories of New .Guinea and Nauru, was notified to the Swiss Government on the  11th  January,  1940, and  took effect  as  from the  11th  February,  1940. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Can  the Minuter give any information regarding the establishment of the radio telephone link to Flinders Island, and when it is likely to be in operation? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer :  - 
Negotiations are proceeding between the Postmaster-General's Department and the Department of Civil Aviation for the use of the proposed aeradio station at Flinders Island for the purpose of establishing a commercial radio telephone service between the  island  and the rest of the Commonwealth. It is not possible at present to indicate when this service is likely to be in operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Has  the  attention  of the  Government  been  drawn  to the  action  of the  Government  of the Union of  South  Africa in  reducing  the incidence of the gold tax on low-grade ores? 
Is it a fact that the present gold tax has a very detrimental effect on the working of mines containing large deposits of lowgrade ore, and that the actual continuance in production of some such mines is imperilled by the tax? 
Whatrelief does the Government propose ? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes.  2 and 3. The matter  is  receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In  view of the effect of the gold tax on the mining of low-grade ore, will the Government consider diverting some proportion of the revenue from the tax for the assistance of the gold-mining industry? 
The  matter  is  receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it  the intention of the  Government to  lay  the agreement between the Government and the Imperial Government, relating to the sale of wool, on the table of the Senate? 
If so, when? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and 2. As has been stated already by the Prime Minister, the details of the agreement will be made available to honorable senators as soon as all outstanding points have been agreed upon. 
Minister representing theMinister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What action has been taken by the Government in regard to the repeated requests made by Western Australian wool-growers for the establishment of wool' appraisement centres at Albany and Geraldton? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The several requests made in this connexion were carefully considered but were not approved. The matter is again under review by the Government. 
Has the Government received a resolution from the AustralianWool Growers' Federation asking for the price of wool to be increased for next season's clip? 
What action hasbeen taken in the matter ? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The Government has received proposals of this nature from wool-growers' organizations. 
The question of price will be thesubject of discussion with the United Kingdom Government during the course of a review which will take place in. the near future. 
What action has been taken by the Government towardsrectifying any anomalies or unjust prices for wool which may be apparent in the first and second appraisements under the Commonwealth's present scheme of wool acquisition? 
The Minister for Commerce hassupplied the following answer :  - 
Appraisement under the scheme of acquirement of Australian wool by the United Kingdom Government has been carried out by three appraisers chosen for their skill and experience in assessing the value of wool. The 
Government is aware that some growers complain that the prices received have not been consistent, compared with those formerly received for their wool or compared with the relative prices in their districts. This matter has been referred on more than one occasion to the Central Wool Committee, who advise, after careful examination of the representations, that there has not been any alteration in the table of limits, nor any change in the typing and appraisement of the wool. The wool having been appraised and passed into the bulk for shipment, it is not possible to review the values assigned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In regard to the wool contract with the British Government, will the Prime Minister approach the British Government with a view to seeing that the. profits on all wool sold by that Government which Great Britain does not require for war purposesshall, after allowing for all expenses, be returned to the Australian growers? 
It has been agreed that the United Kingdom and Australia will share equally in any profit on re-sale of wool for use outside the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom Government is responsible for the provision of shipping space and for marine and war risk insurance, and also takes the responsibility for any loss which may accrue from the unsold stocks of wool and the expense of storage. It would not be possible to reach agreement with the United Kingdom Government on a basis providing for Australia to receive all profits on re-sale. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice -  1..  Does  the Government intend to establish additional wool appraising centres throughout Australia? 
Will the Government establish centres at Geraldton and Albany? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has Canada sold any wheat to Great Britain since the war? 
If so,  what was the price, sterling, paid for it? 
What quantity  of  wheat has Australia sold to Great Britain since the war, and what was the price paid for it? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers-: - 
Yes. 
Details of the sales have not been made public. 
Two hundred thousand tons from No. 1 pool at 2s. 7d. per bushel Australian currency f.o.b. 1,500,000 tons from No. 2 Pool. Of this 750,000 tons were sold at 3s. 8d. per bushel Australian currency f.o.b. This price is arrived at after allowing for the shipment of 400,000 tons by neutral vessels and on American routes at an additional cost, of which our share is 3s. per quarter. The price for the remaining 750,000 tons is not fixed yet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that bags will cost6d. per bushel for next year's wheat crop andthat there is a possibility of a huge carry-over? 
If so, are steps being taken to provide temporary silo accommodation for the crop? 
It is not possible at this stage to say what the price of wheat bags will be for next year's crops. The carry-over at the end  of  the present season will depend on sales made during the next few months. A large carryover is probable. 
Provision of silo accommodation is a matter for the State Governments, but the Australian Wheat Board is now paying particular attention to the question of storage for the next wheat crop. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the apple and pear acquisition scheme has been bungled in such a way that hundreds of thousands of children arc debarred from obtaining apples, while millions of cases of apples are left to rot, thrown out in the scrub and given away for pigs? 
If so, does he not consider it would be more in the interests of the national health of the community to give such apples to school children who are not in a position to buy them, instead of giving them to pigs? 
Is it a fact that some growers cannot secure their advances, and at the same time  are not allowed to sell their apples unless  they  pay 2e. lid. per case into the apple and pear acquisition scheme? 
If so, what is the reason for this state of affairs? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
No. 
Under the publicity scheme, the Apple mid Pear Hoard has arranged for free distribution of apples to school children. 
Subject to their compliance with the regulations, all growers can secure their advances. However, in districts isolated from central delivery points, some growers aTC permitted to sell their own fruit, subject to their  accounting  periodically to the Board in respect thereof. 
See 3 above. 
.i -  by leave  - The beginning of the new session has coincided with a momentous change in the character and direction of the war. At no time in our history has the average Australian felt such a deep interest and concern in the movement of world events. Consequently honorable senators would be justified in regarding as superfluous a mere recital of the developments which have occurred since the last session, but I should not be doing justice to the Senate if I refrained from offering a summary of those developments. In doing so, however, I shall endeavour to relate, so far as that is possible in all the circumstances, the opinion and conclusions my colleagues and I have been able to form of the trend they are taking, and the implications they hold for our own position in Australia. 
I would emphasize that in forming its opinion on the present situation, and on the outlook for the future, the Government has at its disposal a very wide range of sources of information. Thu great bulk of the official information received by it comes, of course, from London, where, in addition to the formal source of the Dominions Office, to which all Dominion Governments have access, the Government maintains, as a branch of the Department of External Affairs, an 
External Aff airs Office. This, office is in the closest contact with the vital centres of Imperial administration. It is located in the office of the War Cabinet Secretariat in Whitehall, and maintains continuous and daily relations with the Foreign Office. Besides the information derived from these sources, the Government is in receipt of direct reports from British representatives in countries in which Australia has particular interest, and communicates direct, when the occasion arises, with British diplomatic representatives abroad. With the establishment of an Australian Legation at Washington, the range of information from the United States of America in particular has in the past few weeks been greatly increased. 
It will be readily seen that the Commonwealth Government is, therefore, in possession of the knowledge on which alone a considered and responsible view on world affairs can be founded, and it is hardly necessary to assure honorable senators that the Government is at all times in a position to express that view to the United Kingdom Government on matters of policy as they arise. The Government is in fact making full use of the system of close and constant consultation between the dominions and the United Kingdom which has grown in recent years, and in this respect I can say that our views are not only sought by the United Kingdom Government, but are also acted upon. In a very real sense, and above all during these months of war, the dominions have in the common policy of the British 'Commonwealth a voice which accords fully with their status and with the individual responsibility of each. 
The situation at the present time is this: A stage has been reached at which for perhaps the last time before we are engulfed in a desperate struggle, engaging the full strength of both sides, it is possible to survey the general field of international relations as they affect the war prospects of the Allied countries. Such a survey will, I think, lead the Senate to the conclusion that whilst there is no reason to doubt the final outcome of the war declared against the arrogant ambitions of Nazi Germany, the struggle we have entered on is of the most formidable character and one about which we have possibly not yet conceived the full difficulties. 
A period of some seven months of relative military inactivity has come to a welldefined end, marked by the German invasion of Denmark and Norway and the operations in reply now in train from the Allied side. These are taking place in conditions which greatly encourage the hope that in its latest aggression, Germany has committed both a political and a strategic blunder, and will in due course suffer for it. The Scandinavian countries have been in the forefront of attention since the last stages in February and March of the Russo-Finnish war. It is important to remember that the present situation in that region is closely related to the part played by Norway, and particularly Sweden, during the period of Finnish resistance. It can be stated that the Allied plans for helping Finland, decided on early in February and carefully prepared throughout that month, came to nothing primarily because of the attitude of Sweden. Allied forces sufficient to render large-scale support to Finland were ready. The plan was to be set in motion by an appeal at the right time from the Finnish Government. That appeal was never made. Sweden had indicated that it would, if the request were made, refuse passage for the Allied forces across its territory. Undoubtedly, in the full knowledge of this the Finns withheld their final request for assistance, and preferred instead to make terms with Moscow  while  terms were still possible. 
What was the reason for the Swedish attitude? It is evident now that the reason was nothing less than sheer intimidation by Germany. It had been made clear to Sweden that the permitted passage of Allied troops across Swedish territory would mean a German invasion. In this form Germany gave its complicity in the Russian conquest of Finland, and also sought to safeguard its own interests in maintaining Sweden as a source of supplies. The predicament of Sweden wa3 a painful one; it was forced to see earlier professions of Scandinavian solidarity go by the board, or bring down on itself immediate and overpowering attack. ' It is not hard in the circumstances to understand the motives for the Swedish decision. This episode, in fact, contains the whole explanation of the distorted conception of neutrality which has revealed itself almost from the beginning of the war, not only in Scandinavia, but also in other neutral States adjoining Germany. In the re-examination of the Allied position after the close of the Russo-Finnish war it was inevitable that the implications of this should have been fully weighed. It was seen to be intolerable that neutral States should not only allow themselves to be terrorized into some course of action against their real inclinations, but would also suffer without effective protest German violation of international law, while expecting that the Allies should observe the rules of war. This was the insidious process which had been going on for months through neutral acquiescence in the most outrageous acts of damage to neutral interests. While Germany reaped with impunity all the advantages of -illegality, to the Allies fell the disadvantages of scrupulous observation of the law of nations. One particular and damaging consequence was tha increasing evasion by Germany of the Allied economic blockade. The Allies also lost in general prestige through their apparent impotence to secure equitable treatment of the claims which, by reason of the cause for which they were fighting, they felt justified in making upon neutral States? 
In reprisal at last for long-continued German violations of international law with regard to Norwegian shipping and The use of Norwegian territorial waters for submarine operations,' the Allied Governments decided themselves to take action which would preclude the use of Norwegian territorial waters as a  traffic  lane by the enemy. This was effected on the night of the 7th-8th April- by the laying of mines at three points down the west coast of Norway. The immediate effect of this operation would, have been to divert German shipping, in particular vessels carrying iron ore from Narvik, from the secure corridor of the Norwegian coast into the open sea, where it could be intercepted or dealt with by the Allied naval forces. Within 24 hours, however, the whole situation  was fundamentally changed by the sudden German invasion of Denmark and Norway. This action was represented by Germany as' a reply to the 'Allied mine-laying in Norwegian waters. But it is obvious that such an operation must have been long-planned and, indeed, it is certain that some, at least, of the German units which occupied northern Norwegian ports were already in readiness along the Norwegian coast. The invasion is parallel with the German treatment of ' Scandinavian neutrals throughout the war. In the German view these countries are to be treated solely from the aspect of German interests, in pursuit of which the Nazi Government has not hesitated to extinguish the independence of one inoffensive State - Denmark - and to deliver a violent assault on another - Norway. 
The Allied reply to this stroke has been characterized by promptitude and vigour and affords a striking illustration of what can be accomplished by sea power. Immediate attacks were delivered by the Royal Navy on the German naval forces covering the invasion, and on the German sea .communications between Denmark and Norway. The Royal Air Force has also operated at sea and has made successful attacks on certain of the German dispositions on land. The picture of last week's fighting is now reasonably clear. Contrary to reports at the time, no largescale naval engagement took place, but in a whole series of isolated actions British naval and air forces inflicted heavy losses on German naval forces and shipping - very heavy in proportion to the total German strength.' The immediate object of Allied strategy is to liberate Norway from the German occupation, and the operations for this should be regarded as preparatory only at the moment. British naval forces on the 13th' April carried out a successful attack on Narvik and destroyed the enemy naval units stationed there. On the following day British soldiers landed near Narvik, ana  after making contact with Norwegian troops, began their task of driving out the Germans who are now defending positions on the railway east of the town. On the same day, and two days later, Allied forces were landed elsewhere in Norway, despite enemy opposition at certain points, and these troops are already operating in conjunction with the Norwegian army. 
The question arises as to what is the German aim in the invasion of Denmark and Norway. It is ludicrous to suggest, as has been alleged by Nazi propaganda, that the object was to forestall Allied occupation. But the Germans may well have believed that there was a likelihood of their meeting increasing difficulties in maintaining their vital supply of iron ore, not merely down the Norwegian coast, but also from Sweden itself, and determined therefore to make the supply secure. Such action would equally be an important factor in the German counterblockade against Great Britain by denying supplies to Great Britain from all three Scandinavian States. As against this, on the economic side, must have been set the inevitable losses of the sea-borne imports to Sweden, Norway, and Denmark that were destined for transshipment to Germany. 
From the strategical point of view, the move, if successful, would give to the enemy strong bases on the Atlantic for aerial and naval action against Great Britain. It would also be well calculated to- compel other neutrals, by this further display of German strength, into the German camp as a result of fear and intimidation. It should not be overlooked that the invasion might conceivably be a diversion to major operations elsewhere. Seeing that, the Germans must have reckoned with the possibility of resistance in Norway backed by the Allies, and also with the probability of substantial naval losses, it is hard to avoid the impression that the operation was designed as part of a larger plan. Even as a limited objective with this purpose the German invasion may prove to be a blunder, in that the enemy losses are heavier and the  prospects  of holding out for a sufficient time less than was probably reckoned with. The superb dash and enterprise of the British Navy and Air Force must have given an unpleasant shock to the  ininvaders.  In order to avoid complete disaster, the Germans must struggle hard to maintain their communications endangered by naval attack and audacious mine-laying in Baltic waters, or else incur the further dubious commitment of forcing a passage through Sweden. 
We may expect to see shortly the linking of Norwegian resistance to the British  land forces which have already disembarked along the Norwegian coast. North of Oslo the Norwegians are believed to be forming a defensive line and elsewhere to be carrying on effective guerilla operations. The Norwegian people and Government themselves have shown a courage and patriotism which must serve to inspire .other neutrals who may at any day be called upon to meet a similar incursion. If the Scandinavian invasion is intended as a diversion to cover a move elsewhere, it appears on present evidence that the countries most immediately threatened are Holland and Belgium. Neither of these countries, especially Holland, has found the path of true neutrality an easy one to follow. Both are determined to defend their independence, although careful to avoid such precautions as might be considered provocative by Germany. On the Dutch frontier the Germans are believed to have moved several divisions in the last few days and can possibly concentrate there at the present time some 30 or 40 divisions. Other signs of impending attack have been noted, including the familiar accusations from the Berlin propaganda machine that the Allies themselves are about to violate Dutch neutrality. 
Any large-scale invasion of the Netherlands, it will surely be appreciated, would inevitably affect the status of the Netherlands East Indies, a territory at our back door and our closest neighbour, of which the fate is of immediate and vital concern to Australia. In regard to this matter, the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs stated on the 14th April that Japan cannot but be deeply concerned by any development of the European War affecting the  status quo  of the Netherlands East Indies. Should hostilities be extended to the Netherlands and produce repercussions in the Netherlands East Indies, they would cause an undesirable situation from the aspect of the peace and stability of East Asia. Following on this significant statement, it will have been noted with gratification that the Secretary of State of the United States of America has declared that intervention in the domestic affairs of the Netherlands East Indies or alteration in its  status quo  by other than peaceful  means  would be prejudicial to peace in the whole Pacific area. Further, this statement has been communicated to the Japanese Foreign Office. 
The fact cannot be disguised that a German attack through the Netherlands, or through the Netherlands and Belgium combined, would be designed to be one of first magnitude against the Allies and would be delivered with all of the tremendous striking force of a great modern army. Nonetheless, the Allies have had an interval of seven months in which to prepare their land and air forces and to make up to overtake in some degree the advantage in preparations for war on the wider scale which Germany had at the outbreak of war. If the attack comes the Allies will be ready to meet it. 
Honorable senators must also bear in mind the possibility that Germany, in order to ensure that essential supplies from the Balkan countries shall not be cut off, might invade Rumania or other of these countries and thus precipitate a further extension of the war in SouthEastern Europe. As a typical example of the pressure being exerted upon neutral countries in that part of the world, we have received official advice that Germany has compelled the Hungarian Government to forbid the press of that country from publishing pro-Allies news. 
Some of the reports of possible German action extending beyond Scandinavia in the near future have envisaged the simultaneous entry of Italy into the war on the side of Germany. It may be taken that the Allied Governments have certainly not been indifferent to the change of tone in recent Italian comment on the progress of the war. Up to two or three weeks ago the Italian press was at pains to make some show of impartiality between Germany and the Allies. Since the invasion of Denmark and Norway, however, comment in Italy has swung over almost entirely to the acceptance of the German view. Whether this change is significant or not, events will show. The Allies have no quarrel with Italy; they have in fact repeatedly expressed the desire for harmonious and friendly relations, and in the difficult business of fitting the requirements of economic warfare against Germany into the legitimate  interests of neutrals, they have endeavoured to show due regard for Italy's position. 
 The war aim of the Allies is to crush Hitlerism and to put an end once and for all to the threat of German domination of Europe and of the extinction by force of the independence of small nations. 
The whole of the civilized world condemned the unprovoked Russian attack on Finland and the Allies were ready to give aid to Finland. But with the Finnish war over, there is no strong reason at present to suppose that Russia is contemplating any further adventure which would bring it into conflict with Allied interests. It is impossible to say whether the conquest of Finland represented the final part of the price which the Soviet extracted from Germany in return for the Berlin-Moscow Agreement of August, 1939. But at present signs are lacking that the understanding between these two dictatorships does in fact go any deeper. The ominous hints from Berlin after the Hitler-Mussolini meeting shortly before Easter, of tripartite GermanItalianRussian agreement for combined action have so far come to nothing. What German-Italian  understanding,  if any, was reached at the Brenner is unknown; but the last month has brought no indications at least of any deeper Russo-German complicity. On the contrary, it appears that the Soviet Government has tended once more to draw aloof from the affairs of Europe, and that for the time being it is of the view that Russian interests would be best served by continued detachment. 
Turkey, now a strong, united and coherent nation, has carried out most loyally its obligations under the AngloFranco Turkish Treaties, and, by its economic agreements with the Allies, Turkey is now free from economic dependence on Germany. Should it happen that the war should extend to the Mediterranean, Turkish assistance in meeting the new situation would bc most valuable. Meanwhile, Turkey acts as a strong stabilizing influence in the Balkans. 
Turning to the Middle East, we come to an area which has a special significance and interest for Australia. Even before the outbreak of war, Australian history abounded with memories of Egypt, the Dardanelles and Mesopotamia, and these historical connexions have now been renewed. In the strategic sphere we have always realized that the control of the Middle East involves the control of our imperial life-line, and that unfavorable developments in this area would threaten, not only India. but also the direct line of communications between Australia and Britain. Finally, there is the personal factor in that we now have thousands of young Australian soldiers  already  stationed in the Middle East. This being the case, it is gratifying to observe that conditions in the various middle eastern states are at the moment stable. Egypt, upon whose co-operation depends Britain's defence of the Suez Canal, has carried out scrupulously its obligations under the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty and shortly after the outbreak of war severed diplomatic relations with Germany. 
In Iraq, the Government, after affirming its attachment to the Anglo-Iraq Treaty of Alliance. also severed relations with Germany, and its friendly attitude to the Allies has not been altered by recent changes in the Iraq Government. The Emir of  Transjordinia  has declared his loyalty to Britain, while in Syria, conditions under the French High Commissioner are quiet. Iran and Afghanistan have adopted policies of strict neutrality, although both these countries have viewed with anxiety the reappearance of an aggressive Russia. There is, however, nothing at the moment to point to the immediate likelihood of Russian attacks on any ' of the middle eastern countries. In Palestine, the internal position greatly improved after it was realized that Britain was fully determined to implement the terms of the White Paper policy, and the new land regulations have gone far to dispel tho doubts of the Arabs as to their future position. In Arabia, King Ibn Saud has been most friendly to the Allies, and the considerable volume of anti-British propaganda in the Yemen has apparently had little effect. Indeed, Islamic sentiment throughout the Middle East is much more friendly than might have been the case had Palestine been less settled, and the Arab States, which have watched  closely the course of German aggression, evidently feel that their free and peaceful development is bound up with the Allied cause. In the general state of Arab opinion and the Turkish alliance, the Allies have two most important factors in securing stability in the Middle East. 
In theFar East, the publicly proclaimed policy of Japan is to devote its energies to the execution of the war in China while adopting an attitude of strict non-intervention in the European conflict. Apart from the Japanese drive which led to the occupation ofNanning in Southern China, military operations for many months  past  have been relatively unimportant. The outstanding recent event has been the institution of Wang Chingwei's new government in central China under Japanese control and support. The inauguration of this regime probably represents a desire on the part of Japan to obtain some measure of relief from the heavy burden of maintaining its position in China, and the Japanese Government evidently hopes that this move will limit the scope and intensity of the war in the Far East. In an announcement regarding the establishment of the new Government, it was stated that the Japanese Government wished to share with third powers the benefits of international amity, whilst both Wang Ching-wei andthe Japanese Government have expressed the desire that China should be re-opened to the peaceful economic activity of third powers which accepted the new situation in East Asia. However, it. remains to be seen whether the term " new order in East Asia ", which has beenso frequently used by the Japanese, will still involve discriminatory action against the interests of other powers in China. 
Japan's relations with the United Kingdom during the past few months have been marked by certain of those incidents which must inevitably arise between neutrals and belligerents in wartime. The necessity of ensuring that contraband is cut off as' completely aspossible from the enemy must always involve some inconvenience for neutral powers-, but it is pleasing to note that in the one case in whichthe stopping of a Japanese ship gave serious concern to Japan, an amicable settlement was reached. This was the occasion on which a British warship removed German passengers of military age from a Japanese ship, the  Asama Maru.  After discussions an agreement was reached whereby certain of the men were released, and the Japanese Government instructed shipping companies not to grant passages to citizens of belligerent powers who were capable of war service. lit is satisfactory to know also that a settlement is in sight on the questions regarding Tientsin which were raised last year. It is the hope of the British Government, in which the Commonwealth Government share, that an agreement on these matters may lead to the elimination of recent causes of friction between the two nations and the establishment of Anglo-Japanese relations on a basis of increased and lasting friendship. 
The United States of America has continued to pursue a course of strict neutrality towards the conflict in Europe; but there can he no doubt that Germany's continued acts of aggression have considerably shakenAmerican confidence in that course being maintained. In particular, Germany's ruthless invasion of its  small  and inoffensive northern neighbours has brought home to Americans the fact that the European war is perhaps not so far distant from their shores as they had believed, and that a German victory must directly affect the future of their own country.  President  Roosevelt's anxiety concerning the situation earlier in the year was demonstrated by his action in sending  Mr. Sumner  Welles as a special envoy to report first-hand on conditions in Europe. As a consequence of  Mr. Welles'  visit, Germany put about rumours of so-called " peace plans ". These rumours were dissipated by a public speech in which PresidentRoosevelt declared that there could not be lasting peace if the fruit of it were to be oppression, starvation and cruelty, or if human life were to be dominated by armed camps. 
Whilst Americans favour a policy of neutrality, it is undeniable that opinion in their country is predominantly antiNazi, and in many quarters is favorable to assisting the Allies by any means  short of going to war. Since Congress, on the 4th November, passed a bill to amend the Neutrality Act, the United States of America has been free to sell arms and munitions of war to belligerents. The administration is assisting the joint Anglo-French Purchasing Board to obtain expeditiously the Allied needs of the latest types of aircraft and other necessary supplies. A further step was taken in the maintenance of the most cordial relationships with America when on the 5 th March the first Australian Minister to the United States of America presented his credentials to  President  Roosevelt at the White House.  Mr. Casey  on this occasion expressed the hope that the establishment of the Australian Legation would further advance the friendship between Australia and the United States of America which was already well founded on the basis of mutual interest, common political ideals and similar ways of life. In reply,"  President  Roosevelt re-affirmed his abiding sentiment of goodwill towards the Government and people of Australia, and expressed the confident hope that the exchange of Ministers between the United States of America and Australia would tend to strengthen still further the friendly relations between his country and the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
The survey I have given will have shown how many doubtful elements there are in the prospect, not merely in the actual theatre of war, but also in the alignment of political and diplomatic forces generally. So far as the enemy is concerned, the German leader is a desperate and determined man, with a deep-seated lust for power, and under his control is a mighty fighting force. He is not bound by any scruples of morality and legality, and at any moment he thinks fit, he may make new moves which would involve new langers. To face such possibilities the British Empire and its Allies will need nil their determination and courage and the fullest organization of their resources, ft is the Government's  firm resolve,  and I am positive, the resolve of the whole «f the Australian people, that Australia  should  play its full part in removing from the world this evil force which threatens all we hold most vital. 
.- In the speeches made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  and the mover and seconder of the Address-in-Reply, great stress was laid upon the fact that Parliament is now meeting  under very grave circumstances indeed. Assurances of support received from all sections of the community, and from all parties in this Parliament, are gladly welcomed by the Government, because it is recognized that the tremendous task in which Australia is now engaged as an integral part of the. British Empire, is one that will require all our energy and ingenuity, and great sacrifice, if victory is to be achieved. The Leader of the Opposition referred to what was one of the most stirring addresses to which I have ever listened - the speech delivered in this chamber yesterday by  Mr. Grenfell,  a member of the English House of Commons, who has come to Australia right from the very scene of conflict. One phase of his address that impressed me more than any other was his emphasis of the complete unity which exists in Great Britain to-day among all sections of the community, in their determination to prosecute this war to a successful conclusion. Great Britain and its Allies can be justly proud of the fact that they played no part whatever in provoking this struggle, but rather did they make almost superhuman efforts and great sacrifices in an endeavour to avoid it. But having been faced with a. definite threat to the freedom of all democratic peoples, Great Britain and France had no choice but to take up t he challenge, and devote all their energies towards ultimate victory, which we all sincerely hope will come at a very early date. 
I have referred to statements regarding unity made by  Mr. Grenfell,  because I believe that that great co-operation which is now so evident in Britain among all sections of the community is unfortunately lacking in Australia at the present time. I do not wish to be unnecessarily controversial in the course of this speech, but I should like for a moment to direct attention to the fact that, almost at this moment, the Prime Minister is on his way to the coal-fields of New South Wales with the object of making an appeal to the miners who are now on strike to go back to work, and help Australia through in the big task it has undertaken as a member of the British Commonwealth of Nations. It is unfortunate that one of the leaders of the unions that are now engaged in the dispute has published a' statement to the effect that' before this disturbance is finished, every industry in 
Australia will be tied up. That is a definite challenge to law and order and to responsible government which cannot be neglected by any government in this country. 
That may be so, but I think that honorable senators opposite will agree that it was an unfortunate statement. Further, I sincerely trust that the dispute, and in fact, all disturbances of 'this nature, will soon be ended. In. times such as these, we cannot afford to contemplate a further industrial dislocation of this kind. There is no necessity for industrial upheavals in this country. This is one country in which there should never be industrial turmoil of any "kind, because we have the most up-to-date and most humanitarian industrial legislation in the world. Our modern arbitration machinery has been brought about largely as a result of the efforts of organized labour itself, and I pay tribute to organized labour for its achievements in that regard. But having obtained, the arbitration machinery by its own efforts, and the assistance of those who are in sympathy with the people whose responsibility it is to fight the industrial battles of this country, organized labour should ensure that that machinery shall be kept in operation for the amicable settlement of all industrial disputes. 
The Leader of the Opposition has had years of experience in industrial matters, and he knows exactly how these courts function; he knows what limited powers are possessed by an individual judge in making an award ; he knows that although an award is made by a judge an appeal may be made by either party to the Full Court. 
The miners and the mine-owners have exactly the same privileges in the courts", and the same right to lodge an appeal from the decision of an individual judge. If they are not satisfied with a decision the unions may, if they so desire, utilize the appeal machinery of the courts. Surely they would not deny to the mine-owners the same right. I assure the Leader of the Opposition that I do not propose to take any side in this dispute. The one desire of all of us - the Government, the Opposition, and certainly the Prime Minister, who has gone to the seat of the trouble - is to see the matter satisfactorily settled, so that the industries of this country may play their full part in a supreme war effort. It must be realized that these are grave days for Australia, and for every other part of the Empire. During the last two weeks we have witnessed the spectacle of Nazi domination being enforced upon two of the most peace-loving countries of the world, Denmark and Norway. Neither of these countries had exhibited a desire to participate in the war; they desired only to be allowed to continue their national life in their own ways. Denmark is almost entirely a primary producing country, and Norway is loved by all who as tourists hav"e had an opportunity to see its natural beauties. Without warning these countries were overrun; their youth was killed, and a war which hitherto they have avoided by the maintenance of strict neutrality, was forced upon them. Can we honestly believe that the lot which has befallen these countries will not be' ours should an unscrupulous power, such as Germany, decide to bring war to our shores? Unfortunately the law of the jungle is operating in the world to-day. We must be up and doing, and we must realize that there is no room for any division of opinion amongst the Australian people. We should have one common desire to go forward in a determined manner, and ensure that Australia plays its part with other members of the Empire in the effort to' achieve victory. As one who has a big responsibility in connexion with a very important part of the war effort, namely the building and construction side - a fact which gives me membership of the War Cabinet - I assure honorable senators that the Government desires the help of all members of this Parliament; as well as of every citizen of this country. It should not be necessary for me to sa'y that during the last six months the task of Common- wealth Ministers has been far from easy. I am aware, of course, that the Government has been subjected to some criticism in respect of a number of minor matters, but in view of the magnitude of the Government's responsibility- rit has been, probably, the most colossal task ever entrusted to any government in the history of this country - Ministers may fairly claim some credit for what has been done. Not only were we obliged to build up huge defence requirements in Australia itself, but we also had to make all arrangements necessary to equip and despatch the first section of our overseas expeditionary force. We were .greatly relieved when news came of the safe arrival of the first convoy of the Australian division- in Palestine, where our men are now undergoing further training. In addition, we had to prepare for the defence of Australia itself. As I have pointed out on other occasions, our home defence organization had been allowed to lag very seriously in recent years. Our militia forces had been depleted and, as many training centres had been abolished altogether, it was necessary, simultaneously with the despatch of an overseas expeditionary force, to organize for home defence. Special attention ' had to be given to coastal defences. Immediate steps were taken to increase the strength of the navy, and a tremendous amount of work had to be undertaken in connexion with aircraft construction. Our difficulty was the shortage of skilled mechanics with a knowledge of aircraft construction, because, up to the outbreak of the war, we had done but little of that class of work, and consequently there were not available anything like the number of men required. But I am glad to be able to say that very satisfactory progress has been made, and I am sure that if honorable senators could spare time during the week-end to visit any of our training schools they would be much heartened by what they would see. Large numbers of young trainees are rapidly becoming expert tradesmen in this particular class of work. Honorable senators could get a practical demonstration "of what is being' done in Canberra, where a considerable number of young men, including many from my own State of 
Queensland, are receiving instruction in the mechanical side of aircraft construction, and training as ground personnel for the Empire Air Training Scheme. A few days ago, when I visited one of our technical colleges in this city, I was told by the instructors that they were exceedingly pleased with the rapid progress that was being made by the trainees, who were proving that, given the opportunity, they could hold their own with other young men from any part of Australia. I mention this matter  at the outset of . rr,y speech this morning in order to impress upon honorable senators that the Government is bending the whole of its energies' to the successful prosecution of this war. On the works side, which comes under my department, the work already  carried  out has involved an expenditure of several millions of pounds. At short notice, we were called upon to establish a large number of new camp sites for the training of our young men, also new hospitals, and in connexion with pur work under the Empire Air Training Scheme, we have provided air bases in various parts of Australia. These will prove valuable adjuncts to our main defence scheme. Last night one honorable senator opposite made reference to the measures taken by the Government for the defence of the north of Australia. I can assure the Senate that all the necessary defence measures in that part of the Commonwealth are proceeding apace. The works being carried out at Darwin for our air base, and also at Townsville and Amberley in Queensland, as well as at Port Moresby in Papua, are rapidly nearing completion. 
I come now to the statement made last night by  Senator Arthur  relating to the measures taken by the Government to encourage the discovery of flow oil in Australia. The honorable senator's speech was one of the most amazing to which I have ever listened in this chamber. It was amazing because the honorable gentleman used his privileged position as a member of this Senate not merely for the purpose of ventilating a personal grievance, which, of course, he had every right to do, but also for the purpose of "boosting" a company with which, apparently he is actively associated.  His  attitude last night was most improper. I say this without desiring to lecture him on parliamentary ethics. Doubtless the honorable senator considers that he is the best judge of his own conduct.  Senator Arthur  had much to say about the Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee, which comes under the administration of my department, particularly in relation to its differences with a  Mr. Steinbuchel,  an alleged oil expert from America.' It is fitting, therefore, that I 'should furnish the Senate with the full history of the circumstances surrounding the admission to Australia of  Mr. Steinbuchel,  and his activities since he has been in this country. One would imagine, listening to  Senator Arthur,  that  Mr. Steinbuchel,  had been harshly treated by the Department of the Interior, and by me as the Minister in charge of that department. The facts will disclose otherwise. This man arrived in Australia on the 1st July, 1938, on a tourist's permit the conditions of which are clearly set out - 
Notice to FOREIGN Visitors. 
Foreigners who are permitted to enter Australia as bona fide tourists or visitors, are reminded that the authority for their stay in the Commonwealth is limited to a period of six months from the date of arrival and that they are expected to make arrangements for departure from Australia within that period unless, in exceptional cases, they obtain permission from the Department of the Interior, Canberra, to extend their  stay 
Persons admitted as tourist visitors arc also notified that it is not permissible for them to take up lucrative employment whilst in Australia, without the authority of the Minister for the Interior. 
Notice of intention to leave Australia should be given to the Collector of Customs at the port of intended embarkation ; and any representations for extension of time should also be made through the Collector of Customs at the principal port in the State in which the applicant happens to be staying. 
As was pointed out by  Senator Arthur, Mr. Steinbuchel,  shortly after his arrival from the United States of America, set about promoting companies for the purpose of discovering flow oil in Australia.  
Well, I will say that he promoted two companies. Because of his claim that be bad special knowledge as a geophysicists a considerable number of people in this country were persuaded to invest their money in those companies.  Senator Arthur  last night issued a challenge to the effect that if the Government would give to his company £10,000- 
Yes, and if the company did not produce flow oil within twelve months, he would resign his seat in the Senate. 
I think £10,000 is too high a price to pay in order to get  Senator Arthur  out of this chamber. I am sure that we shall be able to do that much more cheaply at the next election. As regards  Mr. Steinbuchel,  I can say without fear of successful contradiction that he has had an extraordinarily generous deal from me since I have been Minister for the Interior. Some time age he came to me, representing that he had special expert ability and was convinced that, if given a reasonable opportunity, he would be able to find oil in this country. He asked that I should consent to an extension of his permit to remain in Australia. Similar requests came from members of the general public who had been induced to put their money into the companies which  Mr. Steinbuchel  had promoted, and from a number of members of Parliament. These people said in effect, " This man appears to us to have some new process for the discovery of oil. He seems to know something about oil. He has visited our district and after listening to what he has told us, we have invested some of our money in his companies; but just when his works programme is about to start the Government intends to send him out of the country. If he goes we shall lose our money, and we shall not have had an opportunity to prove the existence of oil in Australia." I granted an extension of six months in order that  Mr. Steinbuchel  might have a reasonable opportunity to prove his claim and do justice to the shareholders of his companies. That was in the middle of last vear. "When the extended term ex- pired  at the end of December I was again approached by a company which he had floated, as well as by a number of  people  who are financially interested in the concern. They represented that their operations were nearing completion, and that if  Mr. Steinbuchel  had another extension of six months he would be able to prove his claim to discover oil in this country, after which he would be ready to leave Australia. I extended the permit for another six months, making the total extended time twelve months, in order to safeguard the interests of these shareholders. This means that  Mr. Steinbuchel  has been in Australia for two years and although he has been actively engaged in this business, he has not yet found a bucketful of oil, despite his claims to be an oil expert. 
I am loath to deal with this matter in a personal way. 
In company with  Senator Arthur  and the  chairman  of his company he has been holding meetings in various parts of the country, and has made absurd charges against the Government's policy and especially against members of the Oil Advisory Committee, alleg-&lt;  ing that they were merely the tools of the major oil companies.  Senator Arthur  made this charge last night. 
The honorable senator repeats the charge this morning. "Who are these alleged emissaries of the major oil companies? One is  Dr. Wade,  who has served  the Commonwealth Government for very many years as a geologist and  chairman  of the Oil Advisory Committee.  Dr. Wade  has had life-long experience in oil geology. Thirty years ago he discovered in Egypt an oil well which is still producing. This is the man who, according to  Senator Arthur,  is an emissary of the major oil companies ! Another member of the Oil Advisory Committee is  Dr. Woolnough,  whose position as geological adviser to the Commonwealth entitles him to every respect.  His  record is equal to- - indeed it is better than - that of some of the people who have made these charges against him.  Dr. Woolnough  is wellknown throughout Australia as a man who has rendered very good service to the Commonwealth. Another gentleman who has been attacked is  Dr. Keith  Ward, of South Australia. 
And a very able one. I ask honorable senators from South Australia whether there is any ground for the suggestion that  Dr. Ward  is likely to be the paid tool of the major oil companies. I do not object to  Senator Arthur  disagreeing with the policy of the Government, or holding opinions different from those of the Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee, but I do resent his using his position in this Senate to besmirch the good name of decent men and faithful public servants. He said, not only that they are in the pay of the major oil companies, but alao that four out of the six State governments fall within the same category. 
The share-pushing representatives of the company, with which the honorable senator is associated, went to Tasmania.  Major Davies,  who occupies a high and honorable position in that State, is not a member of my political party, but he is respected from one end of Tasmania to the other. I personally have the greatest respect for him. He made certain inquiries into the activities of this company, through officers of his department, and, after satisfying himself that the claims of those who had gone to that State mainly for the purpose of selling shares were not justified, he issued a warning to the public to be careful how they invested their money, and in what companies they invested it. He, too, has been accused of being an emissary of the major oil companies. 
The Premier of Victoria,  Mr. Dunstan,  also was charged with being influenced 'by those companies. He saw fit to advise Victorians to be careful, and to make inquiries before being led away by false promises in regard to the activities of a certain company.  Mr. Hogan,  the Minister for Mines in that State, has a capable staff of geological experts in his department. There is no more capable geologist in Australia than  Mr. Baragwanath,  who is at the head of the Mines Department of Victoria. Messrs. Dunstan and 
Hogan merely said that, before the statements of the representatives of this company  were  accepted, it was desirable to consider what the officers of the Mines Department had to say. They desired to see something of the mysterious instrument of which Steinbuchel boasts, and which is "kept locked up lest anybody might see it.  Mr. Dunstan  did right in warning the people to make inquiries for themselves. He did not urge them to refrain from becoming shareholders of the company, but he asked them to satisfy themselves as to whether they could trust its representatives. The bulk of the money raised by companies of this kind consists of the savings of poor people who are induced to become shareholders by promises of fortunes for the investment of a few shillings. 

 Mr. Playford, the Premier of South Australia, is also, apparently, in the grip of the major oil companies. He made inquiries for himself, and decided that he would not allow wild-cat schemes to be put. into operation in South Australia. 
He also said that he had no leases to give to the company. The reason he gave was that, as Premier of South Australia, he was anxious to protect the people of that State. Then the scene changes to the State of New South Wales. Until the company laws in that State were recently amended, this was the part of Australia in which mining ventures of this description usually originated.  Mr. Vincent,  the Minister for Mines, and the officers of the Mines Department in that State have reputations in the mining world which stand as high' as the reputations of similar officials in any other part of Australia.  Mr. Vincent  made inquiries from his officers into the extravagant claims by Steinbuchel, and corrected some of the statements which that person had made. He, too, advised the people of his State to be careful, and he pointed out that the practice of share-pushing in connexion with this company should not be encouraged. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon  J.  B. Hayes). -  The honorable senator had a fair opportunity last night to state  his case, and he must now allow the Minister to reply without interruption. 
SenatorFOLL. - The honorable senator was very free in his accusations regarding men who are not here to defend themselves. I do not object to criticism of myself, because I am in a position to answer any charges made, hut officials of my department, officers of the various Mines Departments, and the Premiers of the States concerned should not be unfairly attacked, seeing that they are not in a position to reply to the charges made. What would  Mr. Vincent  have to gain by trying to prevent the discovery of flow oil in New South Wales. It would' be most natural for him to desire nothing more than that oil should be produced in Australia on a commercial scale. He warned thepeople to ascertain first whether the representatives of this company were men with whom  they could trust their money. 
-That is so. 

 Senator Arthur also made a bitter attack on the Government of Queensland for a contract entered into with the Shell Oil Company in connexion with the search for oil in that State. 
That is true. I repeat that, in my opinion, the contract entered into by  Mr. Forgan  Smith and the other members of the Queensland Government is a wise one. By making available large areas of land for oil prospecting purposes, that government adopted the most practical way of discovering flow oil, and the way least likely to cause poor shareholders to lose their money. Not only the people of Queensland, hut the people of the whole of Australia are safeguarded by the agreements that have been made, andfor which, to some extent, the Department of the Interior is responsible. Members of the Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee had it represented to them times out of number that one of the diffi culties in raising finance for the purpose of a proper search for oil in Australia was the absence of uniform state legislation. I asked  Dr. Wade  how he thought this difficulty could be overcome. The matter was discussed with the Premiers of the various States, and I undertook, on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, to ask the Oil Advisory Committee and its staff to draw up a model measure which, if adopted by all of the State Parliaments, would enable uniform action throughout the States. It follows the lines of the British Oil Search Act, and is almost identical with the New Zealand statute. As the result of the New Zealand legislation, encouragement has been given to those searching for oil, and boring on an extensive scale is now being carried out in that Dominion with good prospects of success. I am proud of the fact that this legislation was drafted on the advice of the Oil Advisory Committee and submitted to the Premiers of the various States for their consideration. Most of them adopted it as likely to meet the requirements of Australia. It was not a party measure, for the States that adopted it have governments of varying political beliefs. The measure was accepted in Queensland with additional safeguarding amendments, and it is regarded as the best piece of oil legislation on the statutebooks. On account of limitations in the Commonwealth Constitution, which leaves lands under the control of the States, the Commonwealth Government could not enact legislation of this kind; therefore, uniform action by the States is necessary. 
My decision to extend the time in which  Mr. Steinbuchel  could stay in Australia was given in order that there could be no suggestion that he was being deprived of an opportunity to carry out his promise to obtain oil, or to put his system into operation. In two years he has had a fair opportunity to give effect to his scheme. I have received a number of letters from organizations which protested against the extension of his time. These communications were not from the major oil companies but from people who had had business relations with  Mr. Steinbuchel  in Australia. In October, some months after I had granted the second extension, I received a letter in connexion with this matter from a Well known firm  of solicitors. I notified all of the companies that had any association with  Mr. Steinbuchel  that I had given the extension to him on the understanding that he would use it to finalize his drilling programme, and that, at the conclusion of the period, no further extension would be granted in any circumstances.  His  own company thanked me for that letter, and said that it had noted the conditions. ' The letter that I received from the firm of solicitors was written on behalf of the Great Eastern Oil Company, and is as follows : - 
Our client was astounded to get your letter at all for it has not now and has not had for more than six months past, any dealings or connections of any kind whatsoever with this man Steinbuchel. He resigned from our client's board on or about the 10th June, 1939, though the board refused to accept the same formally because of the company's unpaid commitments entered into by it at his instigation and because of his promise of financial assistance which was never forthcoming. 
Secondly, our client feels that it is nothing short of a catastrophe that this man has been granted an extension of time within which he can pursue his peculiar schemes of selling in an illegal manner, mostly, shares in his two companies (viz. Producing Oilfields Limited, and Producers Oil-Well Supplies Limited) to the large number of unfortunate persons whom he refers to as " jay suckers ". 
Steinbuchel and/or those associated with him have quite evidently stated in their correspondence with your Department that ho (Steinbuchel) was necessary in Australia (inter alia) to supervise and guide the activities nf our client's operations at Dutson in Gippsland. 
 This claim is not only fantastic, but is definitely untrue and therefore fraudulent. 
Rather more than six mouths ago our client became painfully aware of the type of man it was associated with in Steinbuchel and cut the painter absolutely and gave instructions to its chief man at Dutson to prevent Steinbuchel and any of his associates: who might endeavour to go upon tho company's licence al Dutson and in consequence it is more than six months since Steinbuchel has been on our client's bore Rite 
Yet. as recently as the 31st March last a photograph was published in the  Sunday Sim,  Sydney, of the Dutson No. 1 bore, and beside the photograph the following statement appeared, " These seven wells were located and are now being supervised by  Mr. Steinbuchel,  the 
American oil producer ". The letter continues - 
Notwithstanding these facts, Steinbuchel has continued constantly to advertise in various newspapers in Victoria and New South Wales to our client's knowledge (and probably elsewhere without our client's knowledge )  that he is geological and geophysical adviser to our company client. 
Further, our client has seen posters and leaflets which have been broadcast in the two States mentioned (particularly in New South Wales) wherein he makes the same fraudulent claims either directly or by implication. Nevertheless, our client has been powerless to stop it for want of funds to take the necessary legal action-. . . . 
Here is another set of actual facts. Steinbuchel was fortunate enough to get on to the boards of his companies a  Mr. Ralph  Falkner. the well-known grazier. 
This gentleman then left Australia for an extended trip abroad, and after the offences by. Steinbuchel first mentioned above, forwarded his resignation, which was accepted according to a minute of Producers Oil-Well Supplies Board at a meeting held on the 29th July, 1939. 
In spite of this, Steinbuchel instituted a campaign to gather in fresh " suckers ". In New South Wales in the district where  Mr.  Falkner's  name is a by-word for probity and intelligence, and used the literature (?) he possessed showing  Mr. Falkner  to be still a member of the board. 
At a meeting of this board held on the 1st September, 1939, the board purported to rescind the resolution accepting the resignation. 
Then the board at that meeting passed this amazing resolution - 
Resolved that  Mr.  Falkner's  name be retained on the company's literature and that he be granted twelve months' leave of absence. 
That resolution was passed after  Mr. Falkner  had resigned as a director of the company. I do not think that it is necessary to go further into matters of this kind. I have given to honorable senators some idea of the methods that have been adopted by these people in order to float their companies. Last night  Senator Arthur  referred to Steinbuchels police record. At the Melbourne City Police Court he was fined £10 for carrying an unregistered pistol, and £2 for having brought an unregistered pistol into Victoria. I do not stress that fact, however, because  Senator Arthur  said that Steinbuchel carried the pistol with him for the purpose of shooting rabbits when in the country!- All I can say is that it would have been better for the shareholders of these companies had Steinbuchel continued to shoot rabbits. I repeat that I have given Steinbuchel more than ample opportunity to demonstrate his ability to find oil in this country. He has had two years in which to carry out his search. He is not a geophysicist. Our investigations in- the United States of America have demonstrated that fact very clearly. He was known as a diviner in the United States of America, and in that country divining for oil is illegal. He straps his instrument around his waist. It has on the top of it a spring which is supposed to waggle when oil is approached. Apparently the only time it waggles is when Steinbuchel approaches towns where his agents are ready to sell shares. Again I say that this man has been given every opportunity to prove his ability .to find oil. Whilst our investigations into his record in the United States of America do not reflect upon his personal character, they do not reveal any ability on his part to find oil. The show that he was mixed up with speculative ventures which were generally unsuccessful. I would not have raised that aspect of the subject, but for the attack made by  Senator Arthur  last night upon certain public officers. The campaign on behalf of Steinbuchel has been going on in the various States for a considerable period. I extended his stay in Australia for an additional twelve months primarily in an effort to safeguard the interests of the people who have invested in his companies.  Senator Arthur  declared that even if Steinbuchel be obliged to leave Australia at the date now fixed for his departure, the companies with which he has been connected intend to continue boring. In that case Steinbuchel's presence in this country is not essential to enable those companies to complete their  boring operations. So far as I am concerned, after the 4th June next, they will complete their borings without his assistance. 
I propose now to refer briefly to the Government's general policy in relation to oil production. Some years ago the Government transferred the sum of £250,000 to a special trust fund for the purpose of assisting in the search for oil in Australia, and it set up the Oil Advisory Committee to help in this work. This money was made available to companies after the Government's experts had visited the sites of proposed wells and were satisfied that a reasonable chance existed of finding oil on those sites. Advances made in this connexion total some thousands of pounds, but in addition the Commonwealth Government purchased plant to the value of £90,000 with the intention of renting it to legitimate companies. At present a good deal of the plant is being used by different companies under that arrangement. In addition, a Government subsidy was paid to such companies at the rate of £1 for each £2 expended, on condition that bores were put down on sites approved by the Government's expert. To date, however, results have been very disappointing. Oil has been discovered at several places, but in no instance in commercial quantities. On  Senator Arthur's  own showing, Steinbuchel visited Roma, and subsequently summed up the prospects of oil being found there by stating that there was no oil there and advising  Mr. John  Wren, who was interested, to keep his money in his pocket. Honorable senators are aware, however, that oil does exist at Roma. They realize that the difficulty up to date has been to produce it in commercial quantities. Oil is still being found at Roma, and that site offers, perhaps, the brightest prospects of providing oil in commercial quantities. The honorable senator also referred to the Gippsland oil-fields. Wells are being bored on the Lakes Entrance field, under government supervision. A well was put down on the Austral Company's lease, work on this well being subsidized by the Government on. a £1 for £1 basis. At present those operations are being watched closely. However, this . work also has to date been disappointing. The Government will assist that company to put down another bore at a site which has been selected by geophysicists. It wishes to exploit every possible chance of producing oil in commercial quantities on that field. Furthermore, this Government is co-operating with the Government of Victoria in a programme of scout drilling. We are putting down six wells in different parts of the Gippsland field, the cores from which will be submitted to experts for tests in respect of porosity and permeability. In this way we hope to obtain further knowledge which will be of valuable assistance in the search for oil.  Senator Arthur  is suspicious of the major oil companies, but I believe that if those companies can be induced to undertake a vigorous search under government control, our prospects of finding oil will be far brighter .than if we rely on blind stabbing of the kind that he is defending. 
The Vacuum Oil Company has already expended nearly £1,000,000 in searching for oil in Papua. Recently that company delivered to its site in Papua, under the most difficult circumstances possible, a plant valued at £200,000. Does  Senator Arthur  suggest that this, company is spending so much money merely for fun, or in an endeavour to discourage the finding of oil? 
Is the honorable senator aware that nearly £1,000,000 has been spent by the oil companies in the search for oil in Papua ? Does he know that the Commonwealth Government itself spent about £500,000 in" boring for oil in Papua? At one time, it. is true, our prospects of discovering oil looked very bright, but, unfortunately, they were not realized. 

 Siding suspended from 1245 to 2.15 p.m. 

I believe that I have made it quite clear that the Government has given  Mr. Steinbuchel  a reasonable time to give effect to his promise, mid it is not my intention to extend his permit to remain in Australia beyond the 4th June next. I was surprised to hear  Senator Arthur  interject that after the next election, when I presume he imagines the Labour party will be in power, a Labour government will bring the man back to Australia. Is that the considered opinion of the party opposite? 
I trust that it is. I realize that honorable senators are interested in the search for oil in Australia and the territories under our control, in portions of which extensive boring programmes are being carried out. The  chairman  of the Oil Advisory Committee informed me recently that a group of companies similar to those operating in Papua is also operating in Dutch New Guinea, within a few miles of the Papuan border, and has recently discovered oil in commercial quantities. I understand that some of the bores are producing 2,000 barrels daily, and that in another area commercial oil has been discovered at a depth of 5,000 feet. 
I am not prepared to mention the names. I have merely cited these instances to show that we have encouraging hopes in the territories referred to, and I am sure that every one is looking forward to the time when satisfactory results will be achieved. 'I can assure honorable senators opposite that we are just as anxious as they are that oil should be discovered in Australia or its territories, because, as  Senator Arthur  said in his concluding remarks, fuel oil is the life-blood of a nation. The Government realizes what production of fuel oil in Australia would mean to this country, and for that reason it has assisted the production of oil from shale, and in a general way has given every encouragement to legitimate companies to search for oil. 
Presumably Parliament itself is answerable for that, because the report was presented and published several years ago. Doubtless it can still be discussed. 1 regret the circumstances that have made it necessary to introduce the personal element into the discussion of oil exploration, but in the interests of the public the real position had to be explained. 
.- This is one of the occasions on which senators on this side of the chamber have an opportunity to offer a few comments on the administration and general activities of the Government. When the Minister  (Senator Foll)  said that the time of  Mr. Steinbuchel  will not be extended beyond the 4th June,  Senator Arthur  interjected  that when a Labour government is in power he will be brought back to Australia. The Minister then asked whether that is the considered opinion of this party. I say definitely to the Minister that that is not the considered opinion of this party, and that when Labour assumes office the position of  Mr. Steinbuchel  will be governed on its merits by the Minister in consultation with his responsible officers. Neither the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings), Senator Arthur,  nor any other honorable senator on this side of the chamber is in a position to give an undertaking as to what a Labour government will do. 
A portion of the Governor-General's Speech reads - 
There is an honest and resolute determination on the part of the vast majority of Australians, whether employer or employee, whether rich or poor, to win the war, and no gentle consideration can he extended to those whose real desire is that we should lose it. 
In that paragraph the Government, through  His Excellency,  has expressed frankly the Government's policy, and in fact the policy of all parties in this chamber, because we all are anxious to do what we oan to assist in the successful prosecution of the war. That is a sufficient answer to the charges which have been made that the Labour party is not pulling its weight in this gigantic struggle. In September last we assisted to give the Government an open cheque for £60,000,000, which amount, we expected it to use to meet our defence requirements for the time. The amount which the Government then sought was not challenged by the members of the Opposition, and probably no opposition will be offered when further appropriations are sought within the next few weeks. Whose ever the fault that this country was unprepared for the world crisis which occurred in September last, we have now been forced into a position which must be faced, and it is our bounden duty to assist in every way to defeat the nation which is making such a desperate attempt to interfere with the rights and freedom of other nations. The Government has a huge task before it. and despite what may be said in byelection campaigns, and in propaganda speeches by certain honorable senators in this chamber, and in the House of Representatives, the fact remains that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  at the request of the Government, gave a world-wide broadcast explaining the attitude of the Labour party towards the war.. That gentleman gave a clear and sincere statement of the Labour party's war policy. The Minister  (Senator Foll)  referred to the manufacture of aircraft and the development of other industries. As honorable senators arc aware, certain industrial organizations have entered into an arrangement with the Government with respect to the dilution of labour, and the agreement reached will, I believe, work satisfactorily, despite the utterances which are being made by certain irresponsible persons in Sydney. The dilution of labour was imperative at present,- and the union representatives conferred with the Government, knowing that this policy will prove of great help to Australia. When this Parliament is in recess the Government should have some .means to communicate to  members and honorable senators the latest information concerning important happenings overseas and in this country. When my friends ask me what are the latest developments I have to admit quite frankly that I do not know. In common with others I read conflicting reports in the newspapers or listen to news over the air, which is usually rehashed and relates to events which occurred days before. Moreover, as the news we receive is frequently misleading and contradictory, it is of little use. I have no hesitation in saying that the optimism displayed in Government pronouncements is not justified. I have no military knowledge, but I have ordinary common sense, and as an observant Australian believe that the Allies are not making the satisfactory progress we wish against the most hellish dictatorship the world has ever known. The armies directed by this man have been able to occupy Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Finland; in four or five hours they overran Denmark and invaded Norway and now they threaten to invade Sweden. We have been informed that some German ships have been destroyed and that the Royal Navy is holding its own; but the people of this country should be given the facts. Information should be supplied concerning the policy which Italy is likely to adopt, and whether there is any possibility of an Eastern menace. If accurate information were given we would know exactly what our responsibilities are, and might possibly adopt a different attitude. I admit that the Government was faced over-night with the colossal task of enlarging our air force and standing army, and improving our navy. The work with which the Government has been entrusted has with few exceptions been well done. Yesterday  Senator Sheehan  asked whether the military camp constructed at Torquay, near Geelong, at a cost of nearly £50,000, has been abandoned because the position is too exposed to the weather. It is only reasonable to assume that mistakes will be made in a work of the magnitude of that which the Government is now handling, but I would suggest that the Government should act cautiously and refrain from accepting all the recommendations  made by military officers, who, although good soldiers, may not have experience in other directions. It might be possible even now for some of the less urgent works to be referred to the Public Works Committee and thus avoid unnecessary expenditure. 
The Governor-General's Speech also contains the following paragraph: - 
Pursuant to the policy of making a contribution to peace in the Pacific hy establishing direct diplomatic representation of Australia in selected Pacific countries, my Government has, since the last meeting of Parliament, appointed a High Commissioner to Canada, and a Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States of America. 
Doubtless that refers to  Mr. Casey.  I suggest that that gentleman should be asked to exercise more discretion, because in one of the first speeches he delivered in the United States of America he said that unfortunately the men who founded this country came here under a penal code. This is the same gentleman who, in the course of a speech made in his own electorate, Corio, denied the right of women to take any part in the public life of this country. I suggest that the Government should remind  Mr. Casey  that he is the ambassador of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
The terms used by  Mr. Casey  were actually worse than I have indicated. I am watering them down a little, because I rather like the gentleman.  Mr. Casey's  appointment to Washington was one . with which I did not wholly agree, and now I can see why it was made. Without wishing to be in any way nasty, I suggest that had the honorable gentleman remained in Australia, in all probability, he would not have been a member' of this Parliament after the next election. As I have said,  Mr. Casey's  speech was indiscreet and I hope that the Government will keep an eye on him. 
We have heard much about the coal strike which is now in progress. 1 draw attention to the fact that a similar position arose during the term of office of the Scullin Government. Men were out of work, and industry was paralysed ; the community could not get coal, and the miners could not make a living. On that occasion  Mr. Scullin  brought the employers and unionists together, and settled the strike in less than a week. I say to this Government that if any workers ever had a fair industrial " grouse ", these men in the coal-mining industry have one- 
The union leaders are the dominant figures in this dispute, but I do not know that  Mr. Nelson,  for instance, is a Communist. The award in question was made by a single judge after a hearing lasting nine months. It provided a 40-hour week for all employees, whether underground or on top. The employers then went to the court under the provisions of a section which, to my mind, should not be in the act. The Scullin Government endeavoured to remove it, but was unsuccessful. The Full Court, by a two-to-one decision, quashed the award. One of the two  judges who gave the majority decision was Judge Piper, who admitted that, he has had no knowledge of the coal-mining industry. Considerable criticism has been levelled against various members of our judiciary, and I draw attention to the fact that, on one occasion the Government took an advocate representing the mine-owners right from, the midst of an industrial argument, and made him a judge. That gentleman did not take part in the proceedings now under consideration, but his appointment is one of the many actions which have destroyed the confidence of the people in our arbitration system. It is a fact that all appointments to the Arbitration Court have been made by governments composed of the political parties of which honorable senators opposite are members. Despite that, however, the Labour party stands for the principle of arbitration. The over-ruling of Judge Drake-Brockman's award is one of the biggest scandals this country has ever known. The people tho subject of this strike represent only about 8 per cent or 9 per cent of the workers in the industry, and they have very little to gain. They have always observed the awards under which they work, even when their conditions were not so favorable as those applying to fellow-employees such as enginedrivers, fitters, turners or carpenters, and they expect, the mine-owners to do likewise. 
Were the miners' conditions ever worse than those of the workers to whom the honorable senator lias referred?  (Senator KEANE. - Yes, in scores of cases. Would the Government dare require tradesmen such as engineers and blacksmiths, &amp;c, who for years have worked the hours pertaining to their particular industries, to work longer hours than those provided in their awards? Surely all the industrial activities of this country should not be held up because a dispute has arisen among S per cent, or 9 per cent, of the workers in the coal industry. Why does not the Government admit that the real reason for its non-intervention is that it fears that the granting of a 40-hour week to the miners, will not be the only outcome? The mine-owners are not the only ones who do not want this award to be upheld ; employers generally are afraid of it. Mr. Sanderson, a member of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, has written a considerable amount about how unions do not observe awards. Apparently, in his opinion, the employers are always right, and the employees are always wrong. 
Yesterday, I asked the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  the following, question : - 
Will the Minister for the Interior supply the Senate with a list of the industries covered by the Arbitration Inspector, and the amounts recovered in respect of each industry to dato. 
Mark you, the industries are all "black coat " industries ; they are the banks, insurance companies, trustee companies and municipal corporations. The answer given was that in three and a half years the Industrial Inspector had recovered £13,243 from industries in which awards had been flagrantly broken by the employers. Close policing of those industries has been found to be necessary. Even in the Australian Capital Territory, the industrial inspector was instrumental in recovering £712 in one year for breaches of awards by employers. The suggestion of some honorable senators that only the unions defy the courts is ridiculous. There is no foundation for that assumption. According to the report of the Victorian Labour Department, in  Melbourne in June of last year, arrears of wages totalling more than £1,000 were ordered to be paid, and of 900 prosecutions launched by the Labour Department convictions were obtained in 672 cases. For every union that may at times clash with an award, a large number of employers are constantly "lead-weighting" it. I was pleased to be informed by the Minister for the Interior, in reply to a question which I asked, that six or eight new industrial inspectors will shortly be appointed. 
While the Labour party stands for the principle of arbitration, it is not satisfied with arbitration solely by legal men. This Government should do what the Scullin Government was unfortunately unable to do in 1930, and divorce industrial hearings from legal jargon and technicalities. By all means let us have tribunals; but let them he composed of representatives of the employees, representatives of the employers, and an independent chairman. Let us eliminate those legal gentlemen who in the past have had such an unfair advantage over the advocates employed by the workers. 
Let the workers know that when they go to the court, they will deal with men who know something about their, industry. I ha.ve had a considerable amount of experience with our arbitration system, and my opinion is that while arbitrators are no doubt thoroughly qualified legal men, they are not fit to determine industrial condition's. The fault is by no means entirely on the side of the workers; the employers are perpetrating much worse offences. In my opinion, the Commonwealth Government could have, and should have, intervened. It is idle to suggest that leaders such as  Mr. Nelson,  who is alleged to be a Communist, can dominate a dispute so big as this, covering as .it does the States of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland. These men are. officials duly elected by the workers, and as such I accept their authority. The Commonwealth Government has had ample opportunity to intervene in the dispute without any loss of dignity. There is a national crisis; the nation needs coal to keep its vital munition industries in operation. The Commonwealth Government could bring its influence to bear in the same way as did (he Scullin Government in 1930, or as the Hughes Government did during the last war, when a dispute in the same industry was settled. Coal-mining must be regarded as one of the most hazardous occupations in the world. 
The Australian coal-miner is the best paid in the. world. 
The Court shall have jurisdiction to prevent and settle pursuant to this Act, 'all industrial disputes. 
The Government contends that in the present dispute the court cannot intervene unless it is requested by one of the parties so to do. What a stupid contention ! The -judiciary consists of three judges, one of whom is paid £3,000 a year, and the others a little less. They are skilled legal men with all the machinery of arbitration at their disposal. Surely they could easily call a conference under the jurisdiction of the court. It has been stated that a conference will not be called unless either side asks for it. In my opinion, the object of the mine-owners is not only to prevent a 40-hour week in this industry, but also to nullify the whole of an award which has given some measure of justice to the miners during the last few years. There is ample power under the Arbitration Act for the Commonwealth to intervene. The Prime Minister could instruct the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  to intervene, in the interests of the community. If that course were adopted, a settlement could be effected without delay. I do not suggest that the Government is maliciously preventing a settlement, but apparently some sinister influence is at work, or the Government does not appreciate the vast implications of this strike. It is suggested that provision will be made in the Arbitration Act for further penalties. That course was adopted by a former Attorney-General,  Mr. Latham.  The Scullin Government subsequently eliminated the new provisions, and in so doing met with very little opposition from members of the United Australia party, then forming the Opposition. It is generally recognized that the imposition of penalties on striking unions, or on employers who flout awards is futile. The instances in which unions do not observe awards are very infrequent, and I challenge contradiction on that point. My view is that in disputes such as this, direct action should be the last resort. I emphasize that whatever action be taken "to bring about a settlement of this dispute, a conference must ultimately be called. That being so, why did not the Commonwealth Government call a conference seven weeks ago, and so avoid much of the present trouble. Do honorable senators opposite think for a moment that the men enjoy striking? For many weeks no wages are coming into their homes; the men certainly receive strike pay, but it is not very much. The main point at issue in the claim by the miners has already been granted. With all other honorable senators, I regret exceedingly that a dislocation of this kind should have occurred in a period of national crisis, but I point out, that the fact that there is a war on is not the only important factor in the lives of the workers. The dispute has arisen through the interference of the Full Court with an award made by an arbitration judge. In my opinion, there should be no legal provision for such interference. 
How long is it since the decision of the Full Court was given? 
In his speech, the Governor-General also referred to subversive elements that exist in this community. He said - 
My advisers have noted the subversive activities of a relatively small but intensely active body of Communists in Australia; men who have in many instances achieved industrial and other positions of importance which enable them to exercise an influence out of all proportion to their numbers. 
I agree with that. That subversive element is one of the most troublesome in this country. It is, perhaps, more troublesome to honorable senators on thi3 side of the chamber than to supporters of the Government. Members of the Labour party have done everything possible to eliminate Communists from their organizations. When we join the Labour party we sign this declaration. 
I hereby declare that I am not a member nf a Communist organization or part)', or of any political party having objects and methods in any way opposed to the Australian Labour party.- ... 
We stand for the reform, by evolution, of the society in which we live. The Com.munist party favours revolution. That is "the difference between the two ideologies. We fight the Communist party on every possible occasion in order to prevent any linking between Labour and communism. Any statement to the contrary is merely political rubbish. During the recent byelection for Corio in Victoria, there were 54,500 votes cast, and of. that number only 1,800 were in favour of  Dr. O'Day,  a prominent member of the Communist organization. The tactics employed by the Communist party against  Mr. Dedman,  the Labour candidate, left much to be desired. On one occasion when  Mr. 
Mulcahy and I were travelling to Torquay to address a meeting, we saw a gang of men destroying the Labour party's election posters - not the United Australia party signs, be it noted - and substituting for them Communist propaganda. That indicates what the Communists will do against Labour even in a contest that would not arouse the interest of the people as a general election does. The Communist party represents a minority of Australians. Its influence is not good for this country^ and the Labour movement has done everything possible to dissociate itself from the Communists. 
Why, then, do the Communists control the unions? 
Some people have said that it is fortunate that the Labour party is not in control of Australia to-day. I do not agree with them. The present is a time when the Labour party could be of great assistance to this nation if it held the reins of government, because this party does, or should, represent the majority of the electors of Australia. 
 Would a Labour government really govern the country? 
Under the emergency legislation passed during the depression, the Nationalist Government  which succeeded the Scullin Administration cut to the bone the incomes of pensioners ana wage-earners. That was done with the full support of the Country party, and was opposed by the Labour party. During the succeeding election United Australia party candidates were miserable and dirty enough to pervert the facts in order to defeat Labour. These are some of the reasons why the Labour party has not held the reins of government during the last eightyears. We on this side will always be proud of the record of the Scullin Government. Its achievements were as notable as those of the late  Mr. Savage,  for many years the Prime Minister of New Zealand. Labour never had control in this chamber. If it had been in that happy position, by its legislative enactments, it could have helped the unfortunate workers to secure a. smooth system of arbitration, and it would have been possible to give aid to the men on the land during and since the depression. I could give many . more reasons why Labour has not been in control in this Parliament. 
In 1929 the Bruce-Page Government deliberately handed over the government of Australia to the Labour party. It did not even try to contest that election, because it knew that it had exhausted the country's credit,  and  that its financial structure was falling about its ears. Accordingly the Government astutely went to the country with a policy to abolish arbitration, and thus provided a means of escape from the responsibility of governing the country for the next few years. 
This digression has given me the opportunity to dig up a few political corpses; I revel in that task, because, like an elephant, I have a long memory. I shall never forget the past treachery of" the United Australia party, and when the Minister throws a gibe across the chamber that Labour has not been in control in this Parliament, I like to give the reasons. 
I hope that the Government will devote some part of the proceeds of the gold tax to the assistance of the gold-mining indus try itself. It would be well if the Treasurer conferred with the Chambers of Mines of Victoria and Western Australia, and the Australian Workers Union which controls the men employed in that industry, when he is considering a revision of the gold tax legislation. By doing this, he should be able to make some amendment of the law which will be satisfactory to all parties concerned and give to the small men in the industry the encouragement which they need. In all parts of Australia the working miners are the men who actually find the gold. I agree entirely with  Senator Arthur  on that point. The geologists only develop what the " pickologists ", or pick and shovel men, discover. In Victoria, a miner must expend nearly £35 if he wishes to obtain a lease. The same position obtains in all States, although the costs may vary slightly. 
I hope that, even at this late hour, the Government will decide to call a conference with a view to settling the industrial dispute on the coal-fields. I hope also that the committees that have been established to supervise the Government's defence expenditure will do their jobs well, because big leakages may occur unless a good system of policing is instituted. 
What I have said about optimism regarding the progress of the war is justified, because the present position is much graver than it was when the Senate met in September last. At some stage the people of Australia will have to be told the plain unvarnished truth. The accounts which we hear from the radio stations, of the sinking of ships and the damaging of others, and of bodies lying on some shores, are all rubbish. They do not tell what is actually happening. They do not explain why Hitler was given the opportunity to invade Denmark and Norway and to threaten Sweden. As a legislator, I should know something about what is going on. In the long parliamentary recess, which perhaps could not have been avoided by a very busy government, it may have been difficult to keep honorable senators supplied with information, but there should be some means of acquainting us with the progress of the Empire's war effort. If the Government wishes to have the support of this party it shall have it. As was stated by  His Excellency  the Governor-General in his Speech, all parties are sincere in their desire to rid the world of the curse that is now afflicting it. 
I rose mainly to suggest that a saner view be taken of the major industrial trouble now being experienced on the coalfields. There may be Communists among the miners. They may be even here, but as they work underground nobody knows the extent of their activities. The fact that concerns me most is that big armies of men are out of work, and are fighting to retain a principle that they had already won from the Arbitration Court. In my opinion, some effort should be made by the Government, even at this late hour, to intervene in the interests of these men and of the nation. 
.- The Government should be given as much moral support as is humanly possible to enable us to win this war; nevertheless, the duty of the Opposition is to direct attention to the Government's mistakes in the conduct of the war effort. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has successfully covered the ground, I shall not traverse it. 
The method adopted in distinguishing militiamen from members of the Australian ImperialForce gives rise to serious discontent among the returned soldiers who fought in the last war. The original Australian Imperial Force placed Australia on the map in the military sense ; yet members of the Militia do not wear the rising sun emblem, which is sacred to the whole of the people of Australia. Any person bearing arms for the protection of this country should wear the national emblem that was baptized in blood. 
The badges worn at the present time have no special significance. They are useless and should not be worn. 
An application was made some time ago for free rail passes to and from their homes for men rendering service on garrison duty. The matter was taken up with the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  but the request was refused. The Minister said that, if free travelling facilities were granted to members of garrison battalions when on recreation leave, it would be reasonable to extend the privilege to members of the Militia and the Australian Imperial Force, as well as to the Naval and Air Forces. I contend that members of the Australian Imperial Force, as well as men on garrison duty, should receive free travelling facilities when on recreation leave. It would merely be necessary for an agreement to be reached by the governments of the various States in order to enable free railway passes to be granted for this purpose. 
In the course of the prosecution of the war it has been found necessary to organize production, and to place it on a sound basis. An apple and pear board has been set up, and, although last session I severely criticized the action of the Government, I admit that with a few  exceptions the scheme is working satisfactorily in Tasmania. I agree that the principle of the scheme is one that everybody should support, but several things have been done by the board which are not in the best interests of Australia as a whole. The measure passed in connexion with this matter provides that the board shall estimate the crop upon the. basis of 75 per cent, of the production for commercial purposes, and that the grades shall be " fancy " and " extra fancy ". But hundreds of thousands of bushels of apples and pears have been left lying on the ground, and are going to waste. They cannot be sold because they are the property of the board, and for the same reason they cannot be given away. I have before me several apples that have been rejected, and it is said that they cannot be sold. One is a good sample of the Delicious variety, and it has a few hail spots. It is one of a truckful of similar apples that I collected in the Tamar River district and distributed among the poor people in the suburb in which I live. The apple now displayed is of better quality than that of apples obtainable in Canberra to-day at the price of 4 for 6d., and it is a good sample of the fruit that has been rejected in Tasmania and left to rot on the ground. I suggest that fruit of this class should be given to the poor children in' the schools in crowded centres, or sent to our soldiers. The inmates of the hospitals, too, would appreciate some of it. It is of good quality, except that it has a few blemishes which render it unsuitable for storage for export overseas. I trust that the Government will endeavour to devise means of using this fruit instead of allowing it to waste. I could take members of the Government to stores in which rejected apples are lying in heaps as large as this Senate chamber. 
One of my friends whom I know as a member of the "Workers' Educational Association is  Mr. A.  E. Bull. He is one of the managers of the firm of C. H. Smith and Company, and has been engaged in the fruit trade as a selling agent and an exporter to the Old Country. This company sent  Mr. Bull  to England in order to negotiate with a wholesale co-operative society for the purchase of Tasmanian fruit. He built up a substantial trade for his company, which supplied to the society in England nearly 100,000 cases a year. This business has been cut from under the company's feet by the Apple and Pear Board. The company has suffered an injustice, and I suggest that something should be done to increase the number of selling agencies, so that those who, through their own initiative, have built up successful enterprises, may be permitted to carry on their work. 
Those orchardists who produce apples purely for the manufacture of cider, and buy from orchardists other apples that cannot be used for export purposes, still have to sell their fruit to the Apple and Pear Board. I suggest that the board should exempt them from the operation of the scheme. 
Some of them may, but the grower whom I have in mind received no advance, although he could have received one. He pointed out to me the stupidity of taking the advance, and buying back his own fruit from the board. He did not wish to be brought into thu pool, yet he filled in the necessary returns. It seems to me that growers in this position have a grievance that should be removed. 
Some schools in Tasmania have been provided with wireless sets by means of which the scholars are able to listen in to the educational broadcasts made from time to time by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. These sets are mostly supplied by the parents' associations, and I contend that the Government could reasonably exempt such schools from the wireless licence-fee. 
The import duty on moving picture film has been increased by Id. a foot, but it seems to me that persons not using this film for commercial purposes, but merely for photographing beauty spots and for taking pictures of family life, should be exempt from this extra impost. If they are forced to pay this extra impost many people will abandon the movie camera as a hobby. In that event the Government ultimately would lose  considerable revenue. At the same time small businesses which now cater for users of movie cameras in providing supplies and developing services would be forced to close. The value of encouraging a hobby of this kind is, as a family amusement and as means of making historical records, well worth considering. I hope that the Government will give sympathetic thought to the various matters which I have raised. 
 I listened intently to the Governor-General's Speech. Undoubtedly it provides us with much food for thought concerning the difficulties which confront the Government in the present crisis.  1  do not hesitate to give credit where credit is due ; I admit frankly that the Government is trying to do a good job. When one considers our present huge defence expenditure the thought inevitably arises as to why even a small proportion of this money cannot be found to meet our difficulties, social and economic, in a time of peace. Surely industrial peace and social and economic prosperity are as essential to our future welfare as is the provision of effective defence in time of war. 

 Senator Wilson declared that the Labour party had exhibited no desire to assist the Government in the present crisis. Honorable senators on this side have criticized many of the Government's proposals, but it cannot be said that we have ever attempted to obstruct the Government's defence preparations. After all, if the Government is desirous of doing its best for the country it should welcome constructive criticism from the Opposition. So far as the present coal strike is concerned all I can say is that I personally will never support direct action on the part of the miners. A strike injures not only the workers, but also their families. I have no doubt that the Communists are responsible for the present strike. At the same time, however, I see no reason why the Government cannot deal promptly and effectively with this disruptive element. In the first place it could prohibit communistic propaganda. I recall that on one occasion when I took over the secretaryship of a union in Western Australia I found one corner of the union's office piled with Russian propaganda that had been left there by my predecessor. Within half an hour I had destroyed every bit of that literature. 
In his admirable speech  Senator Abbott  asked what was the cause of war. I suggest that armament profiteers are mainly responsible for war. Dealing with the coal strike the honorable senator remarked that not one honorable senator for New South Wales on this side had mounted the soap box or addressed any meeting with the object of trying to bring about a settlement. The honorable senator himself is a representative in this chamber of that State, and I am not aware that he has made any effort in that way to help to effect a settlement of the dispute. I repeat that I have no time for Communism, Fascism or Nazism. Indeed it would be a good thing for this country if the Government could secure an island in the Pacific and deport every Communist in Australia to it. 
I urge the Government, particularly in view of the increased demands being made  upon us in the present crisis, not to disregard the importance of providing for the development of our primary and secondary industries. Despite the fact that numbers of our men are going, on active service overseas much unemployment still exists in this country. It is essential, however, that the wheels of industry shall be kept turning. The following statement was recently issued by the Australian Industries Protection League. It deals with the threat offered to Australian industry by excessive imports : - . 
Australian money is one fourth less in value than that of Great Britain; our overseas interest payments are balanced by exports of all of our newly mined gold, (which we cannot reproduce like wool, wheat, &amp;c.) ; our national debt is increasing; our manufacturing industries are being harassed by never-ending applications from manufacturers of the United Kingdom for reduced duties to enable them to secure some of our trade that Australian workers are now producing. 
Firstly, we see we cannot afford our present imports for monetary reasons, secondly reductions of duty can only mean more imports which will at this juncture, displace workers here who have to be kept by taxation during their unemployment. For instance, if by reducing the present protective duties on woollen piece goods and woollen yarns, overseas manufacturers capture one fifth of the trade now being manufactured in Australia, this would mean unemployment for at least 4,000 persons directly, with a loss of approximately (per year) £580,000 in wages, which the workers now spend locally in weekly quotas, and which provide employment for others. 
A warning of our danger is contained in the  address  given by the Eight Honorable E. G. Casey, Commonwealth Treasurer (Australia) ut tho Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House, London, on the 20th April, 1037. When speaking of the necessity of building up Australian secondary (manufacturing) industries, said: - " The reason why we are trying to do this is linked up, amongst other matters with our unfavorable balance of payments with this country (United Kingdom). "We believe to-day's prices to be high prices. If you take something below to-day's prices as an average for the years ahead we cannot continue, to import goods into Australia at the rate that we are importing them to-day, if we- wish to maintain something like a balance in our balance of payments with the world ... we have to build up a body of money in London as a shock absorber against a bad season or a series of bad seasons in 
Australia..... at the present moment we only get a favorable balance with the world in good seasons..... we cannot afford to keep on importing at the present rate into Australia in the years ahead ". 
When I was in Fremantle recently, I was amazed to see unloaded a consignment of tent pegs- from the eastern States for the use of the Defence Department in connexion with training camps in Westem Australia. One would think we had no timber at all in Western Australia. Is it not ridiculous that of all things the Defence Department's requirements of tent pegs should be sent from the eastern States to Western Australia? Wharf labourers who unloaded the consignment were struck by this stupidity; and they enjoyed the joke immensely. I was pleased to hear the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  say that more consideration was being given to Western Australia's claims in respect of defence expenditure. In the past that State has never seemed to receive the attention of the Commonwealth Government except in matters of taxation. There is too much selfishness in the attitude of the eastern States towards Tasmania and Western Australia. The larger States have never been able to see eye to eye with the smaller States when it comes to development and State rights. I do not mention Queensland or South Australia in this connexion because at present the claims of those States are receiving increasingly greater consideration from the Commonwealth. However, Tasmania and Western Australia have yet to receive a fair deal from this Government. Although the people of Western Australia contribute their share of taxes and suffer many disabilities under the federal system, they receive little consideration. I trust that the Government will give closer attention to the needs of that State, particularly in the matter of defence expenditure. Western Australia is one of the main gateways of the Commonwealth, and when enlistments are sought the number of volunteers offering in Western Australia as greater than in any other part of the Commonwealth. 
Prior to the last recess I asked several questions concerning conditions under which the men on the transcontinental trains are working, and as I was not satisfied with the answers, I asked a further series of questions. The Senate then went into recess. Later I received the full statement from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay). 
On 5th December,  Senator Clothier  asked me for particulars as to the plaints lodged during the past tlir.ee years for hearing by the Public Service Arbitrator which have not yet been dealt with. 
I then informed the honorable senator that the information would be obtained. 
I am now in a position to furnish a statement setting out particulars as to the plaints filed and the dates of filing. 
The statement shows the number of plaints listed and not yet dealt with to be 43. Four additional applications to vary have been filed by the Public Service Board and one hy the Minister for Defence, making a total of 48. There is also one application for interpretation filed by the Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen awaiting hearing. 
Cases Nos. 34, 3G, 38, 41 and 43 appearing in the statement relate to the same matter and will be settled as the result of a conference held on 4th December last. 
The statement is as follows: - 

<graphic href="163332194004195_30_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="163332194004195_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

I also received the following letter from the Attorney-General: - 
On the 5th of December you asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General in the Senate a question relating to the number of plaints lodged during the past three years for hearing by the Public Service Arbitrator which had not boon dealt with. The information on which a reply to your question could be based has now come to hand, but it is too late to reply to your question in the Senate. I am accordingly forwarding herewith a statement setting out the particulars as to the plaints filed and the dates of filing. Cases Nos. 34, 36, 38, 41 and 43, appearing in the statement, relate to the same matter and will be settled as the result of a conference held on the 4th of December last. I may add that steps are being taken to appoint an assistant to the arbitrator and it is hoped that this appointment will result in the speedy clearing off of the cases in arrears. 
On receipt of that letter, I supplied the information to the  West Australian  newspaper, which published the following paragraphs :  - 
The statement that steps were being taken to appoint an assistant to the Public Service Arbitrator and that it was hoped that this appointment would result in the speedy clearing up of outstanding cases, was contained in a letter from the Federal Attorney-General  (Mr. W. M. Hughes)  which has been received by  Senator R.  E. Clothier. This was in reply to a question asked by  Senator Clothier  in the Senate on 5th December relating to the number of plaints lodged during the past three years which had not been heard by the Public Service Arbitrator. 
A statement which accompanied the letter showed the number of plaints listed and not yet dealt with to be 43. Four additional applications to vary had been filed by the Public Service Board and one by the Minister for Defence, making a total of 48. There was also an application for interpretation, filed by the Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen, awaiting hearing. It was also stated that five of the cases which appeared in the statement, namely, those in which the applicants were the Australian Federated Union of Locomotive Enginemen, the Australian Workers' Union, the Electrical Trades Union of Australia, the Amalgamated Engineering Union and the Australasian Society of Engineers, related to the same matter and would be settled as the result of a conference held on 4th December. 
Several days later I received the following communication from the AttorneyGeneral :  - 
Further to my letter of the 14th December, 1939, regarding plaints lodged for hearing by the Public Service Arbitrator, I regret to say that the last paragraph was included through inadvertence. In that paragraph I stated that steps were being taken to appoint an assistant to the arbitrator. On 4th October last the Government announced that, owing to the state of war and the enormous expenditure involved in consequence of the war, the making of the proposed appointment was to be deferred for the present. I greatly regret that, when my previous letter was prepared, this announcement was overlooked. 
Following that letter the following parsgraphs appeared in the newspaper mentioned : - 
The Federal Attorney-General  (Mr. W. M. Hughes)  lias informed  Senator R.  E. Clothier that in a recent letter he inadvertently stated Hint steps were being taken to appoint an Assistant to the Commonwealth Public Service Arbitrator. "On 4th October last,"  Mr. Hughes  wrote, " the Government announced that, owing to the state of war and the enormous expenditure involved in consequence of the war, the making of the proposed appointment was to be deferred for the present. 1 greatly regret that, when my previous letter was prepared, this announcement was overlooked ". 

 Senator Clothier said yesterday that it appeared that the outstanding plaints listed, some of them dating back to 1937, would be held up indefinitely. Considerable ill-feeling and resentment would doubtless be felt at the failure of the Federal Government to carry nut iti) decision to appoint an arbitrator to clear up cases. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator  Allan  MacDonald) adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce whether the Government will give consideration to a proposal that, in order to place the export, of fruit upon a just basis, the system be adopted of granting licences to all firms engaged in the export business last year, the quantity to be exported to be divided pro rata among them on the basis of 1939 exports? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice -  1, What tonnage of scrap iron and pig iron has been shipped to Japan since the outbreak of War? 
What tonnage has been shipped to other neutral countries T 
-The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 
In view of the present international situation it is not the practice to make available for general information particulars of goods exported to specific countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Government lias taken all wolfram produced, and that those engaged in its production are being hampered in their operations by the price not yet having been fixed? 
If so, will the Minister give this matter early attention so that those engaged in the industry may be in a position to make the necessary arrangements to carry on their industry ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that certain lands and/or buildings utilized or proposed to be utilized by the Army- Department for military purposes ha&gt;-« been abandoned or are proposed to be abandoned by the department? 
If so, will the Minister indicate where such lands and/or buildings are situated, the reasons for abandonment, and the total costs involved I 
Yes. 
Lands and buildings have been utilized temporarily for military purposes in a large number of cases to meet requirements as they arose, occupancy being discontinued when the necessity no longer existed. The honorable senator's question is of too general a nature to be answered without special and lengthy investigation; but if the honorable senator will indicate a particular locality in respect of which he desires this information it will be possible to furnish particulars earlier than would otherwise be the case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that very considerable delay takes place between the enrolment and passing of Air Force recruits and the call-up of men selected for service? 
Is it a fact that great dissatisfaction exists among the applicants owing to such delays? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the., following answers: - 
Applicants for certain musterings in which there is a shortage of experienced personnel, notably fitters, are enlisted shortly after completing their tests. The - intake of recruits for aircrew and other musterings depends on the formation of new units and training establishments in accordance with an approved programme. Some period of waiting is, therefore, inevitable, particularly in the early stages, but all suitable applicants are being enrolled in the Air Force Reserve and called up as required. The period between the date of acceptance of- applicants and their enlistment will be reduced as the Empire Air Scheme develops and training facilities are extended. Where it is possible to do so, accepted applicants are being advised of the approximate date, on which their services will be required. 
It has been appreciated that one of the major difficulties in connexion with the scheme would be to satisfy the understandable keenness of applicants to serve immediately after acceptance of their applications. The organization for. training is being .-established in accordance with the programme agreed on at Ottawa by the 'four governments concerned, and it is  not ' intended to depart from this programme.. Preparations so far are well up to schedule. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Was it intended that Australian-built motors and trucks should he supplied to the Australian Imperial Force here and abroad? 
Were orders given for the building of these trucks? 
Have these orders, or a part of them, been cancelled? 
If so, why? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Consideration has been given to the supply of Canadian-built chasses and Australianbuilt bodies for use by the Australian Imperial Force in Australia and abroad. The Australian content of such vehicles is approximately 75 per cent. 
Orders were placed for a certain number of vehicles for despatch abroad. 3 and 4. No. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
How many trucks have been transported to Western Australia for use by the military authorities ? 
Were tenders called in that State for the building of truck bodies; if not, why not? 
Is it a fact that the paint necessary was also transported to Western Australia from the eastern States for the painting of the trucks? 
Were tenders called for the supply of such paint; if so, were handling and transport charges taken into account when tenders were decided on? 
If no tenders were called for the supply of paint, why was not the purchase of paint made in Western Australia? 
One hundred and fifty-five. 
No. The trucks were of two types - utility type and lorries, 30 cwt. and over. T hese vehicles were urgently required for training after the outbreak of war. Central contracts were arranged with Fords and General Motors for supply in each State, complete with bodies. The prices quoted were identical for delivery into Ordnance Stores in each capital city, the transport costs being absorbed by the contractors. The Department of the Army had nothing to do with the contract for the bodies, which, it is presumed, were built under mass-production methods at the. contractors-' factories in Geelong and Woodville. 
This is probably so, as. the special paint for army vehicles is made to War Office specifications by factories in the eastern States. This paint, however, should be available through the manufacturers' agents in each State. 
No. Vehicles are ordered painted, and the contractor supplies the paint. 
This was a matter for the suppliers of the vehicles. In any case, the paint used for army vehicles is not manufactured in Western Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What was the cost per man of transporting the members of the 2nd/11th Battalion of the Australian Imperial Force from Western Australia to their respective camps in Now South Wales and Victoria - giving rail and boat costs ? 
What cost was incurred per man for their return to their home State - rail or boat? 
What was the average number of weeks of training per man in New South Wales and Victoria? 
The average cost was £11 per man for transportation by boat. No rail travel from Western Australia to New South Wales was involved for the 2nd/11th Battalion. 
The average cost was £11 per man for transportation by both boat and rail. 
The average number of weeks of training per man in New South Wales was fourteen weeks. No training was carried out by the 2nd/11th Battalion in Victoria. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What was the approximate cost of sending Western Australian troops in the Australian Imperial Force to the eastern States for training? 
Is it intended to continue this practice? 
What training is given in the eastern States that cannot be afforded to these volunteers in their home State? 
Approximately £29,000 to the end of June, 1040. 
No, except in the case of personnel Tor technical units. 
In the case of signal units, trade qualifications required of personnel are so high that all available sources of man-power in Australia have to be utilized and men have to be chosen from- every State. It is essential to concentrate the complete signal unit for technical and collective training so that efficient communications may be obtained.Reinforcements of Artillery, Engineer, Signal, Army Service 
Corps, and Army Medical Corps units are being sent  to  eastern States for training. In view of the small numbers involved in each monthly reinforcement it is not practicable to train all men in the States in which they enlist. In addition, the decision regarding the concentration for technical training in certain States was reached after careful investigation was made with a view to obtaining the most efficient training with the minimum of expenditure in providing the special facilities required. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon  notice - 
Has any money been made available for enlarging and improving the Wynyard aerodrome? 
If not, can the Minister give an assurance that  there  will be sufficient money made available in the coming financial year to carry out the necessary improvements to that aerodrome? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers: - 
Proposals for the enlargement and improvement of Wynyard aerodrome, which involve considerable expenditure, have been under consideration but owing to reduction of departmental estimates it has not been possible to provide funds for this purpose during this financial year. 
It is not possible at this juncture to give the assurance sought as the provision of funds for improvements to Wynyard aerodrome during the next financial year will depend upon the amount finally appropriated by Parliament for works and civil aerodromes throughout the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Has the Department of Air any intention of acquiring for defence purposes an area of land which is the property of the Bankstown Municipal Council? 
Is it a fact that the council and the Bankstown Agricultural Society have spent a considerable amount of money in establishing a showground on this area? 
In the event of the department acquiring the area, will the Department of Air make adequate compensation in the direction of providing a suitable area of land for a showground, together with improvements similar to those made on the present area? 
The establishment of an aerodrome at Bankstown and the acquisition of an area of land for the purpose is under active consideration of the Air Board. 
The Air Board has no knowledge of this. The board's inspecting officers -were informed by the local council that the possibility of establishing a showground was under consideration but no mention was made of any expenditure having been incurred. 
The acquisition of land, if approved, will be made under the National Security Act, and the usual conditions in regard to compensation payable will be applied. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What was the average price per lb. received for the Australian wool clip in the year 1914-15, and in each succeeding year to date? 
In which years were sales made to the Imperial Government under the acquirement scheme ? 
During which years did B.A.W.R.A. operate? 
In which years were the prices on the gold basis; or what range of exchange prevailed between Australia and Great Britain? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Australian wool - the Commonwealth Statistician's recorded export values per lb. for the years shown were as under: - 

<graphic href="163332194004221_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The British Government acquired the Australian wool clip in November, 1010. It, therefore, acquired part of the 1916-17clip and the total clips for 1917-18, 1918-19, and 1919-20. 
The British-Australian Wool Realization Association (B.A.W.R.A.) was incorporated on the 27th January, 1921, to manage the realization of 1,800,000 bales still on hand when acquirement by the British Government ceased. It disposed of the last bale of wool in its control on the 2nd May, 1924, and made the final distribution to the contributories to the association on the 15th March, 1932. While this was being done, the current clips were also marketed. 
In 1914-15, the Australian currency was on the gold standard. On the 14th July, 1915, Australian currency followed sterling and went off gold. Except for two short periods in 1020-21, when, due to abnormal circumstances, sterling went to a premium, and in 1924, when sterling was at a discount amounting to a maximum of 3½ per cent., the two units of currency remained identical. On the 30th April, 1925, Australia, in company with Great Britain, returned to the gold standard, and the Australian £1 moved to parity with sterling. Australia went off gold in 1929, and Great Britain went off gold in September, 1931. Neither currency has returned to the gold standard since those dates. Subsequent movements of the rate of exchange between Great Britain and Australia were as under: - 
September, 1929 - the Australian £1 was at a discount on sterling of 1 per cent, to 1.4 per cent. 
In 1930, the rate of discount increased to 8.5 per cent. 
In January, 1931, the rate of discount was  19.7 per cent. 
In February, it increased to 30.0 per cent. and remained at that figure until December of that year, when it was reduced to 25.3 per cent. 
In January, 1932, it was stabilized at 25.0 per cent., at which point it has since remained. 
On the 19th April,  Senator James  McLachlan asked the Minister representing the Treasurer the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is it a fact that the Government is the principal shareholder in Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited? 
If so, will the Minister explain the reason for legal proceedings being taken against that company? 
Was the said case dismissed, with costs against the Government, by the Full Court on Wednesday last? 
The Treasurer has now furnished the following answers :  - 
The Commonwealth Government has a majority of shares in the company. 
The Commonwealth considered that the company had invaded the exclusive rights of the Postmaster-General under the Post and Telegraph Act, and was so advised by counsel. 
By a majority of three justices to two, the case was dismissed with costs but without prejudice to any action which the Commonwealth may be advised to bring in relation to the company's obligation to conform to the International Telegraph Conventions of St. Petersburg or Madrid or the regulations annexed thereto. 
I wholeheartedly support the motion. Honorable senators were well aware that this session would be devoted to business arising out of the war. If any doubt existed on that point, it has been removed by the GovernorGeneral's Speech. When Parliament went into recess we were fully alive to the fact that war had been declared, but at that time hostilities directly affecting us had not actually occurred. To-day, however, we are faced with the realities of war; the fight is on, and there can be no retreat. For us it must be either victory or defeat. We were told that the last war was fought to end war. We little dreamt then that less than a quarter of a century later we should again be engaged in a lifeanddeath struggle for the preservation of not only the British Empire but also of democratic freedom throughout the world. In his speech, the Leader of 'the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  evaded the main issue arising in this debate by dealing with what he called the internal war. He devoted much of his eloquence to that subject. What he described as the internal war, I submit, is but a minor issue.  Senator Abbott,  in seconding the motion, addressed himself principally to post-war problems and possible methods for their solution. Without in any way minimizing the importance of the honorable senator's argument, because I fully realize that our post-war problems will he immense, I suggest that we must at this juncture deal with first things first, and that our most urgent problem now is the winning of the war. We are fighting for our very existence. That is the paramount problem which confronts our people to-day. Up to date the Government's war effort has been commendable. I admit that it has not been spectacular. The Prime Minister has not gone around the country waving a flag and merely talking defence. He, and every member of the Government, are solidly applying themselves to the job, and so far their efforts have been outstandingly successful. The Leader of the Opposition declared that Labour's defence policy to-day is the same as that enunciated by labour leaders 26 years ago. I do not agree with him. On the outbreak of the last war the then Labour Prime Minister of Australia,  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, when asked to declare Labour's policy, replied that Australia would help Britain in the conflict " to the last man and the last shilling ". Labour's policy to-day cannot be -summed up in that phrase. Approximately 365,000 Australians volunteered for active service in the last war. To-day the Labour party is opposed to sending one man on active service overseas. 
The Government's defence policy has been criticised on the ground of its secretiveness. The defence policy of any country must, to a certain degree, be kept secret. Particularly is this so in a time of war. Should we blazon our proposals abroad, even among our own people, we should run the risk of betraying our intentions to the enemy. That, of course, would be greatly to our detriment. Not only in respect of purely defensive matters, but also on the economic side, this Government has already done much to assist the Mother Country in the present conflict. However, instead of meeting with a full measure of approbation, it has been attacked by carping critics. The Leader of the Sena'te  (Senator McLeay)*  in his address, reminded us of the sale of £120,000,000 worth of Australian primary products to 'Great Britain. It is natural to expect a measure of adverse criticism of a deal of such magnitude, but such criticism as has been voiced has been directed to administrative rather than the organization aspects of the transaction. The attitude of a number of" critics can be summed up in these words, " All right,..we have sold these products to Britain; but Britain wants those products just as much as we want to sell them to Britain ". That attitude is not justified by the facts. With the exception of wool, we are not selling anything to Britain which that country could not secure from neutral countries. In addition, such countries would be prepared to pay for the transport of all products which they sold to Britain. In our case, however, the Mother Country has undertaken to lift our products from Australia and to bear insurance, freight, and all other charges. Of course it is only human to be parochial. Usually we are prone to view big issues from our own particular point of view, and to judge transactions of this kind in the light of their effect upon ourselves. Unfortunately, many people have criticized the sales to the United Kingdom in that selfish manner. Our producers of wool, meat, wheat and fruit have been clamouring for greater sales -and higher prices for their products. Taken as a whole, however, this transaction represents a wonderful achievement on the part of the Government, and much of the criticism which has been levelled against it is entirely unfounded. Take for instance the sale of our wool to Great Britain. This is a controversial matter about which I profess to know something. Those who were associated with this industry during the eventful years 19i4, 1915, and part of 1916 know exactly what the position of the woolgrower was at that time. It was the most anxious period in the history of the wool-growing industry of Australia. The growers did not know from day to day what was going to become of their product. To-day, although still in the first years of this war, Australia has sold practically three-quarters of its total clip to Great Britain and payment for it has been made to the banks in Australia. 
A good deal has been said regarding price levels. This afternoon the Minister gave a comprehensive list of average prices over a long period of years. Growers and others have told us through the press that the price of producing a pound of wool is approximately ls. 2d. This is nonsense. A. commission set up by  the Commonwealth. Government in 1932 to examine this matter found that . the cost of producing wool was a little less than 9d. per lb. This finding was later supplemented by a commission appointed by the Queensland Government, which arrived at a price even a little less than that fixed by its predecessors. It can be seen therefore that the average price of ls. l£d. being paid by the Government of the United Kingdom is approximately 50 per cent, higher than the cost of production. The effect of the agreement under which we are selling our primary products to Great Britain, is that almost all of these products are practically pooled, and every one engaged in our primary industries is getting a share of the market. It is not possible under this scheme for one producer to rush in and grab the market for himself. 
I feel confident that the Government is doing more than ever before to eliminate profiteering during the war. Some months ago, a very wise piece of legislation was passed through this Parliament presenting the prices ruling on the last day of August, 1939, as the standard of pre-war prices. In the previous war it was not until 1917 that the Commonwealth Government decided to embark upon a price-fixing scheme, and the difficulty then encountered was that of fixing a pre-war standard. The difficulty cannot occur in connexion with price-fixing during this war. If at any time it is desired to investigate the price of a commodity, with a view to controlling profiteering, a standard pre-war price is readily obtainable. 
It is noteworthy that, although there never was a time when Australia was engaged to such a vast degree in the manufacture of munitions, these munitions are being turned out at cost price. All manufacture of munitions is under government supervision, and the closest scrutiny of profits is maintained. That is a very commendable state of affairs. A few days ago the Leader of the Opposition read out a list of rising prices. It should be realized, however, that 90 per cent, of the commodities referred to were primary products, such as bacon, eggs and fruit, the production of which is . subject- to seasonal conditions. Whether or not a war were now in progress, the prices of these- commodities would have risen because of adverse seasonal conditions. 
The Leader of the Opposition also complained that the Government had kept Parliament in recess with the object of keeping the people in ignorance of what was going on. That assertion was unjust. I am sure that the Government had no such idea in keeping Parliament in recess. The honorable senator then went on to deal with inflation, which he said was being used by  the  Government as a bogy with which  to  frighten people who knew little about finance. That is not correct. The Government's desire is not to frighten people but rather to make them realize  that  many of these newfangled ideas' about raising money are, or will be eventually, not a benefit, but rather a detriment to the community. If inflation is the bogy with which we on this side are frightening the people, I can claim confidently that Douglas Credit is something that is being used by honorable senators opposite to. delude the people into the belief that they can get something for nothing. It has been tried over and. over again, and in no instance has it been successful. As an excuse its exponents usually claim that the scheme waa not given a proper trial, or that the credit  was  not of the right brand.  Senator Darcey,  who . frequently treats this chamber to eloquent addresses  on the subject  of finance, which he has studied so thoroughly, likened finance to an aeroplane. He said that an aeroplane, when used in peaceful transport is a vastly different instrument from an aeroplane used as a bomber. In the one instance,  there  is wise use, and in the other, abuse,  of  the machine. Similarly, inflation, or moneyless credit, may be wisely used or it  may  be abused. How is it to be controlled? We had inflation during the  last  war, and we are sure to have it during this war, but so long as it is controlled, and so long as the importance of the occasion warrants it - I maintain that wartime is a sufficiently important occa-sion - a country is justified in using itAs  an  everyday instrument of national finance it would not be of benefit to the community, but, on the contrary, would  be a source of considerable danger. We have had many illustrations of social credit schemes, and I should like to cite one which occurred on the island of Guernsey in 1811. No doubt  Senator Darcey,  who apparently has studied this matter very fully, will know something about it. In 1811 the people of Guernsey decided that they wanted a meat market and consideration waa given to a . plan very similar to the social credit schemes propounded to-day. The people wanted £4,500 with which to build the market, and after a great deal of haggling and discussion, construction was undertaken in 1819. Bonds to the value of £4,500 were issued, and they were to- be redeemed in ten years by market rents from the butchers and a customs duty of ls. a gallon on wines and spirits. The market was successfully opened in 1822, but, instead of the debt being liquidated in ten years, as arranged, it was not discharged until 1894, or 72 years later. During that period the butchers had paid rent to the amount of £10,800, and the public had contributed £21,600 in customs duty, so that about £32,000 had been paid for £4,500 worth of credit. Will any of the exponents of the Douglas Credit system tell me how it could be applied successfully to public works, housing schemes, the relief of unemployment, and similar undertakings? 
Reference was made by the Leader of the Opposition to the paragraph in the Governor-General's Speech dealing with the proposal of the Government to amend the electoral law. He accused the Government and its supporters of proposing to do something for its own benefit. 1 claim that, if tie present voting system does not result in a true reflex of the will of the people, the Government is entitled to propose that it be altered. If, as was suggested by the Leader of the Opposition, the Government's intention in this regard is to give a political advantage to its own parties, it is logical to suppose that the advantage under the present law rests with the parties in opposition to the Government. I maintain, however, that the Government has no desire to gain an advantage at the expense of its opponents. Its one object is to institute an electoral system by which the will of the people may be expressed. 
The Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration was established for the settlement of industrial disputes. The coal-miners who are now on strike have obtained a decision from the court, but have refused to abide by it. Therefore, there can be no argument as to which side is responsible for the present  cessa-.  tion of work. Arbitration courts have been brought into being at the instance of political parties of all shades of opinion. 
That is so. The coal-miners say that the employers could settle the strike if they wished to do so. Of course they could, if they gave the miners everything they asked for, but that would merely result in the postponement of the dispute. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  had the courage to address the miners on the northern coal-fields 'last Friday. When will  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, go to the coal-fields in order to address them? 
1 am addressing the question to the people of Australia. 
The court has given its decision, &amp;ad the miners are at  liberty  to appeal to the court again, if they wish to do so. Labour members of this Parliament had an excellent opportunity a few days ago to do something of a practical nature to settle the strike. They might have requested the parliamentarian from Great Britain..  Mr. Grenfell,  M.P., who visited Canberra last week, to address the miners. He is a miner and a member of the Labour party in Great Britain who has risen from the ranks. 
He may have done so, but, if he made an impassioned appeal to the miners on the northern coal-fields similar to that made by him in this chamber, there would be something radically wron'g with the miners if they did not heed his advice. He could have told them that in Great Britain the miners had voluntarily increased their hours of employment to 60 hours a week, and were prepared to go even further than that if the authorities required them to do so. 
No, it was in England. 
We have heard a good deal about the menace of communism. Doubt seems to have arisen in the minds of certain honorable senators as to where the Communists are, but we need have no further doubt upon the matter. A non-Communist Labour party has recently been formed in New South Wales, and this surely shows where the Communists are to be found.  Senator Keane  referred vaguely to this matter. He said that there might he a few Communists here and there, but he was not sure about it. He cited the Corio by-election as furnishing an indication of the power of the Communists in Australia. 
Whether they help the Government parties or not, they certainly vote for the Labour candidates.  Senator Keane  mentioned that, out of a  vote  of about 56,000, there were 2,000 Communist votes, showing that one elector in every 27 in Corio was a Communist. I point out, that, at the time of the Russian revolution, when the Soviet Government took control, the population of that country was over 150,000,000, and it was reliably estimated that the Communists numbered only 2,500,000. There was only one Communist among every 600 people, but' they turned  Russia  into the Soviet Union. If that is a fact - 
I said that, the Communist candidate in Corio received about 2,000 votes out of a total vote of 56,000. Actually he had a little more than .1.800. It ia not necessary to search far to discover where the Communists are. One has only to read the report of a meeting that was held in the Northern coal-fields on Friday last.  Mr. T.  Hoare, the  president  of the miners' organization, is reported to have said - 
Russia has the only true Hag - the Red Flag /or the blood of the workers. All other Hags are just indications of geographical boundaries. 
Then  Mr. Orr,  the general secretary of the combined Miners Union, said - 
I have spent a lifetime studying  Communism  - aud it is the only thing for the workers. 
Does the honorable senator associate us with those sentiments ? 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.;Are not the coalminers constituents of Labour senators? Can our friends opposite dissociate themselves from these gentlemen without dissociating themselves from the rank and file of the Miners Union? 
am prepared to credit  Senator Wilson  with having no evil intent. Probably he is suffering from fear, and not without very good cause.  His  world cannot go on much longer; our world - the world of the people we represent in this chamber - cannot continue much longer as it exists to-day. I have often declared in this chamber that there must be a new order of society, externally and internally, and a new world based on a better foundation of righteousness and justice. I have often warned honorable senators opposite, and . 1 warn  Senator Wilson  again this afternoon, that to-day his profits are in jeopardy; tomorrow it will be his capital, and, before long, unless we can bring both the external and internal wars to a successful conclusion, the very lives of those people who represent vested interests - the profiteers and exploiters - will be  in danger -from those who are dispossessed of all things that make life worth while. 
Some exception was taken by honorable senators opposite to the designation applied by  Senator Wilson  to Hitler and Stalin. In my view his language was in no way extreme. The Standing Orders of the Senate prevent me from saying of those two men just what I think. No word in the English language could fittingly describe their cruelty and perfidy. 
There is no need for pessimism as to the outcome of this war. A thorough survey of the strength of Great Britain and her Allies, in man-power and financial resources, indicates that with the loyal co-operation of all parts of the British Dominions, victory will be ours. There is .reason for optimism when we compare our present position with that of 1914. Adequate man-power and money are the essentials. This war is proving to be more costly than the World War of 1914-18. In that war Great Britain was spending at the rate of £3,000,000 a day ; in this war the expenditure daily is £6,000,000. France in 1914 was spending £2,500,000 a day, as compared with £4,500,000 at the present time. The greater expenditure is due largely to the higher cost of war materials. Battleships cost practically twice the amount required in 1914, and aeroplanes, which now are used extensively, are much more expensive to build. 
I followed with interest the Speech read by  His Excellency  the Governor-General in opening this session of Parliament, and since then I have studied it with an equal measure of interest. The Speech, which conveys a message to the people of Australia, demonstrates clearly that we are faced with our share of responsibility in the terrific war which is now being waged in Europe. It also demonstrates to us that, although we may not be in a theatre of war, other nations not now at war are enshrouded in war clouds. Fearful as conditions now are, something even worse may be in store for the nations of the world. Civilization is faced with a dreadful prospect. A few months ago when we were carrying on our ordinary vocations, it seemed impossible that within such a short period the nations which wo regarded as civilized would be at deathgrips, and using all kinds of infernal engines for the destruction of mankind. That is the picture that is presented to us to-day. We have been informed that the people of Australia will be asked to pay heavier taxes in order to enable the Commonwealth Government to sustain its war effort. We all know that that means not only taking away from the people the money which they now have, but also that the taxpayers are to be asked to mortgage their future earning capacity. That is an enormous responsibility; but the position has to be faced. I agree with those who say that we can pay tribute to the Prime Minister of Great Britain for using every effort to avert war. Regardless of what has been said concerning the attitude of the Labour party towards this conflict, that party is prepared to do its share to assist in the defence of this country, and to help other self-governing dominions within the British Commonwealth of Nations to do their part to protect civilization. The members of the Opposition are fully aware of what may happen, and efforts must be made by all parties to safeguard the Australian people and at the same time assist those who are fighting overseas. 
There are other matters of more or less local concern with which we can deal. The Treasurer  (Mr. 
Spender) has - announced that in all probability amending legislation will be introduced to repeal the gold tax. I am not surprised because when the legislation imposing the tax was before the Senate some months ago, I pointed out that it should not be allowed to pass in the form in which it was presented to Parliament. I said that the imposition of the tax would interfere seriously with the present and future development of the gold mining industry; but I shall reserve further comment on that subject until the legislation foreshadowed is before the Senate. Reference is also made in the Speech to the Government's price-fixing policy, and whilst I believe that the action taken has done a great deal of good in the interests of the community, there have been many breaches of the regulations. Members of the Opposition will endeavour, not only in the Senate, but also by getting in direct touch with the Commissioner, to bring under his notice the fact that some persons in Australia are taking advantage of the present situation to extract money to which they are not entitled from the pockets of the people. Many cases have been brought under the Commissioner's notice and others will be ventilated shortly. It is the responsibility of the Government and also our duty to see that the profiteers are not allowed to amass wealth when the nation is fighting to preserve its existence. This £s not a time when unscrupulous persons should enrich themselves at the expense of others. A matter which has been brought under our notice by the Treasurer was raised by members of the Opposition some time ago. He has warned mortgage companies against increasing rates of interest, and promises that drastic action will be taken unless they act differently. Warnings are not much good to such persons; legislation should be passed by this Parliament without delay in order to safeguard those who are burdened with heavy mortgages. 
As a member of the Labour party, I should like to express my personal views on the subject of defence. I am not satisfied with the efforts made by the Government for the proper defence of Australia. I believe that it should do a great deal more. The defence of the country is tie first responsibility of the Administration. 
It is easy to chide the Labour party with promising support of the Allies at a distance of 12,000 miles from a theatre of war; but when we realize the hopeless position of the Norwegians in consequence of their inadequate defences, the dangers with which we are confronted will be apparent. In these circumstances, the Government should tell the people of the urgent necessity to expend every ounce of energy and all the money available to defend Australia. 
Denmark, Norway and Sweden relied upon the goodwill of their powerful neighbours, but that was of no avail. 
That is the policy which the Government has followed up to date. 
The policy adopted by anti-Labour governments during the past eight years has placed Australia in its present hopeless position. No effort was made until just over a year ago to finance our essential defence preparations. 
I recall that shortly after I entered this chamber Ministers here referred to the startling fact that a sum of at least £8,000,000 was to be made available for defence preparations. That sum was to be obtained from accumulated surpluses that had been built up over a number of years. Apparently, had it not been for accidental circumstances no money at all would have been available for defence. 
That is true. Governments composed of parties to which honorable senators opposite belong have consistently neglected the defence of this country. For a period of at least six years such governments made no attempt whatever to prepare our defences. That statement cannot be denied. Indeed, with the exception of a very brief period, anti-Labour governments have been in power in this Parliament for the last 25 years, and not until quite recently was any effort made to build up our defences. The people of Australia realize that fact. Irrespective of what honorable senators opposite may say about the " Beds " controlling the Labour movement, this Government 'has forfeited the confidence of the people. This fact has been evidenced by the result of by-election after by-election. Not only as a representative of the people in this chamber, but also as a good Australian, I urge the Government to provide for the effective defence of this country. I raise no argument as to whether any one arm of the services should be developed more than another. In that respect, I admit, the Government should be guided by its defence experts. 
There is no dearth of man-power in this country. In reply to a question which I asked to-day, the Minister representing the Minister for the Army stated that applicants for enlistment in the Air Force were so numerous that the department has not been able to handle all of them promptly. Consequently it cannot be said that there is a dearth of man-power. I recall that following the voluntary recruiting campaign some time ago, the Minister in charge of it stated that Australians had responded to a man, and that the department had been obliged to call a halt to the campaign. Many men who have applied for admission to the Air Force have travelled great distances to present themselves at recruiting offices, and after being passed as physically fit have been obliged to wait for a further period before being called up. On account of this uncertainty they have been unable to return to their homes or to go very far afield in search of employment. 
That may be so ; but 1 assure the Minister that I have read advertisements in the press which contained no such direction. 
If what the Minister says is correct, so much the better. Such action no doubt has been taken as the result of the inconvenience caused to many men, as I have indicated. I urge the Government to get on with the job of providing an uptodate and efficient defence system for Australia. 
A proper system is that advocated by the Australian Labour party which proposes to utilize not only the cash reserves and the credit but also the material and manpower of the country, having regard to the defence requirements of other self-governing dominions within the British Commonwealth of Nations. I also urge the Government to give immediate attention to problems likely to arise immediately after the conclusion of the war. Now is the time to get to work on  such  matters. The conflict may last for many years; it may end very soon. Nevertheless we must build for the future. If we wish to avert confusion in the economic life of the people we must now prepare to deal with post-war problems. The Government should make a pronouncement on this matter. We should be advised of what proposals it has in mind to deal with post-war problems. The people need to be assured on such matters if we hope to maintain contentment amongst them. We should not leave them in a state of uncertainty. I should like to know that the Government is utilizing every means in its power to ensure that the people shall not be let down when hostilities have ended. I do not blame the Government for all that happened during the depression. I know that governments had very little to do with the depression which brought so much misery and trouble on the world in 1930. That development was managed by international financial manipulators who control and, indeed, govern most countries. I have no doubt on that point. Although I cannot completely follow  Senator Darcey  in his advocacy of monetary reform, I commend that honorable senator for bringing this subject so much before the public. He has visited many country centres in order to speak on this matter, and has thus enabled the people to do their own research on the subject. We all are very much interested in the problem of monetary reform. Every honorable senator, I believe, has made up his mind that action must be taken to bring about reforms in the present monetary system. Such a development must come in the natural order of things. Our own economic welfare, as well as our relations with other countries, demand* such a reform. 

 Senator Wilson appealed to honorable senators on this side to take action to rid the country of Communists. Hedeclared that thousands of working men in Australia are controlled by a small minority of Communists in our midst. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  also appealed to honorable senators on this side to take action against the Communists. He declared that upon us was cast the responsibility of taking political action against the communistic element in the community. What does the Minister mean? He also said that the Communists were retarding the nation's war effort.  Senator Wilson  said the same thing. We have been asked to take political action against the Communists. Surely honorable senators opposite realize that wo as an opposition are not able to enact legislation; that is the responsibility of the Government. I point out that these charges are levelled against us to-day although the war has been going on for eight months. Honorable senators opposite claim that foreign influences are at work in this country retarding our war effort, but during that time the only thing which the Government has done to suppress such influences has -been to prohibit the publication of a few communistic newspapers. Yet to-day it asks the Opposition to take political action against the Communists.- The responsibility of dealing with disruptive elementsin the community belongs to the Government, and I should like to know what it proposes to do in this direction. It possesses full constitutional power to deal with the Communists and it should, if necessary, introduce legislation immediately to safeguard the interests of this country against such disruptive elements. 
Of course. Last session we were called upon to pass the National Security Act from which the Government derives almost all the war powers that it requires. Yet no action was taken. Now the Minister asks this party to take political action, but such action can only be taken if a party has sufficient numbers in both Houses of Parliament to pass the legislation which it initiates. The present Government has the power to do that. Irrespective of what honorable senators opposite may say, the statement that Communists control the Labour party is untrue. 
Not only during the past eight months, but for many years, the Labour movement has been purging its ranks of not only " red " elements, but also other undesirable influences. 
We have been most successful. We have been far more successful in purging our ranks of Communist elements than have the United Australia party and the Country party in their endeavours to control the law-breakers who have brought these parties into disrepute by the evasion of our arbitration laws. Law reports contain list after list of unscrupulous employers who have not only' been breaking arbitration laws', but have also called upon youths to sign false declarations as to the amount of money they have received weekly. Is it fair to blame any government or any party for the misdeeds of these* people who are out to make greater profits? Honorable senators on this side of the chamber rarely impute dishonest or questionable motives to the people's1 representatives on the other side of the chamber. Yet we are told that we are tainted with " red " doctrines, because here and there throughout this great working-class world in Australia, there are some individuals who make statements of an irresponsible character. An examination of the evolution of the Labour movement in Australia will show that a cleansing process is continuously in operation. We are always out for the purification of the rank and file because the Labour movement stands for high ideals which, when put into effect, will raise the standard of living and working conditions, and improve the mentality and culture of the people of Australia. For that reason we cannot allow any poisonous influences to wreck the Australian Labour party. 
I should like to refer also to the remarks of the Leader of the Government  (Senator McLeay),  and also those of  Senator Wilson,  in connexion with the " Hands off Russia " resolution in Sydney recently. The fact is that the conference in question carried a motion declaring a policy of non-aggression towards all neutral countries - countries with which we are not at war. 
The resolution referred to all neutral countries, including Russia. 
I ask  Senator Dein  to be fair. All countries with whom we are not at war, including Soviet Russia, were included. I am not a Communist nor do I sympathize with Stalin; I do not believe in Russian methods; I am hostile to the procedure adopted by what are referred to as Communist governments; I do not support fascism; I have a tremendous dislike of nazi-ism ; therefore I cannot have levelled at me a charge of being a " Red ". I am not a " Red " ; I never have been, and I never shall be. But not many years ago a British Cabinet Minister sponsored an invitation to Soviet Russia to enter the League of Nations. As a result of Russia's acceptance of that invitation, the league lost Italy and Japan, and, in addition, Germany said that it was useless to continue its membership of the league if Soviet Russia were to be admitted. 

 -HAM.- Mr. Anthony Eden supported the invitation which led to the acceptance of Soviet Russia as a member of the League of Nations. We also know that representatives of France and Britain sued for favours from Russia just prior to the announcement of the Russo-German pact. I do not blame them, because nations have to do these things. Similar negotiations are in progress to-day. Shortly after the peace 'between Russia and Finland was signed the British newspapers announced that the tone of the Moscow press, previously very pro-&lt;German, had changed considerably and was more favorable to France and England. Efforts to reach an understanding with Russia are still being made, and a few days ago a Cabinet Minister stated in the House of Representatives that Australia had no quarrel with Russia. That statement may be found in  Hansard.  It was published to the world by the newspapers as the statement of a responsible Minister. In making that statement, the Minister and the Government knew quite well that international relationships are continually changing, and that those who to-day are our enemies might to-morrow be our friends. Who knows what tomorrow has in store for us? He who can prophesy what will happen in international affairs six months hence is indeed a wise man. 
I have made my position clear. I have no wish to be an ally of Russia I do not stand for the Russian system headed by  Mr. Stalin;  I would not support or encourage any representatives of Stalin in Australia, and I advise the people of Australia to give such representatives, if any, a wide berth; I support whole-heartedly any action taken by this Government to safeguard the interests of this nation against the insidious influences of any foreign power. En saying that I speak in harmony with my colleagues of the Labour party. 
McLachlan believe in " Hands on Russia " ? 
I will go a little further and say that the New South Wales conference merely followed the lead given by the Prime Minister of Australia, by  Mr. Chamberlain,  and by the French Premier, because the position is this: Even when Russia invaded Poland, and took from the people of that country the Polish Ukraine neither of the great powers which to-day are allied against Germany declared war against the Soviet Union. When Russia, with the backing of 180,000,000 people, invaded Poland and foisted its detestable system of government on that country there was no armed intervention by the great democracies. 
It certainly was not "hands on Russia". Yet we find even responsible Cabinet Ministers, who have very important duties to carry out, wasting time with an utterly useless and nonsensical outcry against the "Hands off. Russia" resolution. Surely they are not engaging merely in political propaganda. Who has got his hands on Russia? That is what I want to know. The Government of Australia certainly has not. The Prime Minister and members of his Cabinet know full well that it would not be politically expedient to make a pronouncement of "Hands on Russia ". 
I do not know what honorable senators think, but I certainly am not in sympathy with Russia. I shall allow  Senator A.  J. McLachlan to make his own declaration in that regard. Incidentally, I remember one of his declarations when he was a responsible Minister. Honorable senators will recall that one night  Senator A.  J. McLachlan painted a vivid picture of the uselessness of aircraft in war.  His  ideas, however, are apparently as old as Methuselah. He stressed the fact that it took 920,000 shots from an aeroplane to make one hit. To-day he has been proved absolutely wrong. The honorable senator may refresh his memory with regard to that speech by perusing  Hansard. 
It cannot be denied that an air force is an indispensable arm of defence. I do not think even  Senator A.  j. McLachlan will deny that. However, I am prepared to allow him to speak for himself. He is very capable of doing so. 
Later I shall have something to say on the subject of taxation and., no doubt, I shall have a more adequate opportunity to do so. When I do deal with this subject, honorable senators will be under no misapprehension with regard to my opinion. Undoubtedly the people of Australia will be called upon to do much more than they are doing now towards financing the war  effect.  But that obligation must be faced, and I am sure that anything within reason will be done willingly by the people of Australia and by their representatives on this side of the chamber. 
It is only natural that the first expression by  His Excellency  should have been in connexion with the war and the part . which the Commonwealth of Australia will play in it. I congratulate the Government upon the declaration by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  immediately following the Corio by-election. Up to that time there was a feeling abroad, and I shared it, that, seven months having elapsed since the declaration of hostilities, Australia was not doing what many , people considered to be its full part in helping the Mother Country. The Prime Minister stated that Australia's expeditionary force would be expanded immediately to a corps of two divisions, with the addition of the necessary corps troops. That is a substantial first contribution by this country towards the defence of the Empire. The declaration has no doubt had a timely effect on other nations, especially those which continue to imagine that Great Britain is a country of only 46,000,000 people. They overlook that there are also India and the other Dominions, which demand that they be taken into account when lesser breeds forget the extent and power of the British Empire. They seem not to have profited by their experience of 25 years ago, when nearly 3,000,000 Empire troops, apart from those of the Mother Country, went to the Empire's assistance. Possibly that number, and half as many again, will be in the field before this struggle is brought to a conclusion. If Germany or any other nation continues to flout the peaceful endeavours of Great Britain and France, they must expect to reap the full results of their perfidy in again involving the world in a holocaust. For that reason I thank the Prime Minister, on behalf of the people of Australia, for offering these additional troops, as well as our complement of the Empire Air Scheme, in order to restore world equilibrium, so that there may be some hope for calm and peace in the future. 
Many proposals such as we are accustomed to hear in the GovernorGeneral's Speech are missing on this occasion, and the charge could be made that the Speech contains little or no indication of what honorable senators may expect during this session of Parliament. If one reads between the lines, however, there is a wealth of possibilities in regard to the work that the Senate may be called upon to do in the next two months or so. With regard to taxation, particularly, there will, no doubt, be much heartburning ; but the war situation has to be faced, and the only way to do it is with a full purse. I draw attention to the continuous kite flying from Canberra, and the threats of increases of all sorts of taxes, which have a disturbing effect upon commerce generally. The people of Australia know that taxation will naturally have to be increased for war purposes, and it is undesirable to harp upon that fact. For heaven's sake, let us know the worst, so that the people may become reconciled to it at the earliest possible moment, and adjust their affairs accordingly. 
Honorable senators will recall that last session a good deal of discussion took place regarding the gold tax. During the recess I have endeavoured to move the apparently immovable Treasury towards relaxing certain conditions, which, owing to the incidence of this tax, have a rather serious effect on certain low-grade mining propositions in Western Australia. It is urgently necessary to assist these mines to keep in operation, because most of them provide the sole means of employment in their respective districts, and, should they cease operations, disaster would overtake the employees, their families and the tradespeople who supply their needs. I suggest to the Leader of ;he Senate that further representations be made to the Treasurer to assist Western Australia in this regard. In respect of one mine the increased benefit enjoyed from the excess price of gold during the last seven months' operations has been about £6,000, of which no less than £4,500 has gone in increased costs of the treatment of ore. The actual increase has been ls. 6d. a ton. No added cost has been met as regards head office administration or other incidental expenses, which are usually debited on a twelve months' basis at the termination of the taxation year. I am dealing only with a broken period. It should not be particularly difficult for Treasury officials properly to supervise an exemption in a case such as that I have mentioned. The closing down of this mine would mean the collapse of one of our smaller mining centres. I hope that the Treasurer will exempt such mining enterprises from the payment of the gold tax. 
There are good grounds for the view held in Western Australia that producers of gold and the Commonwealth Treasury are not receiving the full value of the gold exported to the United States of America, which,, as we all know, goes into the dollar pool in order to meet payments for war materials purchased in that country. The opinion has been expressed in Western Australia that far more than many of us realize could be secured on the disposal of the gold, and, as a consequence, the industry in Australia and also the Treasury would benefit. At the present time, the United States of America is paying for Australian gold 34.918 dollars a fine ounce. Reckoning on that basis, and in conjunction with recent rates for the exchange of dollars into sterling, which had slumped in February of this year, when the dollar stood at 3 dollars 45 cents to the £1, the value of our gold in the United States of America would be £10 2s. 6d. sterling a fine ounce and £12 12s. 6d. Australian. If we deducted the gold tax, 50 per cent, of the wartime excess price, the tax would then be £1 16s. 3d. an ounce - it is now 16s. 7$d. an ounce - and that would yield to the producer £10 16s. 3d. Australian an ounce, less 3s. 2d. Australian, for selling expenses. At the present time the gold industry receives only £9 16s.  7id.  a fine ounce. The difference between 16s. 7£d. and £1 16s. 3d. would enable the Treasury to collect an additional 19s. 7$d. a fine ounce more than the Treasury now receives. On 1,000,000 ounces of gold, which is less than the annual production in Australia, the Treasury would receive an additional £1,000,000, and the industry would get a similar sum in excess of what is now received from the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. It may be argued that these violent fluctuations of the dollar-sterling exchange rate are most undesirable and that every effort should be made to stabilize the rate, as far as is humanly and economically possible. I agree with that, but the fact remains that any attempt to stabilize the exchange would call for too great a sacrifice from the gold industry, and our wool-growers. I cite wool and gold because these are the two major imports into the United States of America from Australia. It is true that other imports would bear their share of the cost, but to a far less degree than the two main industries which I have mentioned. I think there is room for investigation by Treasury officials or our Minister Plenipotentiary in Washington to see if it is not possible to effect a greater realization on our .gold in the United States of America. There should be no scruples with regard to this matter, because the United States of America has very definitely indicated that it will nol allow a recurrence of the financial situation which developed during the last war. It has stated that during this war the purchase of munitions and other war materials by the Allies must be on a strict cash-and-carry basis. This being so, it is reasonable to argue that Australia and the other Dominions concerned should demand the highest possible value for gold exported to the United States of America, in order to meet their war commitments. 
I am aware of that. The natural banking law determines the exchange rates between different countries; so, in order to secure a more favorable rate, we should require to increase the volume of our exportable commodities to that country. I think, nevertheless, that in our own interests there should be an investigation of the realization of our gold. 
I mention the present coal strike noi for the purpose of discussing its merits or demerits, hut because of the very serious effect of this industrial upheaval on the people of Western Australia. Before we left Perth for Canberra we had news of a possible shortage of sheet and corrugated iron stocks, owing chiefly to the greater demand being made on available supplies for the construction of military hutments and other defence works. We also were informed that the sailings of some ships had been cancelled, thereby prejudicing the renewal of existing stocks. This dispute seems to be very one-sided. There have been far too many occurrences of such troubles on the coal-fields in New South Wales; but I believe that if one could appeal to the miners themselves, and if one could impress upon them how seriously this strike is affecting people in the more distant States, good results might follow. Already interstate shipping movements have been restricted on account of war conditions. Now we have added to that inconvenience, ' the further cancellations of sailings of coalburning vessels on account of the coal strike. In this way the coal strike is inflicting great-' hardship on the people of Western Australia, especially those living in the northern part of that State, where the demand for galvanized iron and other commodities made in the eastern States is great and urgent. I would like to appeal to the men to consider the effects of this dispute in the broadest possible sense of the term. I urge them to have regard not so much for their dignity as a leading trade union in the Commonwealth, as for the effect of this dispute on the whole of the Commonwealth. 
What the men are now seeking is an alteration of the conditions applying to our system of arbitration. If these disputes are to recur, especially during a national crisis, some remedy must be found to bring the principle of conciliation and arbitration back to the place which many of us thought it would occupy in the minds and lives of the people. In the early days of conciliation and arbitration, we thought that in time, when the system was in full operation, the Arbitration Court would bc clothed with a dignity corresponding to that of the Commonwealth judiciary, and be treated with the same respect. In other words we believed that the arbitration law would be equally as important as any other law and that the breaking, of it would he as serious as the breaking of our penal laws. If, however, we are to have a recurrence of these industrial disputes, in defiance of the findings of the Arbitration Court, we shall have to consider the adoption of other methods for their settlement. Many of these troubles are, I believe, duc to bad leadership, and to meet this difficulty I suggest that we should clothe the Arbitration Court with all powers necessary to take under its wing all the organized labour unions, the members of which then would be responsible, not to their leaders, but to the court. If this course were adopted, I think we should bc able to avoid the ghastly tragedy of seeing the Commonwealth seriously crippled through the action of men following bad advice from their leaders. 
Undoubtedly. We cannot have one-sided arbitration. "What is good for Jock is no bad for Sandy ". 
The suggestion which I have made is not new. If adopted, all concerned in the industrial life of the Commonwealth should come under the aegis of the Arbitration Court. I have no doubt that the miners of Kurri Kurri or Cessnock or of any other coal-field of the Commonwealth are just as good and loyal Australians as I am; but I do think that out of a rather enlarged sense of loyalty to their leaders in this dispute they do not like to retrace steps which they have taken mistakenly on the advice of their leaders. In view of the consequences of this strike to industries throughout the Commonwealth - consequences which will be accentuated soon if settlement be not reached - all personal considerations should be jettisoned and the miners should face the situation as Australian citizens. Disputes have occurred in other industries and they have been settled amicably. Not long ago there was trouble in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation's factory in Melbourne. At one stage it threatened to interfere with the defence preparations of the Government ; happily, that dispute was settled to the satisfaction of all parties. I do not see why the parties to this coal-mining dispute cannot do likewise. As the full effect of the strike is being felt in all States, the leaders of the men will have to face the responsibility that they are doing something that is not only prejudicial to our progress and prosperity, but also may interfere with our contribution to Empire defence. It is time that these men took stock of their position. 
I have no doubt that the Government will continue the good work which it has started with regard to home defence. It is by no means a light task, and I feel quite sure that the Ministry is doing everything possible to see that all parts of the Commonwealth are being defended adequately. But there is one part, outside the Commonwealth, which definitely is not properly defended. I refer to the Mandated Territory of New Guinea. I am aware that under the terms of our mandate, it is not possible to establish elaborate defences in New Guinea, but I doubt very much whether other countries holding similar mandates are so scrupulously observing the conditions of their mandate. Having regard to the fact that other countries are erecting defence works in the territories over which they hold a mandate, Australia should act similarly in New Guinea. As that territory in its present undefended state is now becoming a menace rather than an asset, the Commonwealth should prepare for its defence. A declaration by this Parliament should be a sufficient warrant for the League of Nations to recognize that its defence provides a bulwark to Australia. This subject calls for immediate attention, particularly in view of the fact that during the last two weeks a good deal has been said regarding the  status quo  in the Dutch East Indies. We should attend to our own affairs before devoting our attention to those of any other country, such as the Netherlands Indies. Doubtless the Government has this matter under consideration, but it is a subject which requires immediate attention. 
I now wish to speak briefly on the subject of wool. I realize that the Government has done very creditable work, and that it is to handle the Australian clip for the duration of the war and also the clip following the termination of the conflict. I urge the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride),  who understands the Australian wool position much better than I can ever hope to do, to realize that in Western Australia there is a strong feeling of disappointment over the prices realized, and the wool-growers in that State think it most desirable that a clause should be inserted in any future agreement to provide that prices may be reviewed. I appeal to the Assistant Minister to do his best to see whether it is possible for a review principle to be inserted. There is a feeling in Western Australia that some mistakes were made in the first appraisement and during more than one-half of the second appraisement, and a grave doubt exists as to whether these mistakes can be rectified. These mistakes were rectified in the latter part of the second appraisement and in subsequent appraisements, but those who sold their wool in the first appraisement and in the first part of the second appraisement feel that they had been dealt with unjustly. So far as I can ascertain, some growers will not reap the full return from their clip, and I urge the Assistant Minister to evolve some scheme of equalisation which will embrace all the participants in the first and second appraisements. I have heard from various authorities that similar conditions apply in the other States; hut I am now speaking only of the position in Western Australia. I trust that an effort will be made to recompense the participants in the first and second appraisements, so that they will get a fair return from their labour and investments. I believe that the Minister realizes the position in which they are placed, and I trust that relief will be afforded. I also ask the Assistant Minister whether appraisement centres can be established at Albany and Geraldton. There is a great danger of Albany being deprived of the advantages it enjoyed during the last war, and if that port, be overlooked it may commence  to  deteriorate. If Albany is selected as an appraisement centre there will be increased shipping, and the export of the great bulk of our apple crop, which has increased in the Mount Barker district, would be facilitated. If additional vessels call at Albany, shipping stagnation will be avoided. 

 Senator Keane directed attention to the dilution of labour in connexion with the Government's proposals to institute the training of engineers in connexion with Australia's war effort. I trust that  the  Government will proceed with the scheme, which is still in its infancy, and that nothing will be done to interfere with its success. There are many men in Australia possessing an elementary knowledge of engineering, and there are some who have advanced beyond the elementary stage, who could be trained to the standard of men belonging to our craft unions engaged in the manufacture of munitions and war equipment. It would not take a long course to bring those men up to the required standard. There are many men of about my own age capable of doing a good day's work who, in a brief period, could become competent engineers or toolmakers or engage in other sectional engineering work. Although the course has already started in New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia, the work should be extended to Western Australia where there is a technical committee of employers and employees which I am sure would be only too willing to supervise any extension of technical training to that State. I am sure that the Minister for 
Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  would favour an extension of the scheme to all States. 

 Senator AMOUR (New South Wales) [5.30J.  -  Regardless of what has been said by honorable senators opposite I do not believe that the Government is acting with sufficient expedition to provide for the adequate defence of Australia and the territories under its control. Although the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  spoke at some length on the policy which the Government has adopted with respect to the production of flow oil, which is the life-blood of any nation, its energies are not being exerted in the right direction. I am not in any way concerned with the schemes mentioned by  Senator Arthur,  and I am not interested in the production of flow oil by small companies in which persons invest their capital, or by major oil companies which have tremendous resources. The time has arrived when the Government itself should take immediate action to discover flow oil in Australia, instead of being guided by the recommendations of the companies. 1 2-emind the Minister for the Interior, who said that  Mr. Steinbuchel  will have to leave Australia by the 4th June, that if is the responsibility of the Government to protect those who have invested their capital in the companies formed by that gentleman. I do not know whether Steinbuchel possesses any special equipment or whether he is merely what is known as a " diviner ", but the persons who have invested their money in the companies which he has formed should be protected. If he says that oil can be found at a certain depth, he should be permitted to continue operations, even if it be necessary to protect him from the activities of the oil combines. If oil be found at the depth predicted the Government should pay this man the prize of £50,000. Indeed, if he were successful, I suggest that the Government should pay to him a much bigger sum per annum in order to retain his services for the nation. I put that proposition seriously. I have no confidence in the Government's geological advisers. I recall that on one occasion, when  Dr. Ward  gave a lantern lecture in the Senate club room on the search for oil in Australia, the projection machine was operated by a Japanese. 
To mo that was most astounding, particularly when most of the operations on the fields were under guard. It is evident that the major oil companies have been responsible for the failure to discover flow oil in this country, or to produce oil from coal or shale. Must I repeat over and over again what happened in connexion with the production of oil in the Wolgan Valley in order to demonstrate that those companies are doing their utmost to prevent the production of oil in Australia? I am confident that oil will be produced here when these companies find it convenient to do so. That will be a glorious day for this country, but we should not wait for the major oil companies to crown our efforts with success. If Steinbuchel is genuine  lie  should not be deported. The Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  suggested that  he is a fake. If this be so he should be put in gaol, because it is the duty of the Government to protect those people throughout New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia who have subscribed  to  his companies. If he is found to be genuine the Government should use his services; if he is not genuine it should deal appropriately with him. The Government is not seriously concerned in the search for oil. I base that view on  the  belief that the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  is most anxious that no action should he taken to increase oil production in this country. Recently the Bankstown Municipal Council received a circular which was distributed by another local authority to all of the local governing bodies throughout New South Wales. The Town  Clerk  of Bankstown wrote to the Minister for Supply and Development supporting the representations made in the circular, which was as follows: - Dear sir, 
I am directed to seek the co-operation of your council in urging the Federal Government to make available portion of the increased revenue from the petrol tax for the exploitation of the extraction of oil from coal-shale as a necessary and urgent defence measure. 
Australia depends entirely upon ocean-going transport for the whole of its oil and petrol supplies. In the event of a determined enemy blockade, this important link could be broken, transport would become immobile and the wheels of industry idle within a very short period. 
After the last war it was generally conceded that petrol shortage, due to the Allies, effective blockade, was primarily responsible for Germany's collapse. 
During the years following the last war, all nations, other than Australia, were actively engaged upon consolidating oil supplies and Germany now leads the world in the production of synthetic motor spirit from coal. Spain legislated for the Government control of the refining and distribution of oil. Italy spent vast sums in seeking further oil production in Albania, Northern Africa and the Near East. France trebled her oil production in the Near East. The growth of Russian oil production has been the main lever for her various trade pacts and Overseas credits. Japan's military occupation and control of the oilfields of Sakhalien bland and the exploitation of Manchurian shale deposits enables petrol to be sold  in  Japan  at about one-third the  price  obtaining  in Australia. Diplomatic activity and military stategy in the present war all pivot upon oil supply. In the face of all this evidence, the lethargy of the Federal Government in neglecting a definite attempt to make Australia in some measure independent of overseas oil supplies, is very difficult to understand. 
It is a generally accepted geological fact that the prospects of the discovery of flow oil in Australia are negligible. Australia has unlimited coal supplies and a number of dormant shale deposits. The Newnes Shale deposit ( the only one being worked ) will produce shale with a content of 102 gallons of crude oil per ton, which in turn will produce 60 gallons of petrol, 30 gallons of fuel oil, together with other valuable by-products. Other shale deposits exist at Baerami, Barigan, Burragorang, Wollar, Murrurundi, Marrangaroo and in many parte of Queensland. Coal deposits, rich in oil content, everywhere await development. 
The importance of awakening public interest in the necessity for a determined effort to produce oil from coa] and shale, both in the interest of national security and for the economic advantage which must accrue from the establishment of an important new major industry in time of war or in time of peace, needs no elaboration. 
Council will very much appreciate the valued co-operation of your council in forcibly bringing this matter under the notice of the Federal Government, per medium of the Federal Parliamentary Representative of your district, urging that Australia produce Its own oil and petrol supplies. 
Thanking you for your assistance in this matter. 
In the first paragraph of the circular will be noted a reference to "coal-shale". It is evident that this reference was an error. It should have read "coal or shale". But the Minister based the whole of his reply on this error. I suggested to him that the way to comply with the representations made in the circular would he to allocate a sum from consolidated revenue for this purpose. His reply was-r- 
My dear  Senator, 
I have to acknowledge your letter of the 4th instant, with enclosures from the Bankstown Municipal Council. 
I must admit that I am somewhat at a loss as to just what is meant by the representations. 1 notice that the council is urging for the exploitation of oil from " coal-shale ", but 1 do not know what coal-shale is. Could you enlighten me, please? 
On reading the circular to which 1 have referred, any person with a semblance of intelligence would know that the reference " coal-shale " was an error, because coal and shale are different minerals. In view of the Minister's reply T am convinced that he is most anxious that the major oil companies should have the last say in the search for oil in this country, and that the Government does not seriously intend to develop our oil resources. 
Since the outbreak of war no  fewer  that 23 boards have been appointed by the Government. "We have now a board for this, a board for that, and a board for something else. 
Does the honorable senator say that 23 boards have been appointed since the outbreak of war? 
Yes. 
I have here a list of the names of the boards to which I refer. I find that on the 20th March last, wartime organizing and advisory committees, boards, panels and commissions numbering about 50 were in operation, and are now costing taxpayers of this country £250,000 per annum. Much of that money is simply being, wasted. Many people concerned in the manufacture of defence requirements for the Government who hoped to co-operate in our war effort have had their hopes dashed owing to interference by these boards. They have been told that they cannot do this,, that, or the other thing.  Mr. Essington  Lewis, who virtually occupies in Australia a position comparable with that held by Goering in Germany, is mainly responsible for this confusion. The Government talks- a lot about defending the- nation against aggressors; Let it beware df enemies in our midst. The main desire of this steel genius is that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited should be enabled to make more profits. I say definitely that the Government has dishonoured its pledge to Parliament that no section of private enterprise would be given an opportunity to make profits out of the manufacture of arms or armaments until such time as the State instrumentalities were working at their full capacity. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited manufactured shells and sold them to the Government at 30s. each, but the Government subsequently found that the shells could be manufactured at Maribyrnong, for 10s. less. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited then returned to the Government 7s. 6d. a shell, representing a total of £10,000. The general manager of the company is  Mr. Essington  Lewis, a member of one of the defence advisory councils. 
Then why did it return the money to the Treasury? 
Why did  Mr. Essington  Lewis say that there had been a mistake in costing? 
I emphasize that the Commonwealth instrumentalities have not yet turned out a shell. They are by no means working to full capacity; but the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is  manufacturng  shells. 
The Government announced at the beginning of the war that until the government-owned munitions workshops were engaged to their full capacity, private enterprise would not be permitted to engage in the manufacture of armaments,, and so amass huge profits on the pretext of patriotism. 
The honorable senator has that complex, and he will retain it for just so long as his patriotism remains the same as it has been in the past. That patriotism starts with profits for the rich, and there it stops. In the interests of those who are deriving wealth from this war, the Government is sending men overseas as cannon fodder when their proper place is in the factories. This action enables people such as Essington Lewis to exploit the community, because the sending- of men overseas creates the demand for the profitable munitions. The Government should have heeded the request of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  expressed at the beginning of the war, that the manufacture of arms and munitions should be retained in the hands of the Government. 
His Excellency referred to what he called " a full measure of defence The Government has conscripted certain categories of youths for service in the Militia. These lads are paraded twice a day in the camps, and urged to volunteer for service abroad with the Australian Imperial Force. In this connexion, the Government is employing tactics similar to those used during the last war. When the militiamen are paraded and asked to volunteer for the Australian Imperial Force, certain men - urgers or  buttoners  - step forward. These, however, are only dummies, and are switched from company to company in order to give the same performance, and so encourage others to volunteer. The Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  has denied the existence of this practice, but despite his protestations, it is carried out, and I challenge contradiction on this point. I do not suggest that representatives of the Government go into the military camps and urge the boys to join up for overseas service, but there are in these camps, certain jingoistic officers who are responsible for this work. I fear that there will be a general call-up, which will, in effect, be conscription. The boys who are now conscripted for service in the Militia will be forced to go to the war. Once again I warn the country against the enemy within. There is a sinister influence at work to get these hoys out of the country. Is that what is meant by " a full measure of defence " for Australia ? Should the Government be unable to secure sufficient volunteers for the Australian Imperial Force, we may again see in operation a system which was in- augurated  during the last war, when proclamations were issued and posted at military establishments and police stations, stating: - 
Whereas by the Defence Act 1903-1915 it is amongst other things enacted that in time of war it shall be lawful for the Governor-General, by Proclamation, to call upon persons liable to serve in the Citizen Forces to enlist and serve as prescribed: 
The proclamation is signed " G. F. Pearce, Minister of State for Defence ". Following its publication, the Government called up the "  Hughesliers  ". I fear that the "full measure of defence" spoken of by His Excellency will include the issue of such proclamations. 
I am sorry that  Senator McBride  has so little knowledge of Australian political history as not to know what was the composition of the government at the time to which I refer. 
Let us beware of the enemies within. A member of the House of Representatives, who formerly held the portfolio of Postmaster-General, is reported in this morning's Sydney  Daily Telegraph  as having said that another " new guard " should he formed in the State of New South Wales. It is noteworthy that there was no talk of stopping the sending of Communist literature through the post when that gentleman was Postmaster-General. The former New Guard was a Fascist organization, and just as the Communists get their instructions from Moscow,  Mr. Eric  Campbell and his New Guard got their instructions from Berlin. It is also reported in the press that  Mr. Vinton  Smith, the defeated candidate of the United Australia party at the Corio byelection, intends to organize a youth movement. Hitler organized a youth movement - a movement that is now menacing the security of the world. 
 Senator Dein  and all members of his party have relied on the Communists for their success at elections. They are sorry that the Australian Labour party is determined to rid itself of these people who have insinuated themselves into the movement. Whether they attempt their " putsch " by underground methods or any other methods we shall push, them all back where they belong. At no time has Labour had any association with the Communist party, but it is well known that  Senator Dein  and the Government of which he is a supporter are very interested in the movement at election time. Therefore I say, that if the Government is determined to send men away from Australia, it will have to watch carefully the brown shirts, the youth movements, the new guard, the Eric Campbells and the Vinton Smiths. Australia should be the most democratic country in the world. There is no need here for Communist organizations or youth movements. 
There is another matter on which I should like to touch and in connexion with which, I believe, the Government is not aiming at " a full measure of defence " for Australia. A promise was given in the House of Representatives that the Government would embark upon a homebuilding programme involving the expenditure of £20,000,000. Despite the fact that the Government has expended only a comparatively few pounds in the building of new houses for the people in Canberra, it has gone out of its way to prevent the expansion of co-operative building societies elsewhere, irrespective of their stability and the character of those who have been elected at public meetings as their directors. 
The Bankstown Co-operative Building Society has been placed in such a position that it is unable to secure power to organize new societies. It desired to extend its operations by setting up a permanent building society in order to enable its members to do their banking through that body, but that was prevented by the Federal Treasurer. Up till recently it had paid 5 per cent, interest on money lodged with the permanent societies, which in turn charged the persons to whom the money had been lent 5 per cent. In Great Britain, it was discovered that these permanent societies were interfering with the banks, and, apparently the determination of the Commonwealth Government is to prevent the increase of the number of institutions of this character, despite the fact that the building of homes in working-class districts is a matter of national importance. The Government decided that it would not allow the desired extension of activities at Bankstown, unless the permanent society would be satisfied with an interest return of l£ per cent., or less than the bank rate of interest. I have received the following letter from Bankstown Cooperative Building Societies  Nos.  1, 2 and 3 Limited: - 
Dear  Sir - 
The society's solicitor has made application to the Federal Treasurer under the National Security (Capital Issues) Regulation on behalf of the Permanent Building Society for permission to start business. 
You would be able to give the application a push along and this would be very much appreciated by the local lads of the Building Society Board and building trade, and yours truly, 
A. Land us. 
In Bankstown there are still SOO persons out of employment, and I am greatly concerned about the action of the Commonwealth Government in this matter, which has had the effect of retarding employment, although the Speech by His Excellency the Governor-General was so framed as to suggest that everything possible had been done to provide for the defence of Australia. This country cannot be adequately defended, if thousands of men are out of employment; therefore, I regard the speech as mere political propaganda. 
When I heard the speech by  Senator Abbott  regarding international affairs, I thought that it would be a good thing if something could be done in the direction indicated by him for the prevention of war. I happened to refer by interjection to the Menzies Government, and the honor able senator slightingly suggested that, as he was speaking of matters of international moment, it was inappropriate for me to refer to such local matters as unemployment at Bankstown, but I consider that it is of the utmost importance to deal immediately with this problem. We should do something to relieve those workers whose cupboards are bare, and whose clothing is far too scanty to enable them to face the rigours of winter. The honorable senator and other supporters of the Government would be better Australians if they displayed greater readiness than they do to consider the best means of promoting the welfare of the unemployed. The success of the building society operations at Bankstown would give impetus to the local building trade, in the success of which I am particularly interested. The Government would have the people believe that it is doing everything possible to ensure the adequate defence of Australia ; yet thousands of men and women are unemployed, and they and their' children have insufficient food and clothing. Nothing is more demoralizing than keeping able-bodied men and women in idleness for long periods. What is morally wrong cannot be economically right or politically sound. It is essential to put into employment all the men and women who are anxiously seeking it.  Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Many years ago, when I was a boy in England, I read over the editorial in the local newspaper the following lines, which had been dedicated to an old crow : - 
Fond of the speculative heights, 
Thither he wings his airy flight, And thus securely sees 
The bustle and the  raree  show That occupies mankind below, Secure and at his ease. 
Those lines came back to me while I was listening to the speeches of honorable senators this afternoon. In the security of the Senate we sit at out ease, and we should be able to discuss, calmly and deliberately, the various issues that come before us. On the other side of the world nations are  being  wrecked and men are being blasted out of existence. Knowing of this we should keep the debate on a high plane. Our friends opposite have on many occasions told us that we should do this. Of- course we all wish that that were possible. I do not suggest, of course, that we are all so many Jekylls and Hydes; but somehow when men get together in debate, they say things which they would not say in private conversation. One gentleman I know is normally very calm, yet when he rises to speak in public ho becomes almost a revolutionary. I think sometimes that this change in men is, perhaps, psychological. We can find examples of this phenomenon amongst Fascists, Communists, and even amongst members of the United Australia party. 
In the Speech of the Governor-General which, I presume, was written by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  or someone deputed by him to do so, three matters are specifically mentioned - the colossal conflict on the other side of the world, the cunning Communists, and the coal strike. I am somewhat disappointed with the Speech, not because of what it contains, but because of what is not to be found in it. The Prime Minister some months ago declared that the right thing to do during this war was to carry on as usual. It would appear, however, that the right honorable gentleman has not followed his own precept, because he has left out of the Speech many matters which might very well have been included. 
Sometimes in my pessimistic moments I think that we shall never be free of international conflicts, because wars are, in some respects, biological in their origin. There is, I believe, in most of us, a pugnacious impulse which must have an outlet. I am reminded of the truth in the following lines by Edwin Arnold in his  Light of Asia.  The gentle buddha noted. - 
How lizard fed on ant, and snake on him, And kite on both; and how the fish hawk robbed 
The fish tiger of that which it had seized; The shrike chasing the  bul-bul  which did chase 
The jewelled butterflies; till everywhere Each slew a slayer, and in turn was slain. Life living on death. So the fair show Veiled one vast, savage grim conspiracy Of mutual murder, from worm to man, Who himself kills his fellow. 
It seems inevitable that men will always display this fighting spirit. It is pos.sible, though perhaps this is wishful thinking, that some day we may sublimate our individual or national pugnacity and we may be able to direct it on to a higher plane, eventually treading the path to a better world. We may thus evolve a form of society in which it will be possible for every individual to get the best out of life without doing harm to his neighbour. 
We on this side believe in a real democracy. We are strongly opposed to totalitarianism. We stand for democracy - not only political democracy, but also industrial democracy. We believe that in fighting Hitler-ism  Ave  should endeavour to establish in this country a really democratic form of government so that we could prove to Hitler or any other dictator that we have solved all social problems without doing violence to any individual. I do not think that we have yet gone very far along that road. We have in our midst a number of sentimentalists, who tell us that the day is coming when we shall have a universal language and shall abolish armaments; that, in fact, we shall achieve such a measure of amity among the peoples of the world that it will be possible for one small army to police international law. We have such idealists in this chamber - honorable senators who use nice language and speak almost with tears in their voices when speaking of the world that is to come. But when we are discussing Australian industrial conditions, and when it is a question of establishing a real democracy, in which every citizen of the Commonwealth will enjoy what is his just due, these, gentlemen display an extremely pugnacious spirit and almost evince a desire to crack someone's skull, particularly the skull of unfortunate workers who dare to demand a betterment of their conditions. Senators Wilson and Abbott have lately given us their conception of the new world order - 
Till the war drum throbbed no longer, and the battle flags were furled 
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world. 
But there was very little sentiment about these gentlemen when they came to deal with the coal strike. They declared that "we must deal with these people ". They were, of course, referring to the terrible Communists who, we are told by some, are in control of the coal-miners. In this Parliament we have " Shoot-' em down " Thorby and " Cannon-ball " Cameron. Both these gentlemen would counsel the use of force against the workers in this strike. I have no doubt that  Mr. Archie  Galbraith Cameron and  Mr. Thorby  have some sentimental ideas about the future world order but their immediate need, apparently, is to come down with a heavy hand upon those workers who are struggling at the present time to uphold the original decision of the Arbitration Court. 
I would call the attention of Senators Abbott and Wilson,  Mr. Thorby  and  Mr. Cameron  to the fact that there is something more in this fight on the coal-fields than the adherence, by coal-miners, to the lead of men who  owe  allegiance to the Communist faith. No one can persuade me that thousands of men will vote almost unanimously in favour of a strike, knowing full well that it will put them on the bread line and cost them the loss of wages for many months, merely to follow some will-o'-the-"wisp Communist who is obsessed with the doctrine of Stalinism. I do not believe that  Mr. Orr  or any other leader of trade unionism has such authority over the coal-miners as to persuade them, against their will, to strike against an award of the Arbitration. Court. 
Yesterday in the Sydney Domain, I listened to a lady  speaker,  who is a familiar figure at these gatherings. Behind her was the Union Jack. I understand that this lady,  Mrs. Thomas  Walsh, formerly Miss Adela Pankhurst, is now crusading under the auspices of the Guild of Empire. When I met her first, 25 or 30 years ago, she was a very active member of another political faith. As a matter of fact she has run the gamut of political beliefs. At one time she was a red-hot socialist. To-day she has other views. But the lady is always interesting, and I was impressed by what she said on Sunday. She told us that the Government would be doing wrong if it attempted a policy of repression in this dispute, because, she added, in the coal-fields areas there were thousands of men who had been cavelled out of jobs in the mines and thousands of young men who had no hope whatever of getting employment in the mines. A spirit of hopelessness permeated all these workers and the urgent need was for the Government to convince these men that they had a solution of their problem. She said further that it was a mistake to suggest that a few Communists were controlling and ruling all the coal-miners in New South Wales, and she declared that, as soon as a solution of the economic problems in the coal-fields district was in sight, the influence of Communists, Fascists or Nazi agents would disappear. The remedy for the present trouble was economic security and the right of every man to earn a living in consonance with Australian standards. 
I should like to impress this fact upon those Government supporters who are too prone to declare that all this trouble on the coal-fields is due to the influence of Communists. Despite our wealthproducing powers and despite our capacity to feed, clothe and educate our people, a vast number of workers are not to-day getting a square deal. I am supported in that contention by Bishop Moyes, of Armidale, who, according to a paragraph which appeared in a Sydney newspaper, interviewed some of the coal-miners and their wives. He said that the workers did not trust the bosses and the bosses did not trust the workers, but he was impressed by the straightforward sincerity of the representatives of both parties. He contended that he could not see how the problem could be solved by emphasizing li.o existence of an Arbitration Court. Bishop Moyes, who spent a good deal of time on the coal-fields, conversed with the rank and file, and even went down some of the mines, concluded his state-' ment with these words - 
Some of the miners with whom I conversed had opposed the strike, while others voted in favour of it; but all were convinced that there was a massed feeling on the men's part and that the strike was not the result of agitation by a few. 
If the problem is to he solved we shall have to ascertain all the facts associated with the dispute. If the Government imprisons Orr and other leaders, the trouble will be intensified. If the leaders of the men be gaoled a fire will be lighted which will burn from one end of Australia to the other, and those who are now sitting on the fence will come down on the side of those who are participating in the conflict. Coming to Canberra by train to-day, I was shown a series of articles which appeared in a newspaper  The Common Cause,  dated the 27th April. Three parts of these articles had been censored severely. It is many years since I read this paper but the articles which I perused to-day did not contain one word concerning Russia. I could not find any references to that country at all; but there were many articles and paragraphs relating to the strike on the coal-fields. There was also a statement by Judge Davidson published in May, 1929, under the caption  Employers are not angels,  in which he pointed out that in that year the employers by acting contrary to the letter and spirit of the Arbitration Act had rendered a great disservice to the Australian public. The blue pencil had gone through that. I could understand the censor  exercising  his authority had the newspaper said that the employers were dastards, but it did not do so. 
Yes, but his statement " the employers are not angels " had been deleted, as were statements made by union officials dealing with the cause of the strike. Although advertisements compiled by the employers are published freely in the Australian press, the men are deprived of an opportunity to put their case before the people. They said that they are ready to abide by Judge  Drake-Brockman's  award in which he granted them a 40-hour week, but the blue pencil had also gone through that. Another statement which had been censored was that the miners are the only members of an industrial organization who have not had their working hours reduced since 1916. If the Government acts in the direction suggested it will be looking for trouble. I can recall the days when I was associated with socialist movements, and although some may say that I have now fallen from grace because I am too moderate, I can see that some of the actions which I took years ago were not justified. There are thousands of men in the trade union movement in Australia who, if the Government acts as some say it will act, will make a firm stand. They are opposed to the methods of Hitler, Mussolini and other dictators. It will be the height of folly for those in authority to exercise power in the manner that is threatened. 
I have already explained to the Senate how the articles and paragraphs in a paper owned and controlled by the miners have been censored, and I make bold to say that nothing that has been eliminated would have benefited Hitler, Mussolini or Stalin in  any way. One would think from the manner in which some honorable senators opposite speak that, if the miners were allowed to tell the truth, the world would come to an end. The miners believe that the censorship is being used with undue severity. The Government, instead of getting them back to work, will add fuel to the fire of industrial unrest and class hatred will be intensified. I am putting the case in a calm and dispassionate way in the hope that Ministers in this chamber will endeavour to influence those mad swashbucklers who would use force against men who arc fighting in the interests of themselves and those dependent on them. 
It is not. I have had conversations with some of these men, and I know that there are in our midst Fascist's who are prepared to sink the boot into the workers at every opportunity. It has been stated that one ex-Minister is pleading for the re-constitution of the New Guard, and it has been said that  Mr. Vinton  Smith, the defeated candidate for Corio, wishes to organize the youth of this country. Is there any necessity to establish a force in this country to operate against those who have democratic tendencies? The Australian people believe in law and order and favour our present democratic form of government, but they will give short shrift to those who exceed their powers. This is a matter which Ministers should discuss thoroughly before any action is taken which will add fuel to the fire of industrial discontent. I do not wish to be misunderstood in this matter. The members of the Opposition in this Parliament believe in arbitration; but we do not think that the arbitration system is perfect. It is true that there is a struggle between different sections of society, and we know that in the past men have gone on strike and have remained on strike until they and their women folk were on the verge of starvation. Arbitration has been a plank of the Labour party's platform for many years. It was not introduced by the Labour party, but it has always been supported by sections of the workers who think it necessary to avoid useless struggles in the industrial arena. Even if we have an arbitration system, it does not mean that all struggles between different sections  of  society have been eliminated. We have endeavoured to bring industrial disputes on to a higher plane, and to avoid all those difficulties which arise  in  the economic field between the owners and the dispossessed. In listening to some honorable senators opposite one would think that in the arbitration system we had discovered the philosopher's stone with which we can ensure industrial and economic peace. I understand that Judge Drake-Brockman heard the representation of both parties and the proceedings of the Arbitration Court extended over nine months. He then made an award with which the men were satisfied, but the employers appealed to the Full Court, which consisted of Judge Beeby, Judge Piper and Judge Drake-Brockman. Judge Piper said that he would not know a coal-mine even if he fell down one. 
If I am wrong  I  shall publicly retract that statement. However,- it has appeared in the press, and I am reliably informed that what  I  say is true. Judge Piper said that  he  was not a coal-miner and- would  nol  know a coal-mine if he fell down one. When he and Judge Beeby heard  tha  appeal from Judge Drake-Brockman's decision did they call before them any representative of the miners or indeed  of  the employers? No. It is well known that Judge Beeby is somewhat bitter against Judge Drake-Brockman. No matter what Judge Drake-Brockman's decision may be, Judge Beeby will alter it. 
Lawyers know their judges. It is the impression among lawyers that a good deal of jealousy exists between judges and that one judge requires but the slightest excuse for upsetting another judge's decision. 
I understand  that  Judge Drake-Brockman granted a  40-  hour week in respect of the whole of  the  industry. That has been a plank in  the  miners' programme for many years.  The  miners have always contended that there  should be uniformity of hours throughout the industry, and that there should be one award to cover the whole of. the industry. I understand that the Full Court, by a majority of two to one, decided on a 40-hour week for the miners and a 43-hour week for the surface workers. When workers are deprived of what they consider to be their rights, when thousands of men are convinced that they are being denied justice in their fight against their employers, then we cannot rely solely upon arbitration to enable us to solve a problem of this kind. If arbitration consists of upsetting by a higher court of the judgment of a lower court, it fails, and we must find other means of solving this economic struggle and bringing peace into the mining industry. 
A few days ago the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  declared that peace could possibly have been brought about in the industry if an arrangement had been made for the observance of a 40-hour week exclusive of meal time for surface employees and a 40-hour week, inclusive of meal times, for the miners. 

 - Mr. Curtin declared, as the result of his close association with trade union organizations, that if such an offer had been made to the men there was every prospect of restoring peace on the coal-fields.   Senator McBeide.  - What do the Kalgoorlie miners say about the strike? 
I do not know what they say about the strike, but I understand that the unionists at Kalgoorlie dismissed an official because he espoused the Communist cause. 
That is not correct. In any case, I know what the honorable senator believes about the strike, because he is a unit in that great army which exploits the workers at every opportunity; but at other times his bosom swells with patriotic enthusiasm when the services of the workers are required for the defence of this country. When miners lose their lives below ground through fire, explosion, or some other catastrophe, the honorable senator and others of his class shed tears. [ worked in a mine in the Old Country, and I know that miners as a class are of a fine type. At the same time I know of those who exploit them. When the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited issued a dividend which would return to shareholders per cent., allowing for bonus shares issued twelve months ago, a lot of money-suckers in this country were dissatisfied. I am telling the honorable senator something about his rich friends who are only too willing to exploit those poor devils when they work below, but at the same time are not satisfied with a dividend of 12£ per cent. 
The honorable senator has not worked down a mine. He sits in this chamber smirking and sniggering, and possibly he imagines that he knows all about work in a coal-mine. He has never had the experience of having to go without a crust. I have no time for men of his kind who, in times like the present, sneer at the workers, but I have no desire to add fuel to the dispute. I do not wish to see the miners out of work a day longer than is necessary. 
I am telling the honorable senator and his colleagues opposite that the miners 'believe that they are fighting for their rights. They are not being misled .by Communists at the head of their union affairs. When honorable senators opposite are bubbling over with patriotic fervour in the fight foi1 democracy, they should try to excite in themselves some human sympathy for these workers. Let us have democracy here. Let us see that there is fair play between the workers and those who live upon the workers. 
I have been an official of an industrial union and when I occupied that position I earned my money. I did my best for the workers in that organization. There may be certain gentlemen in the union movement who are not what they should be, and who are exploiting the workers. But, generally speaking, it cannot he said that those  engaged 'by the workers to look after their interests are not doing their best for the workers. I am endeavouring to demonstrate here to-night that the men themselves are anxious to win this struggle, because they believe they are fighting for their rights. The miners are just as loyal men as any other body of Australians. Enlistment figures in connexion with the last war show that  pro rata  the miners of Australia have given their bodies just as freely in defence of this country as has any other section of the community. I have no doubt that they will be equally loyal in this war. Over 40,000 members of the Australian "Workers Union saw active service overseas in the years 1914-18. Yet, honorable senators opposite accuse the workers of being disloyal, and endeavour to excite public sentiment against the strikers. Whilst this Government prevents the miners from telling the truth about the dispute to the public, it allows its own press, including the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Telegraph,  Sydney, to misrepresent the workers' position. I stand for free speech, but I say deliberately that any man who is guilty of sedition should be imprisoned. As one who has been through the ranks and suffered imprisonment - as one who once held revolutionary ideas and had the greatest sympathy for the Russian Revolution as a great social experiment - as one who has gone through the' whole gamut of working-class activity and has suffered imprisonment, I say that in the present war against totalitarianism, any country which allies itself to Germany is an enemy of this country. I make no quibble about that. In those countries which have adopted totalitarian methods, a tendency exists to make of men and women mere automatons. They remind me of professional " rooters " at football matches in the United States of America. Under their direction groups of partisans sway backwards and forwards just like clockwork. The trouble in totalitarian countries to-day is that a few men can control the mass mind, and can twist it in any direction they choose. Unfortunately, this is also becoming a weakness in our democracy, because of the lack of real education. To-day we drill into the minds of the young, certain facts, but we do not develop their intellectual facul-ties, with the result that politicians can sway the mass mind. It is possible also for the minds of unionists to be twisted and turned this way and that by their leaders. Wc .can never hope to solve our problems of this kind until we educate the children of this country to think for themselves, to analyse a problem, for themselves, and to be intellectually independent. In totalitarian countries mass control by a few men has been developed to a fine art. The word goes out, andovernight the people change their convictions. I do not suggest that a man, because he is a Communist, should be imprisoned or deported. Every individual has a right to his own opinion. 
I said that if a man commits a seditious act he should be" dealt with according to the law. . Every man who engages in subversive activities* in order to weaken this country in its struggle for freedom and democracy should be punished. But even the right honorable member for Cowper  (Sir Earle' Page)  has declared that the theoretical Communist is not a danger. No one' should be subjected to penalties, merely because he expresses a certain political view. If it is proved that organizations' are working subversively in the interests of the enemy, then, whether they are Communist, Fascist, or Nazi, they should be dealt with. I would point out, however, that in this country to-da)' there are people other than Communists in " the fifth column ", which is one of the most formidable forces of the enemy. We have heard of the. operations of the fifth column in Norway; we know that it is at work in Sweden, Belgium, and Holland. But, more than that, it is working in the highest quarters in Great Britain. Through the influence of aristocratic sympathizers, prominent Nazis have been released from concentration camps. Wc know that, prior to this conflict, a secret organization was at work in England; and numbered among its members some of the highest in the land. The workers' of this country say that if the present war is a real fight for democracy, these"  eople should he tracked down and placed  behind  bars, in the same way as workers who are foolish enough to act subversively. That does not mean that we should adopt Fascist methods. We do not wish to see in Australia a repetition of the methods adopted by the German Brown Shirts, who beat their victims into insanity, or even death. Let us keep cool, calm and collected and deal with this matter promptly and sensibly. Do not let us adopt Hitlerism in order to protect democracy. That would be absurd. Let us use our powers of persuasion; let us try to view the question from every point of view, and not merely from the point of view of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, or any organization which is exploiting the workers of this country. 
I have said all along that I do not wish this Government to be controlled merely by the  rentier  class, the coupon clippers, or the bondholders. I am striving to make honorable senators , opposite see things from the workers' point of view, and to impress upon them that Bishop Moyes and Adela Walsh are right. These people are of the same political complexion as the Government, so surely their views should carry some weight. They say that the Government is wrong, and that the miners are not controlled by the Communists. The miners, in fact, have a very democratic organization. 
They have the right to a ballot. Recently I spoke to the honorable member for Hunter in the House of Representatives  (Mr. James),  who is a miner from Newcastle. M.r. James informed me that the Miners Union of Australia is a most democratic organization. We on this side of the House want to see this strike settled, and the fight ended. We want every one to realize that, so far as Australia is concerned, we are in this fight, not merely to extend the imperialism of Great Britain or France, but also to establish a real democracy, and in order to show our bona fides in the fight we desire to preserve true democratic rights in Australia. 
I have not said that. There is, however, something wrong with the court. One judge gave an award after a hearing which lasted for nine months and then, without calling evidence, two judges revoked that judgment. That is absolutely undemocratic. It is notable that one of two men responsible for rescinding the award admitted quite frankly that he knew nothing about the industry. Yet he assisted to undo the good work done by one judge after a long a.nd detailed examination of the industry. 
If there is to be a full court, then it should be composed of men who understand the industry. I do not think that  Senator Hays  or any reasonable working man thinks that arbitration is the be-all and end-all of the machinery for the solution of industrial problems. A better system would be conciliation boards - representatives of parties interested in a dispute sitting together at a table with an independent  chairman  who knew the industry from A to Z. Such a body would decide more equitably than a full court of lawyers who ad;mittedly know nothing about the matter. The weakness in our present arbitration system is that our courts arc composed of lawyers who know nothing about the industries with which they deal. I have worked in many industries, and I understand many industries. I have had experience of industrial litigation. I have spoken in the courts, and have frequently found that despite the fact that I ami other Labour representatives had endeavoured to make our case perfectly clear, the legal  men had been unable to understand. We cannot blame them; a man cannot possibly understand every industry. That is why it would be preferable to have round-table conferences presided over by nien who completely understand the industries concerned. 
Possibly some of them say that. A great majority of the workers, however, believe that their case should be thoroughly dealt with, and they believe it was thoroughly dealt with by Judge Drake-Brockman. Then came a low blow which they considered to be unfair. 
The miners had not had a reduction of hours since 1916. If, as my leader has said, three hours is such a small matter why have the employers plunged Australia into industrial chaos? The Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  said that he could not make any headway with the employers. The right honorable gentleman's persuasive power is well known, and yet with all his understanding, all his oratory, and all hi3 experience of the working classes as leader of the Waterside Workers Federation, he could do nothing. Bishop Moyes has said that both sides, insisting that they are right, are adamant, so why not attack the problem properly instead of raising the cry against communism? I admit that some members of the Communist movement are so obsessed with their own doctrines that they go so far as to act contrary to the best interests of the country. A similar obsession was seen in operation in Norway quite recently. Many Norwegians were so overcome with the propaganda of those who fervently believe nazi-ism to bc right that they betrayed their own country. Anywhere a few men may be convinced by an extraneous or foreign idea,  and so fanatical are they in their adherence to that faith that they are prepared to go against the .best interests of the country that gave them birth. 
That does not make the miners wrong. Of what use is it to talk about  Mr. Orr?  What is the use of stirring up hatred amongst  the workers? Orr is said to lie " the nigger in the wood-pile ", but if he were put in gaol or deported, that would not end the strike. We do not agree with everything that  Mr. Orr  says just as I do not agree with everything that  Senator Dein  says. Under our democratic system we have the right to express ourselves in complete freedom, but so soon as a man preaches sedition in time of war he must be dealt with. 
I would like to see the creation of a body like the Hibble tribunal.  Mr. Hibble  knew the coalmining industry from A to Z, and a man of his knowledge would do more justice than three legal gentlemen sitting in judgment on something about which they know very little. 
I do not agree with" that. I do not believe for one moment that the miners of this country are so disloyal that they would deliberately strike in time of war in order to further their aims. 
Had the DrakeBrockman award not been superseded by the majority judgment of Judge Beeby and Judge Piper there would have been no strike. The suggestion, that the strike was brought on only because of the war is paltry and narrow-minded. Honorable senators opposite should realize the facts of the matter and act accordingly. I have had a certain amount of experience in the industrial world, and I know that the great masses in the industrial movement are good Australians and are anxious to do their best for their country. I am making a plea, on their behalf to the Government. Honorable senators opposite should understand the problem, not merely, as  Mr. Menzies  does, from the legal point of view, but also from the workers' point of view. The Government should take heed of the remarks of Bishop Moyes that the men are honest and sincere. 
Bishop Moyes knows nothing about industry at all. 
His grandfather was a working miner. 
During the last week or two, newspapers which support the United Australia party have published editorial articles pointing out that, although the Government has collected huge sums of money from the public, expenditure has not been carried out at the rate expected by the people, and, as a result, unemployment is still rife throughout the Commonwealth. At the outbreak of the war, I wrote an article for one of the newspapers, and expressed the opinion that, within a few weeks, every man and woman in Australia who desired employment would be able to obtain work. I anticipated that the acceleration of the production of munitions, and that work to be provided in other avenues in connexion with defence preparations, would quickly eliminate unemployment. I was wrong, for the office in Brisbane which I attend daily is regularly visited by men seeking work. A short time ago, an ex-soldier who had served two months in the Australian Imperial Force, but was found to be suffering from blood pressure, was dismissed from the force. He has been unable to obtain employment, since his discharge, by the military authorities, and when I saw him on the. third occasion he said, " After all, the Communists are right. There is no hope for us except by a revolution".  Senator McBride  and other honorable senators opposite, who have been in comfortable circumstances all their lives, may not understand the feelings of this man. He had given his body to the military authorities to be used to defend Australia and democracy, and, when he was dismissed from the Army through illness, he could not find any employment. What a pathetic case! Millions of pounds have been extracted from the people. 
Communists are produced because of the intensity of the economic struggle. Give the workers economic security, and the Communist bogy will be slain. If the statement in the tory press that the huge sums being collected from the people are not being expended as rapidly as they should be., thus reducing unemployment, is correct, there is a grave fault somewhere. We should be informed whether the accusations in the articles on this subject published in the  Sunday Sun,  the Brisbane  Telegraph  and the  Courier-Mail  are justified. It appears that full use is not being made of the services of the people for the prosecution of this war against totalitarianism. If that be the case, it is time that another government was put into power to see that Australia wages a 100 per cent, fight for real democracy. 
.- I am disappointed at the tone of the speeches from the Government side of the Senate. The Empire is on trial for its life, and islands in the East, only a few days' journey from our shores, are also seriously threa tened. Last week  Senator Wilson  and  Senator Abbott  congratulated the Government upon its efforts in. prosecuting the war, but I fail to see why the Government should be congratulated. Honorable senators opposite who have spoken on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply have accused the Labour party of having failed to get rid of the Communists and of having done nothing to settle the coal strike, but are they not aware, that the Opposition has no. power to do these things.?. One industry  after another is becoming para:lysed because of the present industrial dispute. What has the1 Government done to bring about a settlement pf it,? The Commonwealth Conciliation, and Arbitration Act charges each judge with the duty of endeavouring at all times,, and by all lawful means, to reconcile the parties in industrial disputes. Whilst I cast no reflection upon the judiciary, I remind the Government of the growing feeling among the people that the judges, of the Arbitration Court have not acted in the interest of the Commonwealth, because they have failed to call a conference of the parties with a view to a settlement. Even if the judges do not consider it necessary to take this action, does npt the- Government consider it desirable to call the parties together? In reply to a question submitted by me, the Government replied that it had no power to dp this; but we know that it has all the power it needs to summon a compulsory conference if only it had the spine to use it. 
It is the duty of the Government to make some effort to bring about a settlement. Has not the Government under the National Security Act all the powers necessary to call a compulsory conference of the parties? Neither the  mine-owners  nor Commonswealth Ministers appear to desire a settlement at the present time. 
If the Government does not desire the dispute to continue, why is no effort made to bring the parties together? Reference has been made by  Senator James  McLachlan to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  endeavoured to induce the miners to return to work, but did he also address the mine-owners  in order to bring them into line? The whole of the blame for the dispute seems to be cast upon the miners.  Senator James  McLachlan also asked why  Mr. Curtin,  the Federal Labour leader, had not also addressed^ the miners. If the mine-owners and the miners could be brought together,  Mr. Curtin  would be prepared to do anything to effect a settlement of the dispute, but the duty devolves upon the Government to take action. 
The owners were really the first to break it. It has been pointed out repeatedly in this chamber that Judge Drake-Brockman made an award which was acceptable to the miners, who were quite willing to work under it, but the owners appealed on a technical point regarding the competence of an arbitration judge, sitting alone, to make, an award touching standard hours. That led to the trouble,  Senator James  McLachlan offered some, comment on the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  with reference to this internal Avar. My leader was quite right. The internal war is on to-day, and it has been, going on for many years. Every honorable senator knows what was in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition when he made that remark. If there were no internal war, there would be no dispute in the coal-mining industry to-day. 
We have been charged with being allied with the Communists, and we have been asked why we have not cleared the  Communists  out of this country. I agree with every word that was uttered by  Senator Abbott.  I have had conversation with many Communists  who have spoken openly to me of what is in their minds and I know what is their objective. They are against anything put forward, whether good, bad, or indifferent. No honorable senator on the Government side should accuse any Labour senator of being allied with the Communists. One Communist has said  to  me - "The day is not far off - much closer than you think - when we shall deal with the likes of all you chaps. Out you will go. If you don't go willingly, you will be put out in some other way ". That shows how much love the Communists have for me and my colleagues in the Labour party. We would be more pleased, perhaps, than ministerial supporters if the Government had backbone enough to take  action  to rid this country of these destructive elements in th&gt;-« community. 
I understand that the Government has decided to discontinue the subsidy on fertilizers. This decision has come at a most unfortunate time when more than ever the subsidy should be retained. We all are well aware of what has happened in Denmark which, until the invasion by Germany a fortnight ago, supplied Great Britain with a large volume of dairy products. The seizure of that country has cut off large supplies of products upon which Britain was depending. Ministers must know that since supplies of dairy produce to Great Britain from Denmark have now ceased, Australia will be called upon for a large increase of production for the Mother Country and its allies. It is regrettable, therefore, that when every aid to production is so urgently needed, the Government should decide to discontinue the subsidy on fertilizers, which is so necessary for increased production. The discontinuance of the subsidy of 10s. a ton will make a difference of £1 a ton to the farmers, because of a recent increase of 10s. a ton in the price of artificial manures. I feel sure that the Government's decision will result in a reduction of the quantity of fertilizers used, with a consequent decline of the volume of production. I appeal to the Government to reconsider its decision and continue the subsidy for another year or more, until we see how the war is going and whether Great Britain and its allies will have an adequate supply of foodstuffs. 
A day or two ago I asked the Leader of the Senate if it was a fact that the apple and pear acquisition scheme was working so unsatisfactorily in some districts that apples were being fed to pigs or thrown into the scrub and left to rot, whilst school children in other districts were unable to obtain apples to eat. The reply was to the effect that the position was not as stated by me. I realize that with the additional burden thrown upon Ministers owing to the war, it is not possible for them to attend to all the details of their departments, but if they ar« overloaded with work, additional Ministers should be appointed so that the facts may be ascertained before answers are given to questions. I say this, because the answer given to me was not correct. I am prepared to take the Minister to districts where thousands of cases of apples have been fed to pigs or allowed to rot on the ground. It is true that, as part of a publicity campaign to encourage the greater consumption of apples in Australia, the board has arranged for the free distribution of a certain quantity of apples to school children. But it would be in the interests of the nation and better for the health of school children if, instead of distributing a comparatively small quantity of apples for publicity purposes, arrangements could be made to release much larger quantities instead of allowing this fruit to rot on the ground or be fed to pigs. I also asked the Minister whether it was a fact that some growers who had delivered their crop to the Apple and Pear Board had been unable to get their first advance. I know that up to- the time that I left Tasmania for Canberra there were growers who had not obtained their first advance; yet the Minister, in reply to my question, said that payments had not been withheld. That answer also was not correct.  Mr. Taylor  informed me that it was possible that the advance had been withheld until it was ascertained whether all production costs had been paid. He said that he would put a telephone call through to Melbourne and let me know. That was about five weeks ago, and I am still waiting for the information. I have not heard from  Mr. Taylor,  but I had a letter from a grower concerned stating definitely that he had not received any advance, although he had answered all the questions required of him in the return. In former years, this particular grower disposed of his own production locally. This year he would have followed his usual practice for the sale of his fruit, but he was forced to deliver it to the board and if he required fruit for re-sale, he was compelled to pay 2s. 6d. a case for it. 
I agree that it belongs to the board,  but  that body should have the decency to make an advance when it takes delivery. A condition of chaos and muddle has arisen through faulty administration by the board. I am in favour of the principle hut I regret that until a week ago, at all events, the administration has been so faulty. For this the former Minister for Commerce  (Senator McLeay),  must take the blame. The growers of Sew South Wales and the Government of that State have 'been hostile from the inception of the scheme, yet they have not received any rebuffs from the Leader of the Senate. I am not going to say that he has encouraged them, but he has not done anything to bring about cohesion or uniformity in the working of the scheme. 
I could not very well bungle it more disastrously. 

 - Mr. Tonking, the Chief Secretary in the Government of New South Wales, also accused Tasmanian growers of sending their rubbish to Sydney where it was sold at from 3s. to 3s. 6d. a case to the detriment of growers in New South Wales.  Mr. Tonking  is evidently not competent to judge the quality of apples. I saw the apples to which he referred, and I have no hesitation in saying that they  were  of good quality. In fact, similar apples brought £1 a case on the London market at a time when the best Jonathans were bringing only 10s. a case. It illbecomes  Mr. Tonking  to make such an unfair charge against the Tasmanian growers. I have 20 questions on the notice-paper concerning the administration of the apple and pear acquisition scheme, and I am sorry that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  does not now hold the portfolio of Minister for Commerce, because if he did so it would be his duty to answer them. I do not hold the present Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  responsible, because he has to carry the baby handed to him by the Leader of the Senate. 
I did not. 
I was not responsible for its selection. If the Minister will study the subject carefully, he will find that the chaos which has arisen and the inconvenience and loss which have occurred are not due to the action of the board to which he refers. The manner in which the scheme has been administered in New South Wales is nothing short of a racket. 
The members of that board had to be approved by the Minister, and if any of its members are incapable of carrying out their work why did he not oppose their selection? 
I am referring more particularly to the chaos which has occurred in Sydney. 
Had the Minister agreed to the appointment to the Sydney board or committee of a Tasmanian representative who has had extensive experience in connexion with the marketing of apples, a good deal of the chaos and confusion may have been avoided. Is the Minister aware that under the old system apples arriving in Sydney were cleared on the day of arrival, or at the latest by midday on the following day; but under this scheme they have been left lying on the wharf for a  week or more before being cleared. It has been estimated that on one shipment alone the Tasmanian Apple Board lost over £12,000 in one week. This was due solely to the muddling and bungling which occurred in Sydney, for which mismanagement was largely responsible. According to a paragraph which appeared in the  Queensland Producer,  the Leader of the Senate, when Minister for Commerce, said that the estimated crop in the apple-producing States this year would be: Victoria 2,800,000 cases, New South Wales 2,800,000 cases, Western Australia. 2,000,000 cases, and Tasmania 6,500,000 cases. I do not know whether the Minister has been  correctly reported, but when it is real.ized that in. 1938 New South Wales produced only 1,234,000 cases, it is difficult to understand how the production could increase to 2,800,000 cases. In 1937 New South Wales produced only 1,400,000. Will the Minister explain how New South Wales could double its production in one year? It appears that the New South Wales crop was overestimated for a specific purpose. As New South Wales did not come under the scheme until the 1st March, or some time later than the other States, the producers in that State were able to dispose of a large portion of their crop at whatever price they desired, and thereby obtained benefits which were denied to producers in other States. In order to show bungling and muddling on the part of those controlling the scheme, I cite the following paragraph which appeared in  Fruit Culture,  published on the 10th April : - 
The charge for stamps and stationery which has been in dispute for so long in this State, has assumed additional importance to agents owing to the necessity of returns to the Acquisition Committee being separately recorded on account sales. It has been  suggested  to the writer that one agent collected more than £4 on just over 1,000 cases owing to their necessitating more than 160 account sales, while another on 35 cases comprising 22 brands and necessitating the use of 22 account sales collected Us. for stamps and stationery. And this is in addition to the usual commission. 
In view of the circumstances in which such charges were incurred it would be interesting to know whether the Minister has the capacity to estimate costs, and whether he has any conception of what the scheme will cost the country. 
I have no desire to do so, but I trust that those responsible for its administration will exercise greater care and display more business ability than was shown ' by the Leader of the Senate when he was associated with it. If those controlling the scheme do not display more knowledge of the acquisition and marketing of fruit than was displayed by the Minister they had better seek the advice of those who do understand the business. It appears that the New South Wales Government prevented its officers from co-operating with other officers and in that way endeavoured to wreck, the whole undertaking. The Leader of the Senate said that the Leader of the Opposition was spineless and lacked the necessary courage to clear the Communists out of this country. The Leader of the Opposition and the Labour party have not the power at their dis*posal to clean the Communists or any other disruptive elements out of this country; the Leader of the Senate and the Government have the .power but. lack the courage to do so. Had the Leader of the Senate, when Minister for Commerce, not been so spineless and had he had the courage to take a definite stand under the National Security Act to enforce his decisions in regard to the scheme, much of the chaos and bungling which has caused a severe loss to the growers of apples and pears would have been avoided, and the baby would not have been left for the present Minister for Commerce to hold. 
. [ have read with considerable interest the Speech of His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, because it was delivered under war conditions. In perusing the Speech I find that some of the statements are misleading. For example that relating to unemployment reads - 
Bearing in mind the great importance  cif  preserving and extending employment, my advisers took steps to accelerate defence works by employing relatively unskilled labour, and pursuing a financial policy calculated to prevent industrial retrogression. 
That is true up to -a point; but it is not correct to the degree implied. The fact is that considerable unemployment still exists in every State. In Victoria the number of registered unemployed for April was 16,005. In a. time of war it is essential to utilize our man-power in building-up our material resources for the welfare of both the fighting forces and the civil population, and the Government can offer no valid excuse for the present position. Unemployment figures prove that the Government is either unwilling or unable to use the man-power available. One of the effects of this is that children are starving. At the annual conference of the Victorian Teachers Association, held in Melbourne on the 25th January, it was pointed out  that between 74,000 and 75,000 school children in Victoria were not up to the Al physical standard, whilst from 8,000 to 9,000 school children suffered from malnutrition in an extreme form. This matter is not new; it has been referred to repeatedly, and forcibly, by honorable senators on this side, who have urged the Government to relieve the position. It has been pointed out that something can be clone in that direction, but very little lias been done. 
Yes ; I say also that much more could be done, particularly when we take into consideration the resources which are at the disposal of the Government. It possesses dictatorial powers, by the exercise of which it could provide employment for every man in this country who is able and willing to work. It has the resources whereby it could make it possible for every child to be properly fed. However, it has not attempted to use those powers or resources to the degree that is necessary. Consequently, the statement in the GovernorGeneral's address on this point is misleading, because the inference to be drawn from it is that everything that could be done in this direction has been done by the Government. 
I am pointing out that the Government is not doing all it can to relieve unemployment, and that the Governor-General has been misled on this matter. Commenting on the statement made at the conference of the Victorian Teachers Association, the  Herald,  Melbourne, stated - 
It is a very shocking thing that teachers in Victoria should have to report from their experience that there are 8.000 or 0,000 children attending our schools suffering from malnutrition in an extreme form. These are the children who cannot, in their present circumstances, go to their class rooms with a smile, pass through their school years in good health and emerge as efficient citizens. The health of the children whom it has to teach is very much the concern of the Education Department, but there was truth in  Sir John  Harris's remark if he meant that the remedy lies deeper than in proposals for the provision nf meals at schools, though that might help to ameliorate the situation. 
There may be some cases of malnutrition which are due to the ignorance or criminal carelessness of parents, but these are few compared to the number that are due to economic conditions. Children are ill-fed and ill-clothed mostly because their parents have not the means to feed and clothe them better. An inelastic minimum wage system does not make proportionate allowance for the costs of maintaining children in health and comfort. The real remedy lies in a national plan for child endowment which would cost the community so much less in money than it would repay in health, efficiency and happiness. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  asked me to deal with the war. [ point out to him that if the Government is not prepared to feed our children as they should be fed it will not be in a position to build up effective man-power. Such a policy of inaction amounts to an act of sabotage even worse than that of which the Government accuses the Com&gt;munists, because it declines to use the enormous powers and resources it possesses in order to ensure the health of our children. In Victoria, alone, the cost of maintaining the unemployed under conditions of semi-starvation amounts to £1,200,000 annually. Most of this money is derived from wages of the workers. That state of affairs should not be tolerated in a country like Australia. 
The Governor-General's Speech contained the following statement: - 
My advisers are resolved to do everything possible to maintain essential production so that the needs of the fighting forces may bc mct with as little interference as possible with the substantial requirements of the civil population. 
That statement is not correct. Proof that the Government has not done everything possible in this direction is to be found in the number of our unemployed. When so many of our men are idle it cannot be said that we are building up our material resources. Of course, statements of this kind are put into the mouth of the Governor-General; but they are not fair to His Excellency as they cause him to be regarded with suspicion, lt is not His Excellency; but members of the Government, who are responsible for misleading the people in this way. 
Another important matter is referred to in paragraph 6 of the GovernorGeneral's Speech - 
My advisers have given full consideration to the problem of financing the huge costs of war. They axe convinced that, while a liberal and modern approach must be made to it, there is no easy path to be followed. They are resolved to avoid the evils of monetary inflation, since it imposes unjust and inequitable financial burdens, particularly upon the wage and salary earner, destroys public confidence, is destructive of savings and would lead inevitably, if pursued, to financial collapse and post-war depression. 
The truth is that the Government is inflating the currency. Inflation occurs when the purchasing power of the £1 note is reduced progressively below that of the sovereign. On that basis it has been reduced by fully 60 per cent. Consequently, the purchasing power of the present basic wage is less than that of 1907 when the basic wage was first fixed by the Arbitration Court. This statement may seem to be an exaggeration, but it is not. The purchasing power of the first basic wage, fixed in 1907, was that of two and one-tenth sovereigns, or £2 2s. To-day, the basic wage is £4 ls. in some States and £4 2s. in others.  For  two and one-tenth sovereigns to-day, with the price of sovereigns at £2 10s. each, one could purchase 105 loaves of bread at ls. a loaf, but with £4 ls. only 81 loaves can be purchased. 
No, I am basing it on the price of sovereigns. On the basis of the price of gold, which to-day in the United States of America is £12 12s. an oz., that comparison would be even less favorable to the purchasing power of the basic wage to-day. I have taken the lowest estimate, and I have used figures supplied by the Commonwealth Bank. 'These show that the purchasing power of the basic wage to-day has been reduced by fully 60 per cent: Yet we are told in the Governor-General's Speech that there is to be no inflation. Inflation . and . depreciation are synonymous terms. Not only has the value of the basic wage been reduced, but in addition the purchasing power of the old-age pension, which is non-adjustable in accordance with the cost of living figures, and of the wages of those who have not access to price-fixing tribunals, have also been reduced by 60 per. cent. The position in this respect is being deliberately misrepresented by the Government and by the Arbitration Court. Unfortunately people who do not 'know any better are being made to believe that they are receiving increased wages, when they are paid a basic wage of £4 ls. or £4 2s. The real position is that, as the result of inflation or currency depreciation, in terms of the sovereign, the purchasing power of the basic wage is 60 per cent, 'below what it was in 1907. That cannot be disputed by any honorable senator, or by any other authority. 
I have given it in terms of the £1 note. The basic wage to-day is £4 ls. or £4 2s. in terms of the £1. note, but in terms of sovereigns the purchasing power of that basic wage is 60 per cent, below what it would be if that wage were paid in sovereigns. 
I have already pointed that out to honorable senators. A sovereign to-day would purchase 50 loaves of bread at ls. a loaf, but the £1 note will purchase only twenty loaves. 
I have also given that comparison and it proves conclusively - I emphasize the word conclusively - that the statement made by the Governor-General is, to say the very least of it, not correct, and is grossly misleading. Actually, the whole position is being misrepresented to the detriment of the wage-earners, and the people generally, but to the advantage of the private banks and others responsible for the faking manipulating of the currency. 
By this Government. Were the reverse process in operation, the basic wage to-day would be considerably in excess of £4 ls. If the purchasing power of the basic wage in 1907 had been maintained, the purchasing power of the basic wage to-day would be at' least £5 5s. Compare the state of affairs outlined by the Governor-General with what is actually happening. This policy of depreciating the currency is to a great degree responsible for the impoverishing conditions that the people of Australia have to face, and these conditions are primarily the cause of strikes. Posing as super-patriots, honorable senators on the other side of the chamber condemn the men now engaged in a strike, but the fact is that it is the super-patriots who are primarily responsible for the strike, because they have progressively reduced the purchasing power of the basic wageearner, notwithstanding the fact that as a result of the introduction of machinery, and of improved working conditions generally, the productivity of the workers lias increased. There we have the paradox, the contradiction, the antithesis; on the one hand production is increasing beyond anything that has ever been possible before, and yet on the other hand the purchasing power of the worker is being reduced to the irreducible minimum. Yet honorable senators ask why the men are engaged in a strike. They would have us believe that the miners are traitors to the country, and that Government supporters are the only patriots on whom the nation can rely for assistance in this war. I refuse to accept their n san ranees in that regard, and I repeal that, consciously or unconsciously, they are the ones who are actually sabotaging the coal-mining industry to-day. It has been suggested that these strikers, who have been condemned as Communists, traitors, and saboteurs, should be suppressed, together with their publications. Not only has the suggestion been made, but I understand that action in that direction has been taken. I remand the Government that action and reaction are equals as well as opposites. If that line of action is to be pursued to the degree threatened, then even more drastic reaction will be the result. 
No. I am trying to direct attention to the facts which honorable senators opposite would ignore. Although the Government may succeed in deceiving some people, it cannot deceive honorable senators on this side of the chamber. I have brought under the notice of honorable senators statements made in the name of the Governor-General which I regard as grossly misleading, and I have pointed out that the Government is associated with a process that is corrupt inasmuch as it misrepresents the whole position. 
I say it again, and I trust that as a result of repetition it will have some effect. 
It is proof at least to my satisfaction, and, I think, to the satisfaction of all intelligent people who are capable of understanding the position. The facts I have given with respect to currency cannot be denied, and I challenge any honorable senator to say that they are wrong. 
I am not concerned with whether  Senator Darcey  agrees .or disagrees with me; at the moment I am stating my own case, and emphasizing a fact which I think should be emphasized, namely, that honorable senators opposite are associated with a process of currency faking which is primarily the cause of the present strike. As the result of a rise in prices, the workers find that they cannot purchase the things they need; they cannot obtain work, and cannot provide bread for themselves and their families. Yet honorable senators opposite wonder why the miners resent what is being done, and why they take up a stand against oppression. 
If the honorable senator understood what is happening, he would see that the savings bank deposits do prove what I am saying. There, is an old but very true saying, that figures cannot lie but liars can figure. Action is threatened to suppress the Communists, who are the creations, not the creators, of impoverished conditions. As one honorable senator said, were there no impoverished conditions, there would be no Communists, and no response to any appeal that they might make. In my opinion, the Government is just preparing the first step towards the suppression of political opponents. If the action against the Communists is successful the Government will discover that certain leading representatives of the Labour movement are Communists, and together with their publications, should be suppressed. Finally, if there is no serious opposition by the workers, there will be created in Australia precisely the same state of affairs as exists in Germany and is responsible for the war. 
I am in favour of any political group being allowed to express its views, provided it is reasonably careful in its choice of words, and of terms. The Communists should enjoy the same rights as the political party to which the honorable senator belongs. If the Government has its way, not only will the Communists and their publications be suppressed, but the same action will 'be taken against Labour publications, and perhaps religious publications, some of which were banned during the last war. 
Very little imagination is required when the facts are on record. I know from my' own experience exactly what was done before. I could show to honorable senators  bundles  of galley proofs which I use as exhibits, when necessary, illustrating how Labour articles were suppressed, and also how articles criticizing or reflecting on the Government in , any way, were " bluepencilled " by the censors. If that is not a prelude to fascism, then I do not know the meaning of fascism. 
During the Corio by-election, the Melbourne  Herald,  of the 15th February, contained the following statement: - 
Tho position is that a small and bitter section of the people, who are anti-British, have an unduly great influence in the Federal Labour party, and on this occasion are conducting its policy. 
Can it he suggested that men like the Leader of the Australian Labour party  (Mr. Curtin),  or the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Collings),  are dominated by anti-British influences? There was no suggestion that, because it stated deliberate and malicious untruths, the Melbourne  Herald  should be censored. There was not a single protest from any section of the community that is opposed to the Labour party. On the contrary, leading representatives of antiLabour parties repeated this statement, and even the Prime Minister himself solemnly assured the electors of Corio that Hitler was waiting to see which way they voted. In fact, he said every vote for Labour would be a vote for Hitler. If the right honorable gentleman were an ignorant person I could make allowance for a statement of that kind; but, during the last war, he expressed opinions to the contrary, and showed that powers had been abused in exactly the same way as he has abused his own powers. If the Government is successful in suppressing Communists, the next step will be to suppress honorable senators on the Opposition side and the newspapers which the Labour party controls, so that the only voice permitted to be heard will be that of the Government. In the leading evening paper of Australia, which is controlled by one of the most powerful- financial groups in this country, a statement was made which the owners of the newspaper knew to be untrue, but it was never subsequently modified or withdrawn. When persons in responsible positions hold my colleagues up to contempt, and appeal to the strongest of all prejudices, that of race, we have an indication of what would follow if appropriate action were not taken by this Parliament. This newspaper did not appeal to reason, or to our conception of right and wrong, but to vicious racial prejudice, in order to discredit a respectable returned soldier Labour candidate and the party which he represented. It made a similar statement on the 2nd February as follows: - 
The anti-British complex, which is the dominant factor in the Federal Labour party to-day, is not concealed. 
So I return to the point that I made at the outset, that if an attempt to suppress Communists and their publications were successful, a further effort would be made to suppress Labour journals. 
The Minister would suppress any newspaper holding views in opposition to his own. Any newspaper would be regarded as seditious if it challenged the policy of the Government, and showed that the Government was responsible for the state of affairs that has arisen in the coal-mining industry. It could be shown beyond doubt that the policy to which the Government is committed is that which has reduced the miners to a state of desperation in which they have no alternative to the action that they have taken. 
When Judge Drake-Brockman gave his award he had examined the miners' claims exhaustively in order to satisfy himself as to the conditions under which they were working. On the 29th June, 1939, he decided that the hours of employment for all workers should be 40 a week, these to be worked in five days, Monday to Friday, of eight hours. These hours were to be inclusive of crib time for underground workers, and exclusive of crib time for workers on the surface. The award also provided that the members of the craft unions should receive an increase of the daily rate by 20 per cent, in order to compensate them for loss of earnings occasioned by the reduction of the number of working days. The Miners Federation was invited to claim the same adjustment in respect of the daily rates, and two weeks' annual leave also was granted. An appeal was made by the employers to the Full Court on the 21st August, 1939, and, without hearing any evidence, that court decided, in a majority judgment delivered on the 4th October, 1939, that the rates of underground workers and of employees engaged on the surface in handling coal from the pit mouth to the wagons should be 40 a week, five days of eight hours each, inclusive of crib time, but that the hours of other workers, including engineers and engine drivers, should be those operating prior to the dispute. Judge DrakeBrockman dissented from the Full Court's decision. The hours of a large number of members were restored to 43 and 44 a week, and the increase of the daily rate was withdrawn. Some members of the Miners Federation. who had in the past worked only eight hours a day, inclusive of crib time, actually had their daily hours increased by half an hour, hut the daily rate of pay was not altered. 
In a statement issued by the general secretary of the combined mining unions on the 12th February, 1940, in reply to the Prime Minister, he said,  inter alia - 
After the judgment was delivered, Judge Piper admitted that he did not know what the hours of work in the coal-mining industry were, and he and the Chief Judge had to order a correction of the Full Court decision. When the Chief Judge was asked in the court to give an interpretation of the " face-to-wagon group ", and also who should enjoy the 40 hours, he said he would have to visit the minefields to find out. 
The appeal was decided without the hearing of any evidence. Although these cases may be argued by legal men, as we know they are, this is grossly improper, and is not likely to appeal to working men, who at least have some elementary idea of what is known as British justice. Matters of this kind should not be decided  ex parte.  We cannot expect thousands of miners, who toil in the bowels of the earth for a few paltry shillings a day, to tolerate this kind of thing. Arbitration will never be successful if judges play fast and loose with the powers that they possess. 
The leaders play a very small part in the affairs of the unions. As a matter of fact, the advice of union leaders is often rejected. I interviewed hundreds of the coal-miners last week, and many of them, by their education, status and strength of character, are probably just as qualified as, or even more qualified than, honorable senators opposite to hold ministerial positions, [f those honorable senators desire to convince themselves on this matter, I advise them to meet the miners individually. 
No, they listened to him, and those who would have prevented them from listening were compelled to remain silent. As I have already said, Judge Drake-Brockman examined the miners' grievances as exhaustively as was humanly possible. But the other judges intervened - one of them admitted that he would not know a coal-pit if he tumbled into one - and gave their decision without hearing evidence. Do Government supporters regard that as justice? 
They were not invited to do so An application was made by the owners, and it was heard  ex parte. 
That may be the Minister's opinion. I am prepared to stand or fall *by what I say.  Senator Allan  MacDonald suggested this afternoon that under a revision of our arbitration system unionists should become responsible not to their leaders, but to judges of the Arbitration Court. Just imagine a judge like Judge Piper, who has no knowledge whatever of the coalmining industry, sitting in authority and giving judgments in respect of disputes in that industry! It seems to me incredible that any honorable senator should make such a suggestion, and then go on to argue that we cannot have onesided arbitration. That is exactly what we have at the present time. Under existing procedure in the Arbitration Court, an award is based not on the value of the wealth produced by the workers, but on the cost of subsistence, plus a margin for skill. If the average wageworker who appears before the Arbitration Court were prepared to live on less than he is receiving to-day, the award would be based on that lower figure. We know also that immediately an award is made, if it is higher in money terms than an existing award, there is an immediate increase of the cost of commodities which the wage-earner must purchase. Thu3, almost before the ink on an award is dry the resultant increase of wages is nullified. Can any honorable senator say that that is not one-sided arbitration? The employer has power to increase his profits almost to any limit that is possible or consistent with his principles. If he is making a profit of 5 per cent., he can increase it to 10, 15, 30 or even 100 per cent, without interference by any tribunal. The employer is, in fact, a law unto himself. 
I have, and I am glad to have the Minister's helpful interjection. I repeat, that the employer is practically a law unto himself, and whenever the wage-worker is awarded a higher wage, he immediately finds himself up against higher costs of commodities which offset the increase of wages received. 
If it were not correct we should not have heard of the appointment of price-fixing commissioners. Is it not a fact that these pricefixing authorities were appointed because employers were raising prices so glaringly and to such an alarming extent that the Government had to do something to curb their activities ? 
I am speaking of things that happened before this war broke out. . If, however, the wage-earners, either individually or collectively, seek to increase the price of their labour power, the only commodity which they have for sale, they are branded almost immediately as traitors to their country. And  Senator Allan  MacDonald would have us believe that our arbitration system is not one-sided ! It is because it is one-sided that we have these strikes, of which complaint is made in this chamber. 
No, because I believe that whenever there is a dispute between two or more parties, an arbitrator should be appointed to settle it. I do not think that anything can be said against the principle because it is a rational procedure, and experience has proved that it is a satisfactory means of settling disputes. But when the arbitrators appointed have no knowledge of an industry they cannot be expected to judge impartially or determine an issue on its merits. Judge Piper may be sound in criminal and civil law and procedure. In bis capacity as a judge of the Arbitration Court he may desire to do what he thinks is right and proper; but he lacks experience of the coal-mining industry. Judge DrakeBrockman, on the other hand, is a man of wide experience. Prior to his appointment to the bench he was for many years  president  of the Employers Federation and was associated with negotiations between the representatives of unions and the employers for the settlement of disputes and the fixing of wages and conditions. He has a knowledge of industrial processes which Judge Piper could not be expected to possess, and I submit that his award for the coal-mining industry is worthy of much greater consideration than is that of Judge Piper. 
That does not matter. 
The judges of the Arbitration Court, like other persons, are human and are liable to make mistakes. No exception is taken to the procedure of the court, but strong exception can be taken, and on very good grounds, to the appointment as arbitrator of a man who has not the necessary knowledge to enable him to arbitrate in accordance with the facts as they are known. Judge Drake-Brockman went to no end of trouble to ascertain the facts in connexion with the coal-mining industry. The question of hours should have been argued before the court, for the reason that as the hours have not been reduced over the years, there is a very large idle population of miners on the fields. There is a large number of men who would be only too glad to work in the mines if an opportunity offered; but because the hours in the industry have not been reduced, additional labour could not be employed and these men were thrown out of work. The miners take the stand that the hours of work should be reduced, and the wages increased in order to secure an equitable adjustment of conditions in the industry. It was not competent for a judge of the Arbitration Court, without hearing evidence, to make a decision as to the hours. 
Yes. 
The Full Arbitration Court. 
I am referring to the members of the miners' union working on the surface. 
Nevertheless, the question of hours should have been argued before the court and that was not done. When I review this position and find that the Government is refusing to use its powers to bring about a settlement of the dispute, I am inclined to believe that for political and profit-making purposes, Ministers would rather -that the dispute continued. 
It has authority to order a compulsory conference. It has power to summon the employers and representatives of the miners' union before the court to go into the matter again. 
I am suggesting what the Government can do. I refuse to allow  Senator Dein  to confuse rue,, I have had too much experience to be side-tracked by any honorable senator. The Government, in my opinion, has the power to order a settlement of this dispute in a way that would be satisfactory to all concerned. The Government has the power to arrange for the dispute to come before the court, and for the mines to continue working; but instead of doing so it merely allows the position to drift from bad to worse. This suggests that the Government wishes the dispute to continue so that the desperate situation which develops may be used as a pretext to introduce and enforce greater coercive measures. 
I am judging the position on its merits. The Government desires the dispute to continue so that when the next general election is held it will be said, as it was said during the Corio by-election by the Melbourne  Herald  and the Melbourne  Argus,  that the Labour movement is dominated by Communists who are doing everything possible to disrupt industry in this country. That is the position in which the Government would like to be placed for the purpose of discrediting the Labour party. 
If that were so it would not have won the Corio byelection. When the facts were stated, as I am stating them this evening, a big majority of the electors in Corio supported the Labour candidate. That byelection was won by the Labour party in a wartime' atmosphere, and when the press was more malicious and more unscrupulous towards the Labour party than it would have been in peacetime. The Corio by-election was won with the whole force of the Government and its candidate arrayed against the Labour party. It is not true that the Labour party has discredited itself as the Assistant Minister has said. Efforts made to discredit .it have failed. Judged by its action and the attitude it has adopted with respect to the coal strike, the Government would rather the dispute continue in order to create tho impression that Communists are responsible. Impoverishment and poverty exist on the coal-fields, owing to the decreased purchasing power of the currency and the refusal of the court to reduce the hours of labour. No one can truthfully say that the Government has not the power to intervene. The Prime Minister stated that he would not interfere with the court. No one has asked him to do so. We only suggest that he should exercise the powers which he possesses. 
The miners distrust the Arbitration Court and have good reason for doing so. 
The miners distrust the present system for reasons which would be adopted by honorable senators opposite if they were miners. 
To conform to legal procedure; but they have found the dice loaded against them. As  Senator Sheehan  suggested, the employers should approach the court. The coal-owners who have succeeded in upsetting the DrakeBrockman award do not want to give to the men any more than they can help. The Government, which is supposed to represent the majority of the people, is responsible for throwing thousands of workers out of employment and causing undue hardship to thousands of others because it refuses to exercise the powers which it possesses. 
It could exercise the powers it has under the National Security Act, and under the Arbitration Act; but it refuses to do so because it represents persons such as honorable senators opposite, who are making profits out of. the coal-mining industry. The Government is influenced more by the economic interests of the coalowners than by the interests of the coalminers. Wages are being reduced by a depreciated currency and increased prices. Fewer men are now employed,, the output is increasing, and thousands of men living in a state of semi-starvation are denied the right to work. Only last week I met some of the men and their representatives and I heard what they had to say. I also read the Prime Minister's speech, and consequently had an opportunity to form a reliable opinion. I have been associated with industrial disputes throughout practically the whole of my life. 
I have worked in one, and coal-mining is one of the last jobs I would take. But that is not the point. Most of the men are working under duress and now, when the limit has been reached, they have decided to take a stand. This dispute has been capitalized in the interests of the coalowners and the shareholders. I am forced to state the facts. 
I am emphasizing the facts and making these statements with the object of provoking honorable senators opposite to state what they are prepared to do to bring about a settlement of the dispute. According to what was stated in the Governor-General's Speech, and what has been said by the Prime Minister and other Ministers, additional coercive measures are to be employed ; but I see no effort or inclination on the part of Ministers and those supporting them to face the position fairly and squarely and to deal with these mcn as man to man. The Government proposes to use the bludgeon of the law to compel these employees to accept its will. 
When the law is fair; but for the moment I am more concerned with the would-be law-maker3 than with the law itself. If some of the law-makers were the men they should aspire to be this dispute would not last a day longer. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes)  . - Order ! Interjections must cease. 
Order ! That remark is disorderly and must' be withdrawn. 
The honorable senator has withdrawn the statement. 
Yes, upon thinking the matter over, I consider that  Senator Lamp  should apologize for calling another honorable senator a German, the international situation being what it is. Will you apologize,  Senator Lamp? 
We cannot have that sort of thing. You must withdraw that statement,  Senator Dein. 
And now,  Senator Lamp,  you must apologize to the honorable senator. 
That is not an apology. 
Then I shall have to leave it in the hands of the Senate, but first I want to give  Senator Lamp  every opportunity to apologize for a statement which he should never have made. 
I wish now to refer to the Government's proposal for the dilution of labour in skilled industries. Dilution of labour i3 nothing new in the industrial scheme of things. Ordinarily it takes place just to the degree that the industrial process can be simplified and subdivided, and skilled workers can be replaced by semiskilled workers, or children, at much lower rates of pay. But the difference between the dilution which operates in the ordinary way and that proposed by the Government is that the Government proposes to speed up the process. Honorable senators will recall that last year 1 directed their attention to the fact that many thousands of young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty were not being trained for any skilled work or encouraged to cultivate useful working habits which would qualify them to become useful craftsmen. I said then that if .war came the nation would be obliged to avail itself of the services of these men. War has come, and the Government now requires the services of more trained men. I point out that my criticism of the Government's scheme is based, not on any information which I have received from the Government, but on the agreement which the Government proposed to the members of the Amalgamated Engineering Union. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collett)  adjourned. 
.- To-day,  Senator Aylett  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government has fixed the price paid for flax to the growers? 
If bo, why did they not fix the price of the processed fibre, instead of calling tenders for same? 
Is it not a fact that Flax Fibres Pro prietary Limited hold all the seed in Australia and are the only people in a position to tender ? 
Has any tender been accepted yet for the supply of flax fibres ; if so, at what price? 
The Minister has supplied the following answers: - 
Tenders were called for the supply of flax fibre and tow and one condition of the supply is that producers of flax straw shall be paid promptly at rates which have produced increasing quantities of straw in recent years. This rate is  £5  -a ton for standard quality. 
There is no current or established rate for fibre and tow. Despite many attempts by various interests, the processing of . flax has not been developed sufficiently  to  ascertain the costs of efficient production  is  Australia. 
No control has . been exercised in seed. 
Tenders were invited to discover all potential suppliers. 
No. Details will be announced if and when any tender is accepted. 
What is the present method of calling for applications for defence contracts? 
Are tenders called? 
Are accounts connected with such con tracts subject to the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral ? 
The Minister has supplied the following answers: - 1 and  2.  Normal practice is for tenders to be invitedby public advertisement, and with the exception of certain requirements such as  supplies and services for camps of training, &amp;c, tenders for which must necessarily be confined to the State or locality concerned, tenders for all large bulk requirements are invited throughout the Commonwealth. However, it has been found necessary to requisition production capacity or to distribute orders in other ways' to secure the large quantities  of  cloth, and clothing, boots,  hats,  &amp;c, urgently needed for the Defence Forces. Allocations and prices are determined after conferences with manufacturers having regard to civil needs, to previous tender and contract rates, and in some cases after investigation by the Prices Commissioner. 
Yes. 
I am sorry that I have not been able to get any answers to the questions I have asked this session regarding the raising of money for war purposes. For that reason  1  placed a question on the notice: paper this morning. There are three ways of raising money for the war: First, by taxation, which really amounts to a confiscation of the people's money; secondly, by public subscriptions to war loans by way of bonds; and, thirdly, by borrowing in the usual way through the banks. Any money obtained from the people by the purchase of war bonds for cash is worth at least ten times as much as is subscribed by the banks, yet it seems that the Government's programme provides almost wholly for the raising of money through the hanks. If the public -subscribes £2,000,000 in cash it will be quite competent for the Commonwealth Bank to advance to the Treasurer £20,000,000 on the cash so provided. I therefore suggest to the Government that ' it should look more and more to this means of raising the money that it needs. The, purchase of bonds by the people is undoubtedly the best means available to supply funds. It was to direct attention to that fact that I put my question on the notice-paper. I took the action also because the members of the Government appeared to be at sea whenever I ask a question about finance. 
 I take this opportunity to make an appeal to the Government to proceed with the erection of the new post office at Inglewood, Perth, in view of the development which is occurring there. A block of land has already been purchased for this purpose, but it is not practicable to send telegrams or purchase stamps on a block of land. A building and some staff are required. Hitherto when I have been asked by the people of Inglewood what is being done to provide them with their promised post office, I have been obliged to reply that the Government needs what money it has available for war purposes; but. as £1,600 has been provided on the Estimates for this post office I urge that the work be put in hand. I have already had reason to complain about the deficiency of the Government's works programme in Western Australia. I therefore feel fully justified in urging that this particular job be put in hand at once. Non-official post offices do not provide for the requirements of a growing district. We know very well that postage stamps in excess of 10s. cannot be purchased at non-official post offices, nor can certain other business be transacted at such agencies. At present pensioners in that district have to go from a mile to two and a half miles in order to collect their pensions. That also is most unreasonable for aged people. I therefore urge the Government, in the interests of the pensioners, and also of the community in general, to proceed at once with the erection of the new building. 
 in  reply.  - The representations of  Senator Clothier  will be brought under the . notice of the PostmasterGeneral. Consideration has already been given to the suggestions advanced by  Senator Darcey. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  uponnotice-  1.Has price control  been  established to prevent increases  of  the prices of agricultural machinery and tractors? 
If not, why not? 
The Prime Minister has. supplied the following answers :  - 
Since the beginning of price control tractorshave  beensubject to  the National Security (Prices) Regulations, and the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner has approved variations  of  selling prices being made in accordance with the provisions  of  Prices Regulation Order' No.  100  -te averaging order. As regardsother agricultural machinery, manufacturers representing the bulk  of  Australian production approached the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner and discussed with him the procedure thatshould  be  adopted  to  pass  on  unavoidable increases  of costs.  A method approved by the Commissioner is being, followed, and any price alterations are being made in the same manner as if  the  goods had been declared  by  the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice - 
What Ministers, or members of the Government, have made official trips overseas since the 1 9th October, 1938 
What countries did each Minister visit? 
For what period was each Minister absent from Australia? 
What was the total cost of each delega tion with which Ministers were associated? 
The information is being obtained, and will be made available to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
Replies to several questions appearing on the notice-paper are not yet to hand. Some will be distributed later to-day, and others will be forwarded by post to the honorable senators concerned. 
Last night  Senator Cameron  took us into realms in which it was somewhat difficult forus to follow him. For an hour and a half or more he led us along his own lino of thought, and he even introduced for our admiration poor old Epictetus, the stoic philosopher. If there were ever any stoics in the community they were in this chamber last night, and, if the pursuit of virtue is the only good thing,  Senator Cameron  has a long task in front of him should his future contributions to the government of this country be on the lines of that made by him last evening. At this stage is our history, the opening of a new session suggests to me that the occasion is one for a tacit understanding that we should endeavour to take stock; that is, to satisfy ourselves as to where we are at the moment, and what has been done, and to evaluate in some measure the proposals for the future. The majority of the speeches already made in this debate have indicated that attitude, and the tone of the Speech by  His Excellency  the Governor-General suggested thoughts in that direction. It has been a source of satisfaction to my colleagues and myself that honorable senators opposite have expressed appreciation of the difficulties and responsibilities associated with the government of this country at this time of crisis. To obtain even the semblance of a parallel to the war now raging, we should have to go back to the Napoleonic era; but even then we should not approach the magnitude of the dangers to , us, the ultimate range of which seems to be beyond the grasp of our imagination. 
Since the dawn of history, civilization, as we understand it, has been built up gradually on ethical principles, which long since were, and are to-day, comprehended by all of the great religions of the world. Reason has been the basis, and reasoning has evolved the rights of the individual and customs or laws for the guidance, protection and preservation of communities, together with human sympathy with, or chivalry towards, those in difficulties or distress.  Senator Abbott,  inhis characteristically sincere and eloquent speeches, has on more than one occasion suggested to us a philosophy of understanding and peace amongst nations; but I put it to honorable senators that to bring that philosophy within the range of attainment it must first be adopted in principle or applied within our own shores. Civilization, if it is to be retained, demands certain observances by the individual, and, until we can be assured that these are loyally forthcoming,  how can we expect our collective influence to spread abroad? We must first, I maintain, set our own house in order, bearing in mind that the fundamental duty of every man who claims to represent the people is to assist the process to the utmost of his power. The cancerous growths sapping the vitals of our established and democratic institutions must be cut from the body of the people, and the very germs exterminated. The exotic growth of communism must not be permitted to spread and give off poisonous propaganda, nor should strikes for which there is no justification be tolerated. 
Various comments have been made upon the current coal strike, communism, and the " Hands off  Russia  " resolution. It is refreshing to learn how these have been dealt with by the miners on the Kalgoorlie gold-fields. It is refreshing, also, to remember the loyalty and gallantry of those men, which were so strikingly exhibited in the last war. I had the privilege of being associated with some hundreds of them. According to the  West Australian  of the 1st April, the " Bed " motion, that is, the " Hands of Russia " resolution, of which notice had been given, was thrown out without discussion at the recent branch meeting of the Australian "Workers Union by 380 votes to 16. One speaker said - 
This notice of motion is one of the most infamous, vile, dirty  and  rotten things that have come from the Australian Workers Union  to  be foisted  on the  workers of the gold-fields. 
Another speaker, who is a member of the Legislative Council in Western Australia and a prominent Labour representative, remarked - 
What lias been done in New South Wales lui 8 thrown the Labour party back 25 years. If the union does not throw out this notice of  motion  we will go down to shame, the same as the New South Wales party. I am not afraid to say that the coal-miners' strike is the scabbiest thing put over the Labour party for years. 
These miners arc men of action. At a mass meeting last Sunday on the gold-fields, by an overwhelming majority, they deprived the Communist secretary of his office, and refused to sanction the grant from union funds of any money for the assistance of the coal-strikers. 
 No,  it was left to individual miners to subscribe privately if they cared to. In this country to-day individuals have complete liberty to live and to work. Perhaps it is not quite correct to say that they have complete liberty to work, because the trade unions impose conditions upon workers which to a degree constitute a negation of that liberty. . If we value the privileges we possess, and desire to retain them - if there is to be any post-war period for us other than one of darkness - we must take steps to equip ourselves with, among other things, that moral re-armament of which we read so much hut which, I confess, most people but little appreciate. 
Reverting  for a moment to the subject of communism, I recall that some years ago the Government proposed certain amendments to the Crimes Act which, if given effect, would have obviated the measures which now unfortunately seem to be necessary. Owing, however, to the sensitiveness of some members of the Opposition in both this chamber and the House of Representatives that amending bill was dropped. As the result of the abandonment of that measure we are now confronted with serious threats to our national well-being. 
I have just given the explanation. I remind the honorable senator that foresight is a virtue. Among our people the consciousness that we are at war is rapidly increasing. We read daily in out press of the course of the war. The Germans have discarded reason, and with it has gone, it would seem, the freedom of all peacefully inclined nations. The outcome of this war, therefore, should- be the subject of not only our hopes, but also our prayers. The future alinement of nations in the conflict, at this stage, can only be conjectured. As a nation we are definitely committed in this conflict to a part, and that is to give the utmost material and moral support to the British  Common  wealth of Nations. In that resolve I believe that all parties in this Parliament are, in intention at least, unanimous. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of  Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  has indicated that in its outlook and policy for the defence of Australia the Australian Labour party is independent of any other labour party. He has made that quite clear. He said deliberately :  - 
My desire is that there should be the maximum of unity among the people of Australia in their devotion to the common cause against aggression. ...I say to the Prime Minister and to the Government that there is no earthly reason why there should be industrial strife in this country, no earthly reason why the desires and hopes of the workers to be of use to Australia should not be mode available not only freely, but enthusiastically. ... Iam not asking any one to bribe us to support the cause of the Allies. We do that unconditionally. 
I, personally, have faith in Mr.Curtin's intentions. In the few sentences which I have just quoted he has set out clearly the views and desires of a large majority of the members of the great party of which he is the respected leader. I say " the large majority " advisedly, because I am convinced, as I am sure most honorable senators are, that some who claim to be his followers would, if they could, sabotage his efforts. That has been done to him on previous occasions. 
That clement is universal. In regard to the actual prosecution of the war, I feel that the difficulties of the Government have to some degree been realized. Political as well as strategic considerations have obtruded themselves, and upon the advice of its experts, the Government bases its plans and amends those plans from time to time as it finds necessary. Some honorable senators have complained that Parliament was not called together between December and April, but upon mature consideration of that point, can any one say that any real need existed to reassemble Parliament? Parliament instructed the Government to "get on with the job", and in due course, the Government has reported progress. I submit that its report to date is satisfactory. 
Yes, but the conditions here and in Britain are not quite parallel. It has been necessary not only to comprehend the strategical use of forces, but also to take measures necessary to ensure that the economic, industrial and social equilibrium of the nation during the trying months ahead - and, perhaps, years - will be maintained. Dealing with the disposition of the forces, the Prime Minister has drawn attention to the changed conditions to-day as compared with those existing in 1914. Such changes had in themselves necessitated the creation from mere nuclei left by former governments of home defence forces numbering in all approximately 100,000 men. This force is now in being, together with the major portion of its equipment. Then wehave the Royal AustralianNavy, of which we have every reason to be proud; its silent work is proving very effective indeed. 
That is all to Labour's credit. Superimposed on this force, and well under way, is the scheme for expeditionary forces composed of volunteers for service abroad. These are contributions from the Australian Army and the Australian Air Force. Already, units have entered the theatre of operations. This is a definite and tangible contribution towards the winning of the war. 
As the Prime Minister suggested, some critics may still ask if what is being done is sufficient. Some, too, who are anxious to help have not yet found a niche and these are impatient of delay. Every honorable senator, I think, has been approached by people who desire to make some contribution to our war effort, but so far have not been able to fit themselves into the scheme of things. They complain that matters are dragging. The answer to this criticism can be found in one quarter. Any difference between the present effort and that which commenced in 1914 arises from the fact that the situation in the Pacific to-day is not what it was a quarter of a century ago. Nor did we previously attempt the expansion of munition manufacturing on the scale on which we are now operating. To-day we are not only "supplying our own needs, but are also contributing largely to those of other partners in the Empire. After a careful survey of what has been planned and accomplished in the face ofmany difficulties - physical, material and political - the claim can justly be made that Australia is standing up to its obligations. War was declared eight months "ago. As an interesting comparison, the older generation will remember that, in the Great War, we had by December, 1914, sent abroad one division, an extra infantry brigade, a light horse brigade, and a mixed force for the occupation of German Now Guinea. Twelve months after, two divisions, two extra infantry brigades, four light horse brigades and miscellaneous units were in the field. In November, 1916 - that is, two years and three months after the outbreak of hostilities - the order of battle of the Australian Imperial Force reached its maximum, development with five divisions on the Western front and almost two divisions of man-power in Palestine, with hospital and technical units in other countries. In terms of man-power this represented a contribution of over 400,000 men and women volunteers, of whom some 330,000 embarked for service overseas. Since 1914, the population of the Commonwealth has increased by approximately 2,000,000. 
I have been interested to note among honorable senators a growth of knowledge in respect of the three arms of the forces. Probably, this has resulted from the reading of reports on operations abroad. I recall that in a debate which took place in this chamber twelve months ago, various honorable senators advocated the strengthening of this or that arm of the f orces. That view is becoming noticeably less apparent. Formerly, disproportionate views were held concerning the strategical and tactical value of the Navy, the Army, or the Air Force, considered as separate services. I feel sure that to-day the value of co-operation is better appreciated, and we can place reliance equally upon each arm of the services. The home forces should not be neglected. I remind honorable senators of the great response to the nation's call made by the Militia, and the satisfactory progress towards complete efficiency which these men, by sheer hard work, have attained. To-day, they are in a state of readiness, and they are being substantially and willingly augmented by the trainees, the calling up of whom has established equality of status and of sacrifice in respect of every citizen. This condition of affairs was envisaged at the very commencement of our existence as a Commonwealth, and is expressed in the principles embodied .in the Defence Act. 

 Senator Cunningham made a statement in regard to our defence preparations which scarcely does him justice. With him, I share anxiety for the safety of these shores, but a little more cordial and close co-operation all round will quickly remove cause for that anxiety.  His  charge against former governments of neglecting our defences rebounds upon his own party, because during the Scullin regime every establishment was reduced and defence finance was cut to the bone. No doubt, a valid reason can be advanced for the action then taken. But an equally valid reason can be found for the prolonged task encountered by subsequent governments in restoring the services to a condition of real usefulness. The honorable senator has displayed a comprehension of the elements required for effective home defence measures; but, with all respect, I suggest that he failed utterly to indicate how these should be utilized. In addition, he suggested, unfortunately, that the situation here is parallel with that existing in the Scandinavian countries. 
At this stage I should like to touch upon a minor, though not unimportant matter, mentioned by  Senator Lamp.  He stated that " the method adopted of distinguishing militiamen from members of the Australian Imperial Force gives serious discontent among the returned soldiers who fought in the last war He instanced the rising sun emblem which, he argued, should be worn by every person bearing arms in the defence of his country. As one who, for the past 21 years, has been most actively connected with soldiers of the Australian Imperial Force, this is surprising to me. Never, previously, have I heard of such a suggestion. The rising sun badge has, up till now, been worn only by the expeditionary forces, and right throughout the other services it has always been the custom to wear corps or regimental distinctions. The one exception is the Navy wherein the name of their ship is emblazoned on the sailors' cap bands. Regimental badges are worn with great pride alike by soldiers young and old. Some of them are of considerable historical significance, and for years I was privileged to wear one instituted some 80 years ago, which was associated with the foundation of the first volunteer unit in Western Australia. I trust that  Senator Lamp  is not serious in this matter, because if he pursues it, he will find it to be an unpopular move. He could, with equal logic, advocate the abolition of the little patches of coloured cloth worn  on  the shoulders of the Australian Imperial Force jacket, or the disbandment of Scottish battalions, which I am sure would be very unpopular, particularly with many members of the Senate. 
I now desire to refer to some remarks of the Leader of the Opposition made during his speech on this motion. As usual, he was impressive. As on previous occasions he used the word " worker " in  a  discriminatory sense to the intended disadvantage of honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Accepting his interpretation of the word, I would be literally  correct  if I said that nine-tenths of the Government's supporters come within  its  ambit, and there is not one who has not justly earned the title. The honorable senator knows, but I shall remind him, that ambition is part of every man's nature, and success does not necessarily divorce him from a knowledge of the struggles of others or sympathy for those who have not made material progress towards their goal. He referred also to " education ''. To me that word does not mean a close and prolonged acquaintance with the three R's, or even attendance at a college or university; but rather knowledge born of experience. In that respect, those with whom he is associated may, for all I know, be as rich as are those on this side of the chamber. I urge the honorable senator to use the understanding which he possesses. In his long and, I am sure, useful life, he has gained  great  education. This has brought to him valuable qualities, one of them being his eloquence - which I sometimes envy. He has made many useful contributions to the debates in this chamber. I have also known him, when putting forward or supporting a weak case, to speak for an hour and say very little, whilst his worthy  deputy  has achieved the same result in half the time. Finally, I would say that, as the last war proved, on the issues now before this free country there is no real difference between the major parties in this Parliament. I believe that the people would like to say to us : " Forget your petty party politics, discard your false shibboleths, and get on with our real work." 
On Thursday next we shall be observing Anzac Day. In my State that is usually commemorated by a deep regard for those men who, in the past, fought for us and whose patriotism knew no bounds. It is, too, a day during which prayers are offered for the peace and safety of the nation and for the Divine guidance of its governments. To-day I believe, as I am sure we all do, that these things should more than ever be borne in mind - that, ridding ourselves of subversive elements, we should seek harmony and unanimity in the endeavours to attain our ends, so that the members of the younger generation serving with the Navy, the Army, or the Air Force, inheriting as they do the valour of their fathers as well as the traditions of the units whose colours they wear, may go forth on a great and grave mission strengthened with the knowledge that they leave behind them a people as strong, as united, and as devoted as they themselves are. 
 The debate on this motion has been characterized by a great deal of earnestness, and, with one or two exceptions, the speeches have been very temperate and pertinent to the great issue with which we are now faced. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  gave the Senate the benefit of one of his customary orations, which I did not hear, although I understand that he showed a spirit of co-operation with respect to the Government's defence proposals.  Senator Arthur  devoted a good deal of time to a somewhat discursive dissertation on a matter which later was most effectively dealt with by the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll). Senator Cameron  spoke at length last night on the very complex problems of finance, increased prices, and extension of credit;  but I shall leave that honorable senator oto the tender mercies of  Senator Darcey,  because I do not see how the opinions of these two honorable senators on the subject of finance can possibly be reconciled.  Senator Cameron  claims that the policy of inflation which has been adopted by the issue of treasury-bills, an increase of the note issue, and the extension of bank credits is all to the detriment of the working class - a class which he claims to represent in this chamber - because such a policy results in a reduction of the real wages which the workers receive under the awards made by the Arbitration Court and other industrial tribunals. That is what we contended some years ago when certain gentlemen proposed to inflate the note issue.  Senator Darcey  believes in a wide extension of credit, and, if circumstances should arise in which those two honorable senators are members of the Government, it would be interesting to see the struggle which would necessarily ensue between the two factions, and the manner in which they would endeavour to effect a compromise. 
I shall now direct my attention for a few moments to several statements made by that staunch supporter of Labour - the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane)  - who in an eloquent speech dealt with the subject of arbitration. I was surprised to hear the honorable senator say that a few years ago some of the present supporters of the Government and those who preceded them endeavoured to abolish arbitration. I can imagine the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with his striking physique and stentorian voice denouncing us as desiring to crucify the working class by abolishing compulsory arbitration. 1 do not know how long the honorable senator has been associated with the Labour party, but I would remind him that long before that party came into existence as a parliamentary force, compulsory arbitration was advocated, supported and carried into effect by men who had never signed the Labour party's pledge. Arbitration was introduced in order to improve industrial conditions. The BrucePage Government endeavoured to bring about a system of arbitration more satis factory to both workers and employers in order to prevent both parties, as it were, tossing with a double-headed penny, lt was as essential then, as it is now, that industry should proceed smoothly and that neither employers nor employees should possess any undue advantages. It is true that the system has been abused, and, I believe, to a degree by both parties. 
That industry has been working with greater smoothness recently than at any other time for many years. I do not propose to deal with the coal strike, because, according to a report which appears in the newspapers to-day, there is a possibility of that unfortunate dispute being settled. After all, what is the nature of the dispute between the employers and the employees? Australians are rather sensitive. We have a good deal of pride, and naturally those who are at fault do not wish to approach the Court. After all, the whole dispute concerns a slight reduction of the working hours of surface workers; but surely at a time like this, when we are facing a world crisis, the men engaged in one of our vital industries should not be allowed to interfere so seriously with the general industrial activity of the whole community. Why are they on strike ? Because of their pride, they have refused to approach the tribunal which has been set up for the express purpose of settling such disputes. 
How is it possible for a Minister to intervene? What does the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane)  suggest the Minister should do? Should he interfere with the independence of the tribunal? Did not the unionists bellow to high heaven when, in bringing about a settlement of a similar dispute in 1928, the then Prime Minister,  Mr. Bruce,  withdrew a prosecution which the AttorneyGeneral had lodged against a mine-owner in New South Wales?  Mr. Bruce  knew full well the political capital that would be made of his action; but he withdrew the prosecution because he wanted the miners to go back to work, and the owners would not meet them unless the prosecution was withdrawn. That action taken by  Mr. Bruce  brought about at least temporary peace in the industry. I do not intend to deal at length with the strike. I wish merely to put right the weighty  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, because I know the manner in which he would broadcast this type of destructive propaganda throughout the length and breadth of Australia with the object of securing votes in his own State at election time. I suggest to him that the time has come when we should pause and consider new and progressive methods for the preservation and improvement of our great democratic system, which we claim has done so much for our people. Democracy must be saved from the impending attack, which, in my opinion, has already started. We are just at the beginning of a world crisis. 
I have been twitted by my versatile and experienced friend from Western Australia,  Senator Cunningham,  because of my views in relation to certain aspects of the defence of this country. Coming as he does from the State which has the longest undefended coast-line, he should be the last to state that the policy which I advocated, and which I shall broadcast again and again throughout Australia, namely, that an Empire unit of the British navy should be established south of the Equator, is wrong. The honorable senator should be the last to oppose such n move, because this war has proved conclusively that the Navy is the superior arm of defence. An air force may terrorize civil populations by massacring women and children and shattering towns. No one will deny the value of aircraft as spotters for other arms of defence; but what real achievements have they to their credit in the Sino-Japanese war, the Spanish war, or even in the present conflict? They have succeeded only in intimidating thousands of people. Germany's object in building up such a huge air arm was not to attack the British navy, or the Allied armies, but to terrorize the people of the great city of London in such a way that Great Britain would be obliged to sue for peace. I recognize that Australia must have a well-equipped and mobile military force, but no matter what may Le the strength of our army and air force, this country will not be safe« until it is protected by a substantial naval force. "Similarly, South Africa, New Zealand and India will not be safe until there is a battle fleet, based on Singapore, for the protection of the Pacific and Indian oceans. During the Sino-Japanese war, up till the time I left the Cabinet, the Japanese had landed 1,500,000 soldiers in China. That was possibly only because China ' had no navy. The landing of the Japanese troops was covered by their own battleships and cruisers, as well as aircraft. I have studied the work of the various arms in the Sino-Japanese war, and it is apparent that aeroplanes cannot fly at less than 30,000 feet over areas which are properly equipped with anti-aircraft defence. Not long ago a statement was published in a certain connexion that aeroplanes could fly as low as 9,000 feet over battleships. I am informed, however, that in a country not far from Australia it has been proved that aircraft cannot descend with safety below 20,000 feet, which is approximately four miles. I have frequently travelled in aeroplanes, and on one occasion I flew at a height of 4,000 feet over the Murray River at Goolwa, where it is a fine wide waterway. From the 'plane it looked like a narrow strip of paper. Honorable senators can readily imagine how small a target a ship would present from a height of 20,000 feet. It is claimed that precision instruments mate accurate bombing from great heights possible, but I am not convinced of that. I appreciate fully the gallantry of the men of the air arm, and I take off my hat to them; my blood runs hot when I think of their exploits which, for gallantry and dating, are second only to those of the men in the submarines. I maintain that the first duty of any government of this country is to co-operate with the sister dominions below the Equator in an endeavour to establish a powerful naval unit in southern Pacific waters. I shall not pursue this subject, however, because at present I am not in agreement with the Government, or with honorable senators opposite. The only honorable senator whom I have ever heard voice views similar to mine is  Senator Aylett,  who, on one occasion, stressed the utter isolation of Tasmania in the event of an attack on this co.untry.Despite our disagreement on this one question of policy, I am wholeheartedly behind the Government in its war effort. On the cardinal principles of defence, I think that the Government holds views similar to mine, and to those of honorable senators opposite. Although perhaps I may not live to see it, the. establishment of an Empire naval unit below the Equator and based on Singapore will one day be accepted as part of our defence policy. 
Undoubtedly magnificent work has been done by the Department of Commerce in connexion with the. sale to Great Britain of our primary products. This was a colossal undertaking and could not 'be accomplished merely by holding meetings, and arriving at decisions in a few minutes. A comprehensive interchange by cablegrams of views and ideas was necessary before action could be taken, and consideration had to be given to a thousand and one matters which do not occur to honorable senators who sit here day after day and work more or less regular hours. The economic phase of Australia's defence work is now well in hand, and the Government is to be commended also for what it has achieved in the development of the military and naval arms. The importation of large numbers of Lockheed-Hudson bombers from America is of vast importance to our air arm. I welcome wholeheartedly the suggestion that we should engage iri some form of shipbuilding, not because such an undertaking will be of great economic value to Australia now, but rather because it would create a sea sense in the Australian people - a sea sense which is so vitally necessary if this huge coastline of ours is to be adequately defended. 
I now wish to approach what I regard as the chief subject of discussion at the present moment. It appears to me that we are inclined to overlook the seriousness of the war in Europe and its possible political effects upon the whole of the world. I have made a painstaking study of the rise of nazi-ism in Germany. It has many features in common with the rise of marxism in Russia, and fascism in Italy. I recently read a book,  No  Compromise,  by a gentleman named Raeder who is a professor of philosophy at the Washington University. It is a strange coincidence that the. .name of. the-- writer should he .the same as that of the .head: of..' the German, navy. .1 commend this bookto the attention, of honorable senators.  The writer, who confesses that he is a. socialist, apologizes for .leaving the shelter..of the Washington University in order to: endeavour to explain to the people ofAmerica the danger with which  civiliza-r  ti on- is confronted. Drawing upon his profound knowledge of history he traces: the development of this movement' from the days of Machiavelli, and deals with' the evolution of philosophic thought in  Germany through the centuries; He points  to the dangers which confront the world" to-day, and deals extensively with the effects of propaganda. According to him what is now' occurring is no new develop- ' ment; but the culmination of the  philosophic  and economic preaching that has ' continued over hundreds of years. He warns the democracies that their backs are to the wall, arid that they are fighting for their very existence. "There is no doubt" that democracy as we know it to-day has many imperfections and perpetrates many injustices ; I know some of" them only too well. Our system is by no means perfect. To some people our methods of doing many things may appear slipshod and inefficient. We can safely claim, however, that, as applied in the British Commonwealth of Nations, democracy has been the freest, cleanest, and best form of government yet devised. But that democracy is now in grave danger. We have been told by means of the radio and the press that there is a fifth column in operation in this country. One' would think that the fifth column was an extraneous influence, but, as  Senator .  Brown has said, the danger of the fifth _ column is from within. Do not let us . delude ourselves with a philosophy '. fathered by clever thinkers, who are capable of dishing up their sedition to the . people in attractive and acceptable forms. Were they given a role such as that now played by the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber some of these people would be spellbinders to the average man because of their profound knowledge, born of an exhaustive study of history, their logic, and their overwhelming power of persuasion. These people are now busily at work in countries neighbouring on Germany. They are at work in Norway and Sweden, which are the most advanced democracies in the world to-day. Both are peaceloving countries - unfortunately for them, too peace-loving. There is a fifth column in every other country, and Australia and the other dominions are no exceptions. The fifth column pursues its nefarious ways, and serves up its attractive propaganda throughout the length and breadth of the world. That brings me to the point which I rose to make. This war, to my mind, is the beginning of a world crisis, which, if not checked, will result in the destruction of much that is of inestimable value to civilization. I believe that the arms of the Allies will triumph in the war, but we must be on our guard lest the conflict lead to something far greater and more catastrophic than most of us at present visualize. 
Some honorable senators on this side - I think  Senator Abbott  was one - deplored the fact that we are living in an armed world. Unless something can be done to remove the suspicion existing among the nations and to bring standards of living into alinement so that trade may flow more freely, the nations, after this war, will continue to be more heavily armed than ever. I do not profess to have a solution for this grave situation. The one organization that has been examining this problem with a view to propounding a solution is the International Labour Office at Geneva. Unfortunately, that body is somewhat under a cloud at the present time, and many countries are reluctant to send representatives to its gatherings. 
The Treaty of Versailles imposed a huge burden of reparations on the German people, and immediately after the war all the nations that were embroiled in that terrible conflict raised their tariffs, as a measure of self-protection, thereby preventing the people of Germany from discharging their obligations, even if they had any intention to do so. Et was certainly impossible for Germany to pay the reparations account in gold, and the higher tariffs imposed by the various nations made it impossible for German goods to be exported.  Mr. Roosevelt  and  Mr. Cordell  Hull, in pronouncements on the situation lately, have declared that world peace can be ensured only by the breaking down of policies of economic nationalism. How is this desirable objective to be achieved? Is it likely that France, one of the leading protectionist countries, will reduce its tariff barriers against the introduction of goods from other countries? There appears to be some ground for the hope that France, as the result of the recent economic and financial arrangements with Great Britain, will be brought to see the light. But what of the other nations? What will be the reactions of the people of those countries whose standards of living are so low as to render them such formidable competitors in this contest for world trade ? They have demonstrated a capacity to live under conditions which would mean starvation to other races. A mere reduction of tariff protection by the government of any European country would be futile. No tariff wall can be raised high enough to operate effectively against, say, the people of China, if ever they are harnessed to industry under modern conditions. Absolute prohibition is the only thing that would work. Apropos this problem of living standards in industrial competition, I remind honorable senators of recent events in the Far East. A few years ago Japan seized Manchukuo, ostensibly for the purpose of obtaining an outlet for its surplus population, which for so long has occupied the attention of the government of that nation. Prior to the seizure of Manchukuo, Japan established a protectorate over Korea, also for the purpose of obtaining an outlet for its surplus people. But, so far from achieving that object, to-day there are more Koreans in Japan than there are Japanese in Korea, simply because the living standards of the Koreans are so low that Japanese industrialists are powerless in competition with them. Consequently, and because the same factors operated, the seizure of Manchukuo failed to give to Japan the much-needed relief in respect of its surplus population. The League of Nations disapproved of Japan's action; but I was told by a distinguished Japanese statesman that expansion was imperative for Japan because of its over-population. But what happened? Although Japan set up a puppet government in Manchukuo, its occupation of that territory is purely military and official. Instead of the Japanese surplus population migrating to Manchukuo and there engaging in secondary and primary production, owing to intense competition from Chinese, accustomed to a standard of living lower than that of the Japanese themselves, those Japanese who migrated to Manchukuo were forced to return. No fewer than 28,000,000 Chinese returned to Manchukuo from the south in order to live under the rule of law and order which Japan has established there. What does that lesson teach us? Although the living standard of the Japanese is substantially lower than that of the white races, it is higher than that of the Koreans and Chinese, the results being that in competition with these peoples they have been worsted. That also is a world problem. Upon its solution depends future peace among the nations. 
The dream that we shall have a world from which competition has been eliminated is bound to fade. Instead of gazing up at the stars  Ave  should look at the facts. Let us deal with realities. 
We of the white race have a sacred duty to civilization, and must come to some arrangement which will prevent or ease the terrific onslaught which must follow the impact on our social order of competition from races having a lower standard of living. We may, I think, cake courage from an examination of what Great Britain has done in its colonial administration. In my travels I have paused and wondered at the reasons for the continuance of that primitive system of lifting water, that has operated for so many centuries in Egypt and is still retained, notwithstanding that for many years that country was under the beneficent rule of Great Britain. I have marvelled at the genius of the British race in its dealings with these backward races. The governments of some countries which boast of their modern development would, no doubt, have imported' into Egypt modern ploughs, steam shovels and other uptodate machinery with which to tear the land asunder in no time, and probably there would have been a tenfold increase of production at the expense of the fellaheen who, for so many centuries, has been content to follow the ways of their forefathers. The Government of Great Britain has wisely left native conditions undisturbed and the results have amply justified the policy. 
I have endeavoured to outline as I see it the problem confronting civilization. My belief is that this problem will emerge with greater intensity after this war. Therefore the Government of this country has the responsibility to see what contribution we can make towards its solution. In Great Britain some thought has already been given to postwar rehabilitation in order to avoid the depression which has followed every great war in history.  Mr. J.  M. Keynes has published his thoughts on this subject. The Government should, I think, instruct Commonwealth Treasury officials to examine the proposals submitted by  Mr. Keynes,  because we shall, I believe, experience a post-war depression unless action be taken at this stage to prevent it. At the moment our industries, primary and secondary, are buoyant as the result of huge governmental expenditure for war needs. After the war there must be a slackening of demand for the various commodities now being produced in such great volume, and unless timely precautions be taken, we shall probably find ourselves in the unhappy position which we occupied in 1928-29. I do not suggest that the scheme propounded by  Mr. Keynes  offers a complete solution of the difficulties confronting us, because I have not had an opportunity to examine it in detail ; but the London  Times  says that there is something in it and I submit that it should be examined by the Government. 
It is imperative that we should, at this stage, give our attention to the probable trend of events after the war, in order to preserve our living standards and our civilization. Great Britain and all the Dominions have their backs to the wall in a desperate struggle to preserve those democratic institutions which, with all their imperfections, we all prize so highly. These are being threatened, and it behoves us, irrespective of party alinements, to come together with a view to meeting the danger, instead of bickering a'bout whether Bill Jones in camp at 
Puckapunyal has a uniform or whether rugs .are available foi? horses at Torquay, Mistakes in these matters are inevitable, but surely we can give our attention to those things which in the future will mean  so  much to our civilization. 
I listened carefully to the speeches of other honorable senators and 1 have studied the Speech with which  His Excellency  the Governor-General opened this session. In one portion there w'as reference to possible further aggression and the emergence pf new enemies whom we may 'be called upon to face. This has been the view of the Labour party for a considerable time, and it is mentioned in Labour's war policy. Unemployment figures, in relation to the Government's war effort, will be closely studied, and I may have something to say on this subject later. Paragraph 8 of the Governor-General's Speech contains this statement - 
My Government has been disturbed to note that, notwithstanding the gravity of the war and the burdens it imposes upon the Australian community, and notwithstanding the fact that a defeat in .the war would imperil or  impair  Australian living and industrial standards, many thousands of Australian workmen are at present on strike against industrial decisions recently made by the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. ... 

 Senator Wilson, who moved, the adoption, of the Address-in-Reply, expressed the hope that this debate would he conducted on the highest plane. The motion was seconded by  Senator Abbott,  who made an appeal for peace and a better understanding . among the nations. We have often heard that appeal from him, although he admits that he is not a pacifist. 

 Senator James McLachlan amazed me by his attempt to link the. Opposition with the Communist party. I had always regarded him as a paragon of virtue, but [ must confess that I have now been disillusioned. I was astounded to hear him indict the Labour party on that charge. He seemed to confuse.  Mr. Hoare  with  Mr. W.  Orr, the secretary of the miners' organization.  Mr-. Hoare,  the  president  of the Northern Coalminers Association, lias never been a Communist, and. has been fighting Communists practically all. his life. The honorable senator was supported by  Senator Dein,  who remarked that if  Mr. Hoare  was not a Communist, lie was a &lt;( Quisling ". Language such as that should not he used in this chamber, because it naturally results in retaliation by the Opposition. Last night the statement that  Senator. Dein  was a German was burled across this chamber from the Opposition side. That remark would not have been made if an insult had not been thrown from the Government, benches. Members of the Opposition have always endeavoured to conduct themselves with decorum during debates in this chamber, but, when honorable senators opposite, particularly Senators Wilson and Dein, and I am sorry to have to add the name of a member of the Government,  Senator McBride,  constantly interject and  hurl  insults at members of the Opposition, we cannot be blamed if we retaliate to  the be3t  of our ability. I do not attempt to justify the remark from this side concerning  Senator Dein,  which, as I have said, was due entirely to constant baiting of the Opposition. 
Reference was made by  Senator James  McLachlan to the fact that the Prime Minister visited the northern coal-fields last week. The honorable senator expressed the opinion that  Mr. Menzies  was brave to go there, but I do not consider him to be a Daniel on that account. The coal-miners and others who live on the coal-fields are as democratic as the people in other parts of Australia. 
Yes. Surely no one imagined that the Prime Minister would be mobbed as soon as he reached Kurri Kurri. 
No. The Prime Minister and the Government denied the representatives of the miners the right  toreply  through the .national broadcasting stations to the statement proposed to be made by the -Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister speaks for the. coal-mine owners. 
Not at all. Last night he went to 'great trouble to defend the economic position of some of the mine-owners. He pointed out that the shares in some of the companies were as low as 2s., but he made no reference to tho economic position of the workers in the mines, thus showing that he is primarily concerned with the welfare of the mine-owners, He made no mention of the fact that Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, and Australian Iron and Steel Limited and their subsidiary companies use approximately 50 -per cent.- of &gt;the coal produced in Australia, There is. hardly any need for me to draw attention to the fact that last year Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited showed a. profit of £1,500,000, and a few days prior to the declaration of war, distributed bonus shares to the value of £4,250,000, 6.6 shares being distributed for every 100 shares held. The answer of honorable senators opposite to that would, no doubt, bo that anybody in Australia is entitled to be a shareholder, but no worker can afford to own shares in Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, It is interesting to note that th.ig company and Australian Iron and Steel Limited are linked with shipping and finance companies. Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited now has control of Australian Iron and Steel Limited, and these two companies control the Bulli mine, the Wallsend mine, Wongawilli steel works shaft, the Burwood mine, the John Darling mine, the Lambton mine, and the  Orphington  mine. Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is also linked up with Colliers Limited, which, is linked with Hebburn Collieries, which control Hebburn .No. 1, Hebburn No. 2, and another colliery on the south const of New South Wales. Through Australian Iron and Steel Limited, Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited controls the' Southern Portland yearn and the Burwood coal-mine. Howard Smith Limited is a large shareholder in Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, and it controls Cale donian Collieries Limited, which coven the Invincible mine in the western district of New South Wales and the Aberdare, the Aberdare Central, and the Aberdare Extended mines in the north.- This is a group of some of the biggest mines in the Commonwealth. Howard Smith Limited is also associated with J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries Limited. The biggest shareholder in these collieries is the Adelaide Steamship Company, which controls the following mines: - Abermain No. 2,  Kersely, Buckinsfield  No. 1, Pelaw Main, Seaham No. 2t Stanford Main, Stanford No. '2, Stockrington Main, and Abermain mines. The  ramifications  of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited cover the steel industries of the Commonwealth. This company is' a large shareholder in Stewarts and Lloyds (Australia) Pro.prietary Limited, and it also controls Commonwealth Structural Steel Limited. It owns Bylands Brothers Australia Proprietary Limited. and has a controlling interest in Commonwealth Company Limited. It further controls  Bullivants  Australian Company Limited and Australia Wire Rope Works Limited. Lysaght Brothers and Company Limited have big shareholding interests, in  Broken  Hill Proprietary 'Company Limited, which controls Titan Nail" and Wire Proprietary Limited and Byproducts. Proprietary Limited. Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is a large shareholder in Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited, in which it owns 104,396 shares, 
Reference has been made to the activities of the Communist party in regard to the trouble on the northern coa. fields. It is an acknowledged fact that the secretary of the Miners Federation is a Communist, but it must be remembered that the secretary has been elected to that position, and that he must have the confidence of the workers in the industry or he would not have secured the post.The conduct of the miners' ballot is just as democratic as that of any other body.  Senator Wilson  asked what the miners and other workers in Great Britain and France would think of the strike of miners in Australia. Tho statement was made by  Senator James  McLachlan that miners in England are now working 60 hours a week, and I interjected that that was not correct. Those miners are working only seven and a half hour shifts. I have here a copy of a claim dated the 25th January, 1939, for a review of hours, in respect of which coal-miners in England obtained a reduction of the working hours to the pre-1926 level. 
They now enjoy a seven-hour day. I refer to this fact simply in order to prove that  Senator James  McLachlan was incorrect in asserting that the coal-miners in England are now working 60 hours a week. The present dispute on the coal-fields cannot be described as a war time trouble. For the last three years the miners have been agitating for the claims for which they are now on strike. In September, 1938, a claim was served upon the mine-owners for improved conditions. The mine-workers also asked for a 40-hour week and the adjustment of wages on a basis which would obviate any loss of wages resulting from a reduction of hours. On that occasion the owners refused even to discuss the matters of hours and wages, with the result that a strike took place in the following September. That strike lasted six weeks, at the end of which period tha then Treasurer of New South Wales, now tho Premier of that State,  Mr. Mair,  intervened in the dispute. It was agreed to refer the miners' social claims dealing with pensions, amendments of the Compensation Act and Health Regulations,  Sca.,  to a royal commission. Subsequently, most of those claims were granted. However, the two major issues concerning hours and the adjustment of wages were referred to the Arbitration Court. The hearing on these matters was commenced on the 3rd November, 1938, and lasted until the 20th April, 1939. Judge DrakeBrockman, who heard the claims, visited the northern, southern and western coalfields. He descended the pits, and saw at first hand the conditions under which the men worked. He saw something of the work of the miners, and of the members of the craft unions. At that hearing the case for the mine-owners was placed before the court as fully and as forcefully as possible. However, Judge Drake- 
Brockman awarded a 40-hour week inclusive of crib time for underground workers, and a 40-hour week exclusive of crib time for surface workers. The present strike is not a fight solely on behalf of the miners; it is equally a fight on behalf of the craft unions. Workers in the mining industry have been brought up to the principle that an injustice to one section of them is an injustice to all engaged in the industry. That is the reason why the miners are on strike to-day with members of the craft unions. They are fighting for the improved conditions which Judge Drake-Brockman granted in his award. That judge decided that members of craft unions should receive an increase of 20 per cent, in order to compensate them for the loss of one day a week. I point out that the 40-hour week was to bo worked on five instead of six days. The Miners Federation then claimed adjustments of daily rates on this basis and asked for an annual holiday period of two weeks. These applications were granted. Judge Drake-Brockman's award operated at the Wonthaggi mine from the commencement of the first period in July, and should have come into operation in New South Wales as from the 16th August. Prior to the latter date, however, the mine-owners filed an application for a review of these wage rates and hours of employment, contending that wages and hours were matters which should be decided by the Full Arbitration Court and  not a  single judge. This application first came before the Full Court in Sydney on the 8th August, when the court decided to postpone the operation of Judge Drake-Brockman's award in New South Wales. I emphasize that this award operated for a period of seven months at the Wonthaggi mine. The appeal proceedings commenced in Melbourne, on the 21st August, and without hearing any evidence whatever the court, by a majority of two to one, disagreed with Judge Drake-Brockman's award. The point I emphasize here is that whilst it took Judge DrakeBrockman five and a half months to conduct the investigations upon which he based his award, the Full Court within approximately nine days, and without hearing any evidence whatever, upset that award.- 
I presume that the Full Court perused the evidence submitted before the single judge; but even on that point I have some doubt. 
Yes, and that is still the main issue to-day. I submit that every adjustment consequential on Judge Drake-Brockman's award could be, and would be, made in the coal-mining industry tomorrow if it were not for the fact that theprinciple of a 40-hour week is involved. That is the trouble so far as the mine-owners and the capitalist employing class generally in this country are concerned. They maintain that the miners' claims represent the spearhead of an attack for the introduction of a 40- hour week throughout industry as a whole. 

 Senator Keane. - The coal-miners now enjoy a 40-hour week.  Senator Ashley's  point is that the Full Court upset Judge Drake-Brockman's award without hearing any argument whatever. 
Judge DrakeBrockman dissented from the ruling of his two colleagues, and his remarks are worth considering. He said - 
I  have had an opportunity of perusing the judgment of the learned Chief Judge and Piper  J.  After careful consideration of it and a reconsideration of the evidence submitted, I am unable to agree to any alteration to the hours fixed by me in the several interim awards made by me in June, 1939. In my view there is no justification for interfering with the practice of substantial uniformity of hours that has prevailed in all parts of the industry except at Wonthaggi for many years past. The uniformity of hoursin an industry envisaged by section 25a of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act1904-1034, should not, in my opinion, be departed from without very definite reasons which do not exist in the coal-mining industry. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

The applications before the court are for variation of the before-mentioned awards in respect to hours. The employers seek to increase hours while the employees seek to reduce hours. No evidence was led by either side in support of the respective applications. Roth sides relied on argument and the evidence given before me as the judge of the first instance. The onus of proving justification for any variations lay on the parties asking for alterations in hours. No party has attempted to meetsuch onus. I am strongly of the opinion that if only for this reason no alteration to the hours fixed by the several awards concerned is justified. 
The hearing by Judge Drake-Brockman extended over five and a half months, and, after hearing voluminous evidence, he made an award in favour of the mineworkers; but as the result of the decision of the Full Court the hours of mineworkers were increased, and an increase of the daily rate, which was granted to compensate for the 5-day week, was withdrawn. In some instances members of the Mine-workers Federation, who in the past worked only eight hours daily, inclusive of crib time, actually had their daily hours increased by one half hour, but the daily rate of pay was not increased. When an application was made by the Mine-workers Federation for an adjustment of the wages, involving a 20 per cent. increase of the daily rate, in order to ensure that there would be no loss of earnings for men whose working week was reduced from six to five days, Judge Beeby held that the men worked only eleven days a fortnight, and that they would require an increase of only 10 per cent. to compensate them for the loss of time occasioned by a reduction of working hours; but the court awarded an increase of only 5 per cent. to prevent a loss of earnings. In reply to a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  the general secretary of the combined mining unions said - 
Mine-owners are anxious that the benefits bestowed by that part of the court which was capable of making a decision should be continued and implemented. 
I was a member of the deputation which waited upon the Prime Minister. The members of the craft unions and of the Miners Federation claim that there has been uniformity of hours in the industry for more than a decade, and that has been acknowledged in evidence given by the representatives of the mine-owners themselves. In some instances, the miners and mine-workers live some miles from the collieries, with the result that a couple of men who become " matey " drive to work together. One may be a miner and another engaged in some other capacity, but under the award given by the Full Court they cannot derive any benefit because a man working a 40-hour week has to wait an extra half an hour until his mate has finished. In the Full Court proceedings Judge Beeby expressed the opinion that the underground workers should work fewer hours than the men working on the surface. A perusal of the judgment shows that underground workers and a majority of surface workers handling coal from pit-top to the wagons have been granted the same hours. The result of this decision means that some workers will have a working week of six hours less than the craftsmen and others with whom they are associated. In the earlier proceedings Judge Drake-Brockman emphasized that the employers regarded a uniformity of hours as desirable, and stated that the reduction granted to underground workers should also be granted to all workers. The important fact is that the union fought for and won a 40-hour week of five days and an adjustment of wages to prevent loss of earnings. That has been taken away. The latest award by the Chief Judge not only prevents craft unions in New South Wales from enjoying the benefits received under the Drake-Brockman award of a shorter week, but also deprives craft unions in Victoria of thebenefits which they had enjoyed for seven months. Before the last judgment was delivered,  Mr. Munday,  representing the Amalgamated Engineering Unions, advised the court not to make an order. He said - 
The production for the six months ended the 24th December, 1938, was 108,331 tons, and for the six months ended the 24th June, 1939, was 152,500 tons. For the six months ended the 23rd December, 1939, the production was 159,952 tons. So it cannot be said that the work was in any way held up. 
Summarizing the position, it can be said that the production days have been reduced from eleven to ten, and those in the " face to wagon group " will lose 5 per cent. of their fortnightly earnings. Other workers, including most craft union members who were given a 5-day week and a 20 per cent. increase in their daily rate of pay under the Drake-Brockman award have now been awarded a 5-day week without adjustment of wages. To this group it will mean that since pro duction is carried on for only five days a week, fewer men will be required to. work more than five days, except in cases where special repair work will be made available. Many will, therefore, suffer a loss of earnings of 20 per cent. I am conversant with all the details of this subject because I was present at the deputation which waited upon the Prime Minister. I do not blame him or the Government for the strike, but I say definitely and emphatically that the Government could have prevented it. Five or six months ago the deputation which waited upon the Prime Minister pointed out the possibility of the present dispute arising. In view of the threatened dislocation of the industry the Prime Minister was advised to act under the Industrial Peace Act which was placed on the statute-foook when the present Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  was Prime Minister. Under that act a special tribunal was set up, and while it operated it did much to maintain peace in the industry. That act makes special provisions for the prevention of strife in the coal-mining industry. Sections 28 and 29 read - 
( 1 ) No award or orderof a special tribunal or local board shall be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question, or be subject to prohibition mandamus or injunction, in any court on any account whatever. 
The  chairman  ofa special tribunal or local board may, if he thinks fit, in any proceeding before the tribunal or board, as the case may be, at any stage and upon such terms as he thinksfit, state a case in writing for the opinionof the High Court upon any question arising in the proceeding which in his opinion is a question of law. 
The High Court shall hear and deter: mine the question and remit the case with its opinion to the  chairman,  and may make such order as to costs as it thinks fit. 29, During the currency of any award or order made by a special tribunal or a local board under this aft, the court shall not have jurisdiction to make any award i nconsistent with any such award or order. 
Those provisions show that the act is absolutely watertight in that the workers and mine-owners are protected. When an agreement is drawn up under the act it is not subject to review as was the award of Judge Drake-Brockman. The Government and its supporters continually harp on the Arbitration Court, and contend that the arbitration laws should be observed. The mine-workers went to a properly constituted court and after submitting lengthy oral and documentary evidence received an award, but the Full Court which sat for only ten days, and probably only glanced at the transcript of the evidence taken over a period of five and a half months, upset the decision of Judge Drake-Brockman. 
As I pointed out previously, the attitude of the miners with regard to their unions is that an injury to one is an. injury to all. What the honorable senator is trying to say is that the miners are still enjoying a 40-hour week. Is that not correct? 
And that the craft unions are the only ones affected?  (Senator Dein. - Yes. 
I answered that statement this morning by pointing out the principle which actuated the miners in entering upon this fight. The miners are just as sincere in their fight for their fellow workers, as is Australia in its efforts to assist in the defence of the British Empire. I cannot give any 'better answer. I direct attention to the industrial dispute which took place in 1930, when the owners on the northern fields locked out the workers in an endeavour to compel them to accept a 121/2 per cent. reduction of wages. There was no talk then of referring the matter to the Arbitration Court, because it was the capitalistic class that had taken direct action. The lock-out lasted for fifteen months, at the end of which the miners were forced to accept the terms dictated by the owners. On that occasion there was no extolling by the capitalistic government of the virtues of the Arbitration Court. 
That is not so. The men were locked out by the owners. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and his Government are sheltering behind the Arbitration Court in this dispute. 
I believe in arbitration and conciliation. The Arbitration 
Court is one of the finest instruments of industrial justice in existence to-day. Further, I believe in international arbitration. The League of Nations was. nothing but a glorified arbitration court, and it functioned well as the arbitrator in international disputes until some nations lost confidence in it. In Australia to-day . a section of the people has lost confidence in the Arbitration Court, and the result is industrial chaos. It cannot be suggested that on this occasion the miners have not a legitimate grievance. Theirs is not a sentimental grievance, but a real, tangible and living one - it relates to the conditions under which they work. When these men enter the mines there is no certainty that they will come out. There is greater loss of life in mining than in any other industry. Miners are forced to work under conditions which are the worst imaginable. Mines are artificially ventilated, and therefore are conducive to colds and rheumatic ailments. When the workers enter the shafts their lungs immediately become filled with dust. Their conditions of labourare the most primitive in the world. When working at the pit face, the miners wear only trunks, caps, and Blucher boots. When they emerge from the mines they are covered from head to toe in coal grime, and look like chimney sweeps. Nobody can deny that mining is the most unhealthy and hazardous of all occupations. 
It has been stated in this chamber and elsewhere that the Prime Minister did a courageous thing in going to the northern coal-fields in order to address the miners. One would gather that the right honorable gentleman had gone to face savages who were likely to attack him. Such statements are a reflection on the miners, who are just as fair and democratic as any other section of the community. In all centres on the coal-fields, the miners may be found occupying positions of trust, with dignity and considerable ability. They operate their own co-operative stores, which are models of efficiency. In one centre, there is a co-operative store which has a turnover of £300,000 a year. In organizations such as lodges, the miners hold important executive positions; they participate in sport of every description ; they are members of the various municipal and shire councils, and some have risen to the position of mayor. In fact, in the public life of this country they are just as capable as any other section of the community. Therefore, I say that there was nothing heroic about the Prime Minister's visit to the coal-fields. He went to address not a mob of ignorant savages, but merely a representative gathering of ordinary individuals. 
It has been suggested that  Mr. Menzies  selected Kurri Kurri for his visit because the miners at that centre had voted against the continuance of the strike. I do not know whether or not that is correct. 
I do not think that the action of * the Prime Minister in visiting the coal-fields did anything to assist the settlement of the dispute. The right honorable gentleman has been appealed to on many occasions to intervene but has declined to do so. 
It is not my place to make such suggestions. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  said yesterday that the Australasian Council of Trade Unions had been endeavouring to intervene in the dispute and had suggested that it should apply to the Arbitration Court. 
The Australasian Council of Trade Unions is anxious to settle the dispute, but a technical difficulty has arisen because that body is not a registered union under the Arbitration Court. With a view to making a contribution towards the settlement of the trouble, the Australasian Council of Trade Unions approached the combined mining unions, and only yesterday the following telegram was sent to  Mr. Curtin  : - 
In replying to the request of the executive of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions for an authorization for the Combined Mining Unions Committee to allow the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to seek a conference to allow a reasonable settlement of the coal dispute, the Combined Mining Unions decided to accede to their request. 
The telegram is signed by Messrs. Orr and Nelson, and is concrete evidence that the combined mining unions have agreed to intervention in this dispute. I mentioned earlier that before Judge DrakeBrockman's award was made the case for the miners was substantially placed before the court. The court then made a certain award which was of benefit to the miners. It is not necessary for me to point out that a settlement of the dispute is essential if full effect is to be given to Australia's war effort. If coal fuel cannot be obtained transport will be dislocated and the paralysing influence will spread to all other industries. A prolonged strike will not only diminish our war effort, but in all probability will cause its utter collapse. During the Corio by-election campaign,  Mr. Menzies  said on more than one occasion that Hitler was taking considerable interest in the result of that by-election. 
We have heard broadcast from Germany many things which are not to the credit of this Government. The Prime Minister said that Hitler would derive some pleasure from the defeat of the Government nominee at Corio, but I point out that Hitler will also derive considerable satisfaction from the neglect of the Government to intervene in the coal strike. 
I have done considerably more than  Senator McBride,  whose only contribution has been to sit in this chamber and heckle honorable senators on this side. Every hour's delay will render the settlement of thi, strike more difficult. 
I contend  that  under the National Security Act, the Industrial Peace Act or the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Government  has  unlimited power to take the necessary action to end this dispute. 
They did approach the court and got an award. I am not alone in the view that serious responsibility rests upon the mine-owners in connexion with this dispute. The AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Hughes)  criticized the employers not so long ago. This is what he said - 
I have been in touch with the leaders, and I thinkI can say that all those I have seen are very anxious to avoid a stoppage. 
The situation is extremely difficult, and it can hardly be said that a solution  is made  easier by the attitude of the employers. It may be, of course,  that they are wholly in the  right, but  the  fact remains  that they have taken  up a stand from which they will not  recede.  Since a settlement, if one  is  arrived  at, must  Be in the nature of a compromise,  this  is distinctly unhelpful. 
When a senior member of the Government makes observations of that nature, surely honorable senators on this side  may be  excused for offering comments on  the  position and criticizing the owners. 
Another matter which  has  given rise  to  a good deal of controversy is the " Hands off Russia " resolution at the Easter Conference of the New South Wales Labour party. 
Why have the Government and its supporters taken this stand against the resolution? Was it for the purpose of consolidating  the  defence of this country and strengthening the Allies in this war? No; the Government was solely concerned with securing useful propaganda material for the coming election. 
I answer that question by asking, why did not this Government take a more determined stand some monthsago and declare war on 
Russia when that country invadedFinland? Did Ministers wish  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of our party, to do that? I ask this question in all sincerity. When Russia invaded Poland and assisted Germany to destroy the independence of the country, and later when the Soviet invaded Finland and seized an important tract of territory in order to make Soviet defences more secure, did this Government offer any suggestion that Great Britain should declare war upon Russia? Of course it did not. It adhered to the " Hands off Russia " policy. 
This  Government  did not then suggest that war should be declared on Russia. On the contrary,  it  stood for " Hands off Russia ",  so it is  quite evident that activity in ministerial circles with respect to the "Hands  off  Russia " resolution by the New South Wales Labour Conference is intended solely for political propaganda purposes. The Government felt that it needed some such material for the next election. 
There will be another Labour conference shortly. If this Government will instruct me, I shall submit a resolution urging the declaration of war against Russia. If that were carried I can well imagine the position the Government would then be in. I can imagine also what  Mr. Chamberlain,  the Prime Minister of Great Britain, would say. I stress the fact that  Mr. Menzies  took up the cudgels on behalf of the mine-owners in order to reveal their economic position. He declared that some of the mines were so unprofitable that their shares were worth only 2s. each. I would point out that the position of the mine-workers is infinitely worse, especially since the commencement of the war, owing to the great increase of the cost of living which, I submit, has been a contributing factor in the strike  that has taken place.  Mr. Hughes,  the present Attorney-General, in a pamphlet.  Bond or Free  devoted to a denunciation of  Sir Otto  Neimeyer's report during the depression, said this - . 
Whatis wanted is a uniform basic wage and standard hours throughout the Commonwealth with tribunals on which the parties are equally ' represented with an impartial chairman to deal with all matters in dispute in each industry. 
The miners fight for uniformity. They have asked for a tribunal to handle the problem of the coal-mining industry. 
The men are receiving less than they were getting ten years ago. 
That is not quite correct. The average wage is as low as £3 a week. 
It is correct. The wages received depend upon the working of the industry. I know of men who, owing to the method of working a mine, have had work for only one day or two days a week. The intermittent nature of the work is one of the grievances of the men, because it reduces their wages very substantially. If a miner were on full time he would receive a very decent wage. 
It is certainly not the fault of the men if there is not sufficient trade to keep the mines working full time. 
Some of the underground work is on contract, and some of it is shift work. 
I sincerely hope that this strike will soon be ended. As to the influence of the Communists, that may be the responsibility of the men engaged in the industry ; but. if Communists are. condemned for what has happened the men also must be condemned, because they have followed the advice of their leaders. 
Then the Minister and his friends must condemn the men, because it is obvious that the leading officials in coal-mining unions must have ability to get the appointments, and ability to hold them. They are elected by a ballot of the rank and file to those positions, and as they have been re-elected year after year, the men must have confidence in them. 
I have no confidence in the Menzies Government. The Minister is continually interjecting in this chamber when honorable senators on this side are speaking, but he has not succeeded in confusing me. I have stated the case0 for the mine-workers to the best of my ability. Since I have been a member of this chamber I have never advocated anything in which I did not believe. I have always been ready to furnish evidence in support of my statements. It is well known that although the number of miners in the industry has been reduced by 6,000 over the last ten years, production to-day is greater than at any time in its history. Prior to this strike . there had been an award which was acceptable to the men, but the mine-owners appealed against it notwithstanding that prior to lodging their appeal they had advanced their contracts by 4s. a ton in order to meetthe additional charges that might have been incurred through observance of the award. I know of no other case in which the court has ordered a return to the original conditions. The fact that the companies which control the great majority of the coal-mines in Australia are" the best dividend-paying concerns in this country shows conclusively that the industry is in a position to meet the demands made by the miners. These men are entitled to a decent rate of wage, so that they may enjoy a standard of living comparable with that of other sections of the community. 
Whatever may be the merits of the miners' case - and I am not prepared to say that their claims are not without merit - when we are fighting for our very existence, and for the retention of our liberty, the time is not opportune for industrial turmoil and disruption. During the last few months several neutral countries have been overrun by two of the most brutal and barbarous butchers the world has ever known. The people of those countries have lost everything that they treasured, and a similar threat confronts Australia. Although one may be prepared to concede that the miners have been somewhat harshly treated under the award, the time is not ripe for interference with our efforts in the big struggle in which we are engaged. I see in this strike nothing more than an attempt by a mere handful of the miners' leaders to throw this country into a state of chaos, so that Australia will be hampered in its war effort. I regard the few leaders who are responsible for this strike as traitors to Australia, to the working class, and to the Empire. It has been stated by honorable senators opposite that the miners are loyal. I have never heard anybody suggest otherwise. They are as loyal to Australia as is any other section. I am the son of a miner, and I have been a miner myself, although not a coalminer. The records of the coal-miners in tho last war show their loyalty in glowing colours, and far be it from me to hurl insults at them. 
One of their leaders, the general secretary of the Miners Federation,  Mr. Orr,  is reported to have said to the Prime Minister, "I am a Communist". I ask honorable senators to contemplate for a moment what that means. In effect, this official said to the Prime Minister, "I believe in displacing you, although you are at the head of the Commonwealth Government by the expressed will of the people. I believe in the "abolition of the Parliament that governs Australia. I favour the setting up of a dictator, who has my permission to stand up against a wall anybody who differs from him ". It is time somebody told  Mr. Orr  where to get off. This job must first be tackled by the Labour party itself. This party, par ticularly in New South Wales, has been undermined and white-anted by men like  Mr. Orr,  and the party should take stock of its own machinery in order to clean out the rubbish. The party in New South Wales has realized the menace, and initial steps have been taken, but unfortunately, the federal executive of the party was too much tinted with red to put the officials with Communist tendencies where they deserve to be placed. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  supported a motion for the setting up of a new executive to control the Labour movement in New South Wales, and the press report to that effect has never been denied by him; but the conference turned him down. The duty rests upon the Government to get hold of these Communists, whoever and wherever they may  be. Whether they are actually members of the Communist party or not, they should be tried and treated as traitors are, not only in the British Empire, but also throughout the world. This is too important a job to be attended to by one party. The Communists are the greatest internal menace we have, and a concerted effort is required to clear them out. If the Labour party would set its own house in order, it might return to a point somewhere near the ideals which it formerly held. 
Let us briefly examine the facts leading up to the present strike. The trouble on the coal-fields began to simmer in 3937. That was followed by an investigation by  Mr. Justice  Cantor, of New South Wales, who held an exhaustive inquiry into the ramifications of the coalmining industry, and made an award. Immediately afterwards, the leaders of the miners said that the employees in the industry were in receipt of the highest wages experienced in its history, and the miners agreed to be bound by that decision for two years. In 1938, however, when war seemed inevitable, the miners' Communist leaders thought the time opportune to come to the surface, and, as usual, endeavour to bring about chaos and disruption throughout Australia. The (strike of 1938 followed, notwithstanding the fact that the miners had agreed to abide by the Cantor award for two years. 
Very soon afterwards the miners resumed work, and Judge Drake-Brockman, one of the judges of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, investigated their grievances. He saw the conditions under which they worked, and he was sympathetic towards them. After a lengthy inquiry, during which he took all possible evidence from both sides, he made a certain award, one of the conditions of which was that the whole of the miners, irrespective of whether they worked in the bowels of the earth, or enjoyed "cushy" jobs on the surface, should receive uniform conditions. When that finding was announced the mineowners objected, as they had a right to do, and an appeal was made to the Full Court. I have heard honorable senators opposite object time after time because in certain legislative measures no provision has been made for appeals. Rightly or wrongly, the appeal to the Full Court was allowed. The court decided that about 85 per cent, of the employees engaged in the industry were entitled, owing to the dangerous nature of their work, to better conditions than those enjoying " cushy " jobs on the surface, and that it was only fair that the remaining 15 per cent, should work three hours a week longer. The Full Court took from 15 per cent, of those engaged in the industry a concession which Judge Drake-Brockman had given to them. The men affected complained, but no trouble developed immediately. However, early this year, when we were about to prepare for a conflict which seemed inevitable and in which it was apparent that we must fight for our very existence, these disrupters, who always show their heads here and in every other country during times of stress, declared for a strike in the industry. They said, " Now is the time to make our demands ". Thus they persuaded the miners to go out on strike last month. It seems remarkable that the miners will not place their grievance before the Arbitration Court. The court i.-i prepared to hear their grievance. Why do they not approach it? They wish the people of Australia to believe that the means of settling the strike rests with the Prime Minister. The remedy lies in their own hands. Recently the  president  of the Northern Miners Federation,  Mr. Hoare,  said - 
We do not believe in arbitration. We will not go to the court. We will apply the economic weapon. 
What is meant by the application of the economic weapon ? It means the creation of turmoil, misery and hardship by closing the coal-mines, and in time a stoppage of industry generally. Tens of thousands of workers are thus thrown out of employment. This attitude is maintained Until every one in the community becomes heartily sick of the position, and the employers concerned are obliged to say to the strikers, " You have beaten us ; we will give you what you want. Go back to work ". That is how the economic weapon is applied. Honorable senators on this side agree with  Senator Keane  and  Senator Ashley  that  the Arbitration Court was specially constituted to deal with industrial troubles of this kind. In this instance, however, the miners' leaders have no time for the court. They prefer, as  Mr. Hoare  says, to apply the economic weapon. I ask honorable senators to consider the origin of the Arbitration Court. Why was it established? It was set up for the benefit, not of the employers, but of the workers. It was established many years ago to ensure the observance of better working conditions in industry. Before the policy of industrial arbitration was adopted employers could fix their own terms and conditions, and a worker had to take what was offered or leave it. Through the court equitable working conditions have been established in industry. To-day employers are forced to observe those conditions, and to pay certain rates of wages as well as to provide certain employees, in many industries, with annual holidays. As the result of arbitration, conditions in the mining industry to-day are the best they have ever been. [ do not say that they are as good as they might be, but it is generally conceded that definite benefits have resulted from the policy of industrial arbitration. Yet the miners' leaders to-day say that they will have nothing to do with the Arbitration Court; they believe in the economic weapon. I should like honorable senators opposite to say clearly whether they themselves prefer arbitration to the application of the economic weapon. I know that the mass of the miners are democratic. But are their leaders democratic ? If they are, why do they not say to the unfortunate miners, who contribute 9s. a fortnight to the unions' funds, that this trouble should be referred to the Arbitration Court? Three or four Communist traitors - and I do not hesitate to call them traitors to Australia - who occupy " cushy " jobs and batten on the miners, refuse to give to the miners the right to decide individually, through a secret ballot, whether or not this strike should continue. That is the only fair and equitable method by which the mass of the miners can be enabled to express their real opinions. That right, however, is denied to them by their leaders. Honorable senators opposite say that we on this side are not democratic. I reply that if the leaders of the miners had exhibited the slightest semblance of democracy every miner would have had an opportunity to say whether or not he favoured this strike. If a secret ballot were taken the community generally would know the real opinion existing among the miners themselves, and every one of us as ordinary citizens would know what  the rank and file of the miners think. I have spoken on this matter with only one -coal-miner. He comes from  Lithgow.  He said that he and his mates were opposed to the strike, but were obliged to go to a meeting and vote in favour of it. Is 'that democracy? It is the sort of democracy to which these traitors resort. They know they can defeat any resistance by individual miners by getting their basher gangs to work as they have done on previous occasions. 
By way of interjection, which was resented by honorable senators opposite, I said last night that if war had not occurred, there would he no strike at the present time. That is my sincere conviction. I have said sufficient this afternoon to show how Communists the world over accept every opportunity to stir up dissension and bitterness in industry. I propose to quote certain statements made by  Mr. W.  Orr, the general secretary of the Miners Federation, as reported in  Smith's Weekly  of the 17th September, 1938. The country was faced with a great crisis. The Cantor award was in operation in the indus try and had another twelve months to run.  Mr. Orr  said - 
The vital question in this (1937) dispute was therefore not one of organization but merely a strategic appreciation of the situation . . . We selected a time when war scares abroad had increased the coal trade. Everywhere there were shrieks for coal and more coal, steel and more steel, ships and more ships. 
This statement was quoted in the same paper just prior to the 1938 strike (when war appeared certain), with the following significant comment: - 
The strike was planned and timed a year ago. Nothing could stop it. All the political parleys, owner-miner conferences and temporary postponements of the last few months have been idle formalities . . . it is now spring - the miners will not have to endure the rigors of a winter on strike relief. Coal stocks are running low. The defence programme is now at its height. 
Honorable senators will recall that it was at a time when our defence programme was at its height that these traitors chose to strike, notwithstanding the fact that the Cantor award, which the miners had solemnly agreed to observe, still had another twelve months to run. Again in September, 1939, immediately after the outbreak of war,  Mr. H.  A. Fountain, of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, one of the striking unions, declared - 
If they want their armament programme to proceed they have got to concede us the tilings we have been fighting for. 
Then, only last week in Sydney, at the conference of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, at which the " Hands off Russia " motion was repudiated by two votes- r 
I hope that the honorable senator is proud of that knock. At that conference  Mr. Orr  declared that the mine workers would, if necessary, tie up every industry in the Commonwealth. He revealed just one more step in the campaign of disruption which these Communists, who have foisted themselves upon the Labour party, are conducting. I take the following statement from  Common Cause  of the 9 th March, the official organ of the Miners Federation, of which  Mr. Orr  is the general secretary: - 
To-day the British lion has fallen into a pit which he dug himself. He had meant it for Soviet Russia. We are not going to help him to come out. The lion is telling us " Pull me out by the tail, dear lamb, and we shall bo eternal friends". But we know full well that the lion will eat us up if he is once extricated. So all we are ready to do is to push him deeper down, to cover the pit, along with him, with dust and sand, and give this vicious exploiting Empire a decent burial. 
It is hard to credit that a journal containing such a traitorous statement should be allowed to be transmitted by post. These traitors make full use of our postal facilities to foist filthy stuff of that kind upon decent citizens. It is high time that the Government woke up to such activities. Holding in his hand a copy of  Common Cause,  the Prime Minister declared in the House of Representatives yesterday that he would be the last Prime Minister to read this journal. I propose now  to  inform honorable senators of what other members of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions have said on this matter. They are gentlemen with whom  Senator Cameron  associated a few days ago. I admit that the honorable senator used his influence at that conference to temper the hot-heads, and probably it was because of his ability as a tactician that the "Hands-offRussia" motion was rejected by a majority of two votes. 
Not at all. At the conference of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions certain startling opinions were expressed. I cite that of  Mr. A.  E. Morrison of the Federated Liquor Trades Union who in speaking to the amendment said - 
I have a family of nine, but I would rather follow my sons to the cemetery and smile over their bodies than see them wearing khaki to fight in the interests of the capitalists. 
That is the opinion of one of these parasites who is living on the efforts of the workers and who is a supporter, if not a member, of the Labour party. That is the type of man who is being protected by the brave men who are leaving Australia to fight in a great cause. 
I am not at all surprised to hear such an interjection from the honorable senator, who evidently agrees with the opinions expressed by  Mr. Morrison. Senator Eraser  is not man enough to admit or to deny that he supportsthe opinion expressed by that individual. 
I am as loyal as  Senator Fraser,  and if he cares to search my records and those of my family he will find that we have always stood 100 per cent. behind the British Empire. My record is quite as clean as that of  Senator Fraser,  whoconcurs with the opinions expressed by  Mr. Morrison. 
I withdraw the remark. Perhaps I should have used the word " apparently ". 
I withdraw without reservation.  Mr. Maloney,  a representative of the Bootmakers Union, said - 
The declaration we are asked to adopt means nothing. It should be concise and clear and contain definite opposition to the war. I believe we should to a man be against the war lock stock and barrel. 
Quite a number of similar statements were made by those present at the meeting, but I should cite only one more, that of  Mr. Thornton,  who said - 
The resolution submitted by the executive gets us nowhere. What is the difference between this policy and Menzies' policy and Curtin's policy? Curtin at Corio would have been prepared to send thousands of our men abroad so long as thousands were killed. Curtin is going as fast as he can in the way that Billy Hughes went in the last war. I hope that the " scabs " of Downing Street are defeated in this war just as I hope that Hitler will be defeated. 
Such statements are made by persons who are alleged to be attempting to bring about peace in the coal-mining industry by taking initial steps to convene a conference. It is amazing that men enjoying the privileges they do under our democratic system should express such sentiments. Why do they not go to the country that offers all the opportunities of which they speak? No one is holding them back. They will not go; they remain here and live on the union fees provided by workers. A few of them,  who have never done an honest day's work, know that if they went to Russia they would have to work. 
SenatorFraser.  -  Why does not the Government send them there? 
Should it do so, I trust that it will have the support of the honorable senator. I always endeavour to speak the truth, and I have never been charged with making a false statement. I am sure that we all wish to see the end of this unfortunate industrial disturbance which is interfering so severely with the important task we have in hand, and causing untold misery and hardship. Before an amicable settlement can be reached the traitors in our midst must be removed. We need the cooperation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and those with whom he is associated -  Senator Ashley  is in a. rather difficult position and I sympathize with him - to get rid of these people who are traitors to this country. We should then have industrial peace and happiness, and know that that which we hold dear is not going to be destroyed by the efforts of individuals such as those whose names I have mentioned. 
The motion before the Senate expresses our loyalty to  His  Majesty the King and thanks  His Excellency  for the speech which he delivered in this chamber a few days ago. During the debate many honorable senators opposite have dealt with the plans for a successful prosecution of the war, the trouble on the coal-fields, communist activities and the " Hands off Russia " resolution. In various ways these honorable senators have associated the Labour party with those subjects.  Senator Dein  made a most vicious attempt to fasten upon the Labour party acts for which it is in no way responsible. Of course, we have heard such diatribes, abuse, and misrepresentations, ever since we became a political force in this country. Speeches have been delivered in the Senate and in the House of Representatives with the object of drawing the people of Australia together; but I could not help comparing those made within the last few days with those delivered prior to the adjournment of Parliament. At the outbreak of war the people of Australia, through their re presentatives, expressed their inflexible determination to see the conflict brought to a successful conclusion. Strong appeals were made in this chamber and in the House of Representatives to the members of the Labour party to join a National Ministry, and I believe that if the invitation were accepted, our representatives would be received with open arms. Yet within the last few days this party, which it was said could assist in the successful prosecution of the war, has been dubbed as disloyal. We have been accused of being traitors and of being associated with those who would interfere with the great cause for which the Allies are fighting. After SenatorWilson had been speaking for a few minutes he made severe accusations against the Labour party. 
Can honorable senators opposite point to one disloyal action by any member of this party or show in what way our policy to-day differs from that which was announced by our leaders a few months ago? We have said that we are in this war because we believe that the cause of the Allies is just. We do not believe in the action of the rulers of Germany because we know that nazi-ism has been responsible for the destruction of the trade union movement in that country, and has destroyed the liberties of the German people. We are at war with Germany because we are opposed to the policy of those in control in that country. In the past honorable senators opposite, or their predecessors, have laid the charge of socialism against the Labour party, as if some stigma attached to the term, but they had not even approached consideration of the great fundamental principles of socialism. Their conception of socialism was as an evil monster endeavouring to devour all that might come within its power. They have said that Labour stands for the destruction of home life, for the abolition of the marriage tie, and for depriving people of their right to private property. For as long as we can remember, these tilings have been said of us. 
I am afraid that  Senator Dein  is now having a nightmare. Evidence of what I have said may  be found in newspapers, periodicals, and even in the pages of  Hansard. 

 - Senator Wilson is new to the political game, and knows little of political history, into which he apparently did not delve very deeply during his university studies. 
I should like to deal now with the trouble on the coal-fields, but it is not my intention to discuss the matter in detail; already it has been very ably dealt with by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Speaking on the Estimates soon after I entered this Parliament, I discussed at length conditions in the coalmining industry. That was in 1938, when there was trouble on the coal-fields. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber were then endeavouring, just as they are to-day, to induce the then Prime Minister to make an effort to bring the warring factions together. On that occasion, I spoke of the intricacies of the coal-mining industry, its vast ramifications, and the necessity to establish a tribunal to investigate all its peculiarities. Since that time, a judgment has been given by Judge Drake-Brockman, who spent a considerable time in investigating the claims of various employees in the coal-mining industry. One might gather from what has been said by honorable senators opposite that the only people concerned in the industry are those actually employed in hewing the coal. As a matter of fact, the present dispute does not concern the hewers at all; it concerns other workers who are equally important in the task of winning coal. The miners have a very important function to perform, but the coal could not be brought to the surface and distributed if it were not for the other employees in the industry. This dispute concerns members of the craft unions, principally members of the engineering trade. But, because it has always been the accepted practice on the coalfields that all employees should support action taken by any section of the industry, the coal -miners also are on strike. These men are being spoken of by honorable senators opposite as plotters of the destruction of Australia. As I have said on previous occasions, a special tribunal should he established under the Industrial Peace Act to deal with this industry. A tribunal composed of men with a thorough knowledge of the industry would not lightly set aside a judgment made after a hearing lasting for several months as did the Full Arbitration Court. In the course of that hearing, Judge DrakeBrockman went underground and personally inspected the work done by the miners and other workers associated with them. The mine-owners, however, were not satisfied with Judge DrakeBrockman's decision. They considered that the court had given to the men something that they should not have received, and so an appeal was made to the Full Court. Much has been said in the  Senate  and elsewhere about obeying the decision of the umpire. In this case the  coal*  miners and those associated with them desired only that the decision of Judge Drake-Brockman should be observed, and the people who did not obey the umpire's decision were the mine proprietors. They had funds at their disposal to enable them to appeal to the Full Court. The history of industrial arbitration in Australia shows that almost invariably these appeal courts have given decisions diametrically opposed to the interests of the workers. In Victoria, there is a wages board system and a court of appeal. That court of appeal has been brought into operation only at the request of the employers, to whom its decisions have nearly always been favorable. When the Full Arbitration Court heard the appeal from Judge Drake-Brockman's decision, did it examine the witnesses and the evidence upon which the determination of the lower court was made? Did Judges Beeby and Piper investigate the industry for themselves! No. Within a few hours, the work  of  the umpire was undone and a new decision was made. It is against that decision that the mine-workers are appealing. 
I admit the necessity for appeal courts in ordinary litigation, but the Labour party believes that there should be no appeal court in the arbitration field.Conditions surrounding the employment  of workers should be determined not by legal men, but by persons  who have a thorough  knowledge of the industry concerned. Whilst in this case Judge DrakeBrockman is a legal man, he nevertheless spent some months investigating the industry, and I believe that his decision should have been accepted as final. 
No,  but the  majority of his determinations  have been  obeyed. In this case we expected  the  employers to obey the decision in the same way as workers in other industries have obeyed other decisions. The Labour party stands for the establishment of industrial peace tribunals to which parties involved in  a  dispute in any industry could  go and have  their cases dealt with  by  men  familiar  with that industry. This Parliament  has  also agreed to  that form of conciliation,  for it passed the Industrial  Peace Act.  Requests have been made to the  Government  to set the machinery  of that act in  operation, but it  has refused to do so.  Honorable senators opposite  have protested  against the present industrial holdup, and have drawn  attention to the  terrible calamity that will overtake Australian industry if a settlement be  not  reached. As to that, all honorable senators are in agreement.  Coalis the life  blood of the nation, and without it industry will come to a stand-still. That has been amply demonstrated within  the  last few weeks, when transport facilities have almost ceased. Incidentally,  a  very grave charge of mismanagement can  be  levelled at those responsible for our rail transport. Within a few weeks of the cessation of the production of coal, rail transport is now practically at a standstill. I congratulate the State of South Australia which, although  it has no coalmines,  has had the foresight  to provide  ample stocks of coal, and  as a  result  is  now in a position  to assist private enterprise.  Our industries are  likely to close  down because of the lack of coal,  and  surely that prospect is one that  should  impress upon every person holding  a  responsible position the necessity  to direct  all his efforts towards bringing about  a  settlement. Yet the Prime Minister stood in his place in this Parliament and uttered one of the most belligerent speeches delivered since the trouble commenced. 
The Prime Minister holds a very responsible position. He is probably the only person in Australia who can bring this dispute to an end, but so far he has only appealed to the miners to return to work. Why does he not appeal to the employers? 
The coalowners disputed the umpire's decision. What does it matter what  Mr. Orr  or some one else has said, when there is an opportunity to settle the trouble if the Government will act? 
That is not important at the moment. 
He does not. 
Not that I know of. 
Again,  Mr. President,  I direct your attention to attempts, by interjection, to fasten theseelements upon the Labour movement. There is a duty devolving upon theGovernment to set in motion the machinery to make possible a settlement of thecoal strike. The Prime Minister does not do himself justice in this matter. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act vests in the Ministry power to bring theparties together. Why is that not beingdone? One can only believe that the Government is deliberately delaying a. settlement of the trouble in the hope that it will add to the prestige of Government: candidates at the next election, and perhaps revive their hopes of success. Ministers realize that the people of Australia1 have turned against them because of their maladministration, and that unless some diversion is created, their chances of success will vanish. So they see in thiscoal strike the opportunity and, as in former years, they are indulging in misrepresentation of the Labour movement. We well remember the tactics adopted during an election campaign many years ago, when Nationalist election placards gave prominence to the activities of Jacob Johnson and Tom Walsh, who were depicted as trampling upon the Union Jack. In today's newspapers there appear reports of a statement made by the Prime. Minister relating to his visit last week to Kurri Kurri, where, so he said, he saw much trampling upon the Union Jack. Is it not significant that, as we are approaching the next Commonwealth election, there should be these attempts to display the same old skeleton for the purpose of damaging the chances of Labour candidates? Possibly, at the next election, instead of Jacob Johnson and Tom Walsh and Jock Garden being pictured as trampling upon the Union Jack, we shall have placards showing some one else doing the same thing. But it will be the same old story, and told for the same purpose. Such devices have outlived their usefulness. The Government should find) something more original. I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
.In view of the statement this afternoon by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  that the Government proposed to open the coal-mines under Commonwealth control, will the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  give an undertaking that the principle of economic conscription will not he applied to the unemployed or to members of the Defence Forces? I ask this question because, during the last war, I had occasion  to  write to the Australia Day Fund Amelioration Committee (Newcastle Branch) and, under date of the 31st October, 1917, I received the following letter from the then Mayor of Newcastle,  Mr. Gilgower:  - 
Dear Sir,: -  Re  your application for assistance. The executive secretary, Sydney, desires to know what you have been doing during the last three months. As you were previously employed in the railway department he states you should endeavour to be reinstated. 
In  explanation, I may say that on that occasion an attempt was made to apply the policy of economic conscription to me and many others like me, but we refused to assist the move against our fellow-men who were taking part in an industrial' dispute. I should like to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate that this Government will not attempt to conscript the unemployed or any member of the Military Forces to carry on work on the coal-field's. 
This morning  Senator Ashley  asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Is ita fact that the following articles were censored on Thursday last from the Miners Federation official organ  Common Cause: - 
The decision of the miners' aggregate meetings reported without comment; 
A statement by  Mr. Justice  Davidson concerning the mine-owners ; 
The address by the general secretary of. the Miners Federation  (Mr. W. Orr ) to the Australasian. Council of Trade Unions Congress as published in several papers; 
An article from theWorker, Sydney, reprinted without comment? 2, If so, why was this action taken?  3..  Does the Minister consider that other censored articles will assist the enemy such as- 
Advice to women as to how to conduct their homes during the strike period; 
A decision against evictions from homes during the strike period; 
Notice of meetings to be held and a statement " themine-workers are willingto accept the Drake-Brockman award ", even though it did not give them what they wanted? 
The answer was not to hand at the time. I have since received the following reply from the Minister for Information : -  1, 2 and 3. Censorship now regards Com niunist controlled papers asenemies of constitutional government in Australia, and the proper conduct of the war. They will not bo permitted to publish matter of any kind associated directly or indirectly with strikesor industrial disputes. 
Other matters they must not report uponor write about are the war, war preparations within or without Australia, neutral countries, communism, Russia. If the Miners Federation removes  Common Cause  entirely from Communist editorship and control, the censorship authority will immediately reconsider its attitude towards this publication. 
This morning  Senator Lamp  asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Will the Postmaster-General enter into negotiations with the Australian Broadcasting Commission with the object of securing free wireless licences for all State schools? 
The Postmaster-General has furnished the following answer: - 
The question of exemption from the payment of broadcast listeners' licence-fees has been sympathetically considered on many occasions in relation to educational and charitable institutions, pensioners and persons in indigent circumstances suffering from physical ailments. Whilst there is a natural desire to liberalize the conditions in these cases the Government has found it impracticable to extend the concession of free licences beyond those permitted to blind persons. 
.- On the 17th April this Parliament resumed after a recess lasting four months. I enter my most emphatic protest against the decision of the Government to adjourn the sittings of the Senate for another three weeks. This arrangement is most unsatisfactory to honorable senators fromWestern Australia owing to difficulties in connexion with transport by rail.  We  are in an entirely different position from honorable senators from New 
South Wales and Victoria. I am aware of the additional work that is thrown upon Ministers owing to the war, Taut I have advocated, and will continue to advocate, the more frequent sittings of Parliament for the discussing of matters vital to the nation. There may be some reason for an adjournment of one week in order to allow members to visit their constituencies and take part in Anzac Day services, but an adjournment of the Senate for three weeks is wholly unjustified. 

 . - in reply - The motion which has just been carried does not mean that the Senate will necessarily adjourn for three weeks. It is so framed as to authorize the  President,  if circumstances warrant, to call honorable senators together on an earlier date. As the business before the House of representatives relates mainly to tax proposals, which cannot originate in the Senate, the Government is of the opinion that the convenience of honorable senators will be met by an adjournment for the period mentioned. It is not considered desirable to keep honorable senators waiting until the measures indicated have been passed by the House of Representatives. 
It is adjourning only for one week in order to enable members to take part in Anzac Day services. That chamber will meet on "Wednesday next. As to the point raised by  Senator Amour,  all I suggest is that it is in the power of the Labour party so to deal with the Communists that genuine trade unionists may take their proper place in the movement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the price fixed by the British Government for wool sold to neutral countries? 
What is the price which the British Government is charging for wool sold to British manufacturers ? 
Does the Government intend to seek an increase of the present price paid by the British Government for Australian wool;if not, why? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
and 2. This information is not available for publication. 
The price paid by the United Kingdom Government, and other aspects of the arrangement for the disposal of the wool, will be reviewed in the near future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that wheat-growers who have made contracts with share-farmers do not participate in the distribution of flour tax funds or bonuses on their share of the wheat crop? 
Will the matter referred to be given attention in any amending legislation contemplated by the Government, in view of increased production costs and the fact that owners' taxes and indirect expenses remain to be paid by the growers? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
Payment is made to wheat-growers on the basis of wheat sold or delivered for sale by them. Parties to a sharing agreement are entitled to the bounty, but in a number of cases there are rental agreements with the rent fixed in bushels of wheat; in these cases, the landlord is not entitled to receive wheat bounty. 
The intention of the legislation is to give to wheat-growers a home-consumption price for wheat grown by them. It is not intended to Amend the legislation in the direction mentioned. 
Apple and Pear Acquisition Scheme. Operation in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state who was responsible for the selection of the personnel of the New South Wales Apple and Pear Acquisition Committee? 
Can the Ministersay why the New South Wales fruit-growers co-operative societies have not been given a representative on the New South Wales Acquisition Committee? 
Is it a fact that every member of the New South Wales Acquisition Committee is hostile to the scheme? 
Is it a fact that a sub-committee consisting of the two agents on the Acquisition Committee is responsible for the directions  for  the marketing of the fruit? 
Are the market representatives for the Fruit Growers' Federation of NewSouth Wales and the Tasmanian Government marketing officer allowed access to the sub-committee ; if not, why not? 
Were strong representations made to the Federal Government for Tasmanian representation on the New South Wales Acquisition Committee ? 
Is not Tasmania supplying practically the whole of the pome fruits coming on to the Sydney markets? 
If No. 7 is answered in the affirmative, does not the Minister consider that Tasmanian representatives should have some say inthe marketing of their own products, particularly in view of the fact that pressure is being brought to bear on the Government to institute Stateand/or variety pools, &amp;c. Also would not the New South Wales Committee of the Australian Apple and Pear Board and the Commonwealth Government benefit by the appointment of Tasmanian representativeswho have an intimate knowledge of Tasmanian conditions, supplies, &amp;c.? 
Will the Minister obtain a report from the markets superintendent for New South Wales under the apple and pear acquisition scheme regarding the profits being earned by forestallers and non-panel agents? 
Is it a fact that certain agents selected as distributors in New South Wales under the apple and pear acquisition scheme sell the whole  of  their supplies to merchant or subsidiary companies who occupy the premises of the licensed agent? 
Who was responsible for selecting the panel of agents of New South Wales? 
Is it a fact that agents are collecting large sums for stamps and stationery by rendering large numbers of account sales for each week's consignment to the acquisition committee ? 
Is it a fact that the New South Wales agents are continuing to collect1d. per case for what is termed receiving and deliveryfee on all interstate fruit? 
Did not the Royal Commission, Fruit Industry Inquiry, New South Wales, state that  this fee  was  in  its opinion,  ultra  vires  the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act,  and  that there was  no  service rendered in respect of interstate  fruit  warranting this charge which did not apply equally to New South Wales fruit? 
Is it  a  fact that the receiving and delivery fee  is  illegal according to the New South Wales Farm Produce Agents Act? 
If the above is answered in the  affirmative,  is not the Commonwealth Government condoning an illegal act according to New South Wales legislation and also contravening its own Constitution? 
Is it  a  fact that New South Wales growers are " bootlegging " supplies and  selling  fruit direct themselves instead of through the Commonwealth acquisition scheme? 18.Is it  a  fact that perishable cargo, such as fruit, is being allowed to remain on the Sydney wharves for over one week? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
and 2. The New South Wales State committee consists of the member of the  Australian  Apple and Pear Board who represents New South Wales growers, together with  four  otherpersons nominated by the Minister  for  Agriculture in New South Wales and approvedby the Minister  for  Commerce. 
No. 
No. A sub-committee comprising three members of the State committee was appointed to confer with the Chamber of Fruit and Vegetables Industries on  matters  arising between meetings. 
Yes, the officials mentioned are fully consulted. 
The Tasmanian Minister  for  Agriculture made representations tothis effect. 
Tasmanian fruit constitutes  a  considerable proportion of the pome fruit being sold In Sydney. 
There is close co-operation between the Tasmanian and New South Wales committees  in  the marketing of Tasmanian fruit. The principal requisite for successful marketing in New South  Wales  is  a  knowledge  of  the marketing conditions in that State. 
The Minister will obtain  a  report on this matter. 
Neither the Apple and Pear Board nor the New South Wales State committee has  any  knowledge of such a position. 11 The Apple and Pear Board, on the recommendation  of  the New South Wales State committee. 
Some additional  costs  are being incurred owing to the need for account sales showing the sales by individual growers and by varieties. 
No, the usual charge of1d. per case is. not being collected. Agents are rebating  id.  per case to the board. 
4.  No opinion of the kind mentioned has been brought to the Minister's notice. 
and 10. It is not the practice to express opinions on matters of law in answer to questions. 
The Apple and Pear Board believe that some growers are evading the regulations. Inspectors have been appointed to investigate such cases. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce, upon  notice - 
Is it a fact that the New South Wales Government has refused to co-operate with the Federal Government in implementing the apple and pear acquisition scheme, in spite of the fact that the scheme has been gazetted under the National Security Act? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The New South Wales Government has withdrawn " its officers from co-operation in the Apple and Pear Acquisition Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will theGovernment give consideration to placing the export of fruit upon a just basis, by granting licences to all firms engaged in the export business last year, and dividing the quantity to bo exported pro rata among them in the ratio of 1939 exports? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
If each firm which was engaged in the export business last year were granted a quota in the manner proposed, irrespective of the prices quoted, the result would be a reduction of the price received by the producer. The Government will, however, consider the meansof giving to all exporting firms an opportunity to quote for fruit which is available for export. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
In what way does the Army Department consider the area of land, owned by that Department at Langwarrin, Victoria, less suitable for military purposes than the area at Royal Park, Melbourne, which the department proposes to utilize for such purposes? 
SenatorFoll. - The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
An area at Royal Park is to be used - (a) to provide accommodation for troops employed on d uty in the metropolitan area; (b) as a staging' camp for temporary accommodation of  troops  enlisted for overseas service during medical examination and outfitting before being alotted to the Australian Imperial Force camps at Seymour ami Mount Martha. 
Langwarrin is approximately 30 miles from Melbourne and for that reason alone is quite unsuitable for the above purposes. 
On the 18th April,  Senator Collings  asked the following questions,  upon notice :  - - 
What amount was voted during the last financial year for housing in Canberra! 
What is thevalue of the work already completed is this programme? 
What amount has been actually paid out, as at this date, on account of thework already completed? 
I am now in a position to supply the following,answerstothe honorable senator's questions: - 
The amount voted was £228,121. During the course of the financial year, a further sum of £108,198 was transferred fromthe amount provided for other architectural items, making the total provision£336,319. 
£336,299. 
£334,242. 
On the 23rd April,  Senator Brown  asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following questions,  upon notice :  - 
Has  Hansard  been censored at any time during its existence? 
Was it censored duringthe 1914-18 war? 
Has it been censored in any way during the present war? 
If  Hansard  has been censored, what were the occasions? 
The Prime Minister has now furnished the following answers: - 1and 2.  Hansard  can be censored only by the Parliament itself, but reproduction of any report published in  Hansard  is open to censorship by the war-time censorship authorities. I am advised that there were instances in both Houses during the 1914-18 War in which the  President  and  Speaker  omitted passages from speeches with the voluntary consent of the members who had made them. 3 and 4. An occasion arose recently when the Minister for the Navy directed the attention of the Principal Parliamentary Reporter to some remarks made by certain honorable members, and he was asked by the Minister if the remarks could be deleted. The Principal Parliamentary 'Reporter informedthe Minister for the Navy that that could be done only on the authority of  Mr. Speaker,  and with the consent  of the honorable members concerned. The consent ofthe honorable members was obtained, andthe remarks were deleted. Similar action has since been taken in one other instance. 
In regard to the serious protests to the Government against the omission of the terminal port of Newcastle as a wool appraisement centre, I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Commerce whether he is aware that for many years the people of Newcastle strove to have that city made a centre for wool sales? Will the Government give most sympathetic consideration to the protest that has come from the city of Newcastle against the omission? 
I point out to the honorable senator that Newcastle is a wool appraisement centre at the present time. An applicationhas been received from a wool-selling firm which desires to extend its business to that city, and the request is now receiving consideration. The Government hopes to be able to make a decision regarding it during the next day or two. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Army inform me whether he has yet obtained the information sought by me recently when I asked whether certain lands or buildings utilized, or proposed to be utilized, by the Defence Department had been vacated by it ? I also asked for information as to the total cost involved. 
I shall endeavour to obtain the information for the honorable senator. 
Has the attention of the Minister assisting the Minister for Commerce been drawn to the effect of the mice plague on wheat stacks in the country districts of New South Wales? What steps are being taken to deal with this menace? 
My attention has been drawn to statements alleging an infestation of mice in certain areas, and the Australian Wheat Board is taking appropriate steps to minimize the damage that could be done by the plague. 
-CantheMinister representing the Ministerfor Supplyand Development give anassurancethat sufficient stocks ofammunitionwillbe made available to storekeepersin Tasmania to enable themtosupplythecartridges required by hunters during the coming open game season ? 
Ishallbringthe matter under the notice of the Minister for Supply and Development. 
On Tuesday, the 23rd April,  Senator Lamp  asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following questions,  upon notice- 
How many artists from overseas have been engaged by the Australian Broadcasting Commission since the 1st January last? 
What are their names, and nationality? 
What is the duration of their contract's? 
The following details are now supplied for the information of the honorable senator :  - 
Eighteen. 2 and 3.- 

<graphic href="163332194005142_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following artists came to Australia of their own accord and have been engaged by the commission :  - 

<graphic href="163332194005142_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

On Tuesday, the 23rd April,  Senator E.  £. Johnston asked the following questions of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What has been the cost to date of the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Journal? 
What has been the profit or loss on the journal to date? 
The PostmasterGeneral has now supplied the following answer: - 
It is not considered desirable to disclose the business details of this undertaking of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
On the 23rd April,  Senator Darcey  asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following questions,  upon notice - 
Would the Government consider issuing interest-bearing bonds to taxpayers who are culled upon to bear the new. war taxation, instead of selling bonds to the banks as at present? 
Has this course been suggested in England? 
Is it a fact that of the three methods at present used to raise money for war purposes this method is by far the most equitable i 
The following answers to the honorable senator's questions have now been furnished :  - 
The views of the Government on the provision of funds for the current and next financial year are as set out in the Treasurer's financial statement of the 2nd May, 1940. 
Not so far as the Government is aware. 
See answer to No. 1. 
On the 23 rd April  Senator Darcey  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the amount allotted to and subscribed by the private banksin the last Government loan? 
Is it a fact that the Government is ignoring the finding of the Royal Commission on Banking and Finance, in paragraph 504, to the effectthat the Commonwealth Bankcan issue interest-free money to the Government? 
Is it the intention of the Government to bring the report of this royal commission before Parliament for discussion during the present session? 
Was there any arrangement between the wheat-growers and the Government, that wheat payments should not bo forwarded to the growers direct, but that the growers should be asked to sign a document that these payments were to be placed to their credit in a specified bank? 
What rate of interest is the. Government paying on its issue of treasury-bills, and what is the total amount of treasury-bills held by the Australian banks? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
No amounts were allotted for subscription by the private banks, which made voluntary contributions to the loan. It is not the practice to publish the amount subscribed by any institution or person without the consent of the subscriber. As no permission has been given in this instance, the information cannot be supplied. 
No. The Government is fully aware of the finding of the commission in this paragraph as well as all other findings, in the light of which paragraph 504 should be read. 
No. 
There was no arrangement between the Government and the growers as to the method of paying advances on wheat acquired. These payments were made by the Australian Wheat Board. When wheat was delivered to a licensed receiver growers signed an application form for payment of compensation and on these forms they nominated a bank to which the amount should be paid to their credit. 
One and three-quarter per cent. From the 1st May, the rate will be11/2 per cent. Total amount of bills held by the banks in Australia on the 18th April. 1940, was £48,523.000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  uponnotice- 
What quantity of wheat has Canada sold to Great Britain since the beginning of the war ? 
Will the Minister ascertain the price paid (in sterling) for same? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Thequantity of wheat sold by Canada to Great Britain since the war has not been disclosed officially, but from unofficial sources it has been ascertained that the quantity exceeds 60,000,000 bushels. 
The terms and conditions of the sale of wheat by Canada to the United Kingdom have not been made public nor have they been disclosed to the Commonwealth Government. It is not considered desirable, therefore, that the Commonwealth Government should institute inquiries regarding prices or other details of the transactions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister give any information regarding the proposed advisory board to be set up in Perth to investigate the lines on which Western Australia is able to assist in meeting requirements for war supplies? (  Vide  Perth  Sunday Times,  the 21st April, 1940.) 
What functions is it proposed to confer on thisboard ? 
When is it likely that this board will be constituted? 
What is the proposed constitution of this board? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied the following answers: - 
Nothing is known of the formation of an advisory board with the functions indicated by the honorable senator. It is proposed, however, to appoint a business administration committee in Western Australia, provision for which is made in the National Security (Board ofBusi- ness Administration) Regulations, and it is thought that the honorable senator's question may refer to such body. 
The functions of a State business administration committee are - 
To review expenditure by local defence authorities and to report thereon to the Board of Business Administration. 
To exercise on behalf of the Board of Business Administration such powers as may be delegated to the committee; and 
To carry out such investigations and inspections and to submit such reports  as  may be required by the Board of Business Administration. 
The powers of the Board of Business Administration that may be delegated are set out in paragraph 9 of the National Security ( Board of Business Administration) Regulations, which are contained in Statutory Rules 1939, No. 182. 3 and 4. The State Business Administration Committee will consist of three members, whose names will be announced at an early date. 
 by leave  - The active phase of the war, which opened with.  the German invasion of Denmark and Norway five weeks ago, was greatly intensified by the German attack which opened last week against Holland, Belgium and Luxemburg. It is too early at the. present stage to saydefinitely whether this attack is the main German offensive for the purpose of forcing a decision in the west - of which the possibility has been reckoned on at almost any time since the beginning of the war - or whether it, is simply the prelude to such a plan. The fighting in the Low Countries, however,, as been increasing in intensity since Friday. I propose, on behalf of the Government, to give tohonorable senators a brief review of thi position on the Western Front as it appears from the latest official information. To-morrow I shall give a more comprehensive view covering both the political and military fields. 
The German offensive, was launched in the early hours of the 10th May. Troops long held in readiness poured across the frontiers of Holland, Belgium . and Luxemburg, and, at the same time, large numbers of German aircraft attacked aerodromes and military objectives over the whole region of the Low Countries and Northern France. . In combination with this attack, the Germans employed the new device of dropping troops by parachute behind the lines of the defenders. 
Immediately the Allies were asked by Holland and Belgium for help, Britain and France sent strong and highly mechanized forces to their aid. Those Allied troops had long been ready for such an eventuality, and in a short space of time have taken up planned positions and begun to play an important part in the resistance to the German advance. The British advance into Belgium has proceeded with almost no hindrance, .and a substantial part of the leading divisions are now in position. Some British armoured units have been in contact with the enemy. 
In Holland, the situation in the southwest must continue to give anxiety for some time to come. According to the latest reports, German troops are still being landed from the air in this area and the Dutch have not yet regained control. 
In the north-eastern provinces of Holland, the Germans have been able to make considerable advances, as these areas do not lend themselves readily to defence, and are outside the main Dutch strategic zones. The enemy has, however, been delayed by Dutch troops falling back in good order on defensive positions, and by the destruction of bridges. 
In central Holland, despite German advances across the  Ysel and Maas Rivers, Dutch forces are maintaining stubborn resistance against the enemy in a number of places. 
In the south, the Germans have overrun that part of the province of Limburg which separates northern Belgium -.from Germany. In Brabant, however, strong French detachments have advanced to the aid of the Dutch, and are helping them to hold the Germans. ' ' 
In Belgium, the German "forces advancing through Maastricht, in Dutch Limburg, have advanced on either -side of Liege, but have probably suffered heavy losses from the forts in front of that-city. These forced have succeeded, however, in crossing the defensive line of the Albert Canal, which runs across the northeastern corner of - the country, and the position here is causing anxiety. British and French units are helping to cover a Belgian withdrawal to prepared positions. 
In Southern Belgium, the Germans who passed through Luxemburg, which was overrun on the first day of the invasion, have made contact with Allied troops at Neufchateau in the Belgian Ardennes. Fierce fighting has been- reported, and the German advance is still continuing. 
Aerial activity in tins new campaign has been intense. The Germans have launched hundreds of bombers over the Low Countries and north-eastern France, and while these have been in a large measure checked by Allied fighters, they continue to inflict considerable damage on towns' and communications, in an effort to disorganize- the mobilization of the defending armies. The Allies, too, ba.ve bombed -German troop concentrations and mechanized columns advancing in the Luxemburg area, and in Germany between the Dutch frontier and the Rhine. 
It will he seen from -'this account that the German forces now have 'before them a very different proposition from their lightning campaign in Norway. A courageous- Dutch and Belgian resistance was put into motion 'immediately 'the attack opened, and the 'French and British forces now. moving up in support, both through Belgium and- from the Dutch coast. are acting according to a' plan long prepared to meet exactly ' the present d .'iii ger!. I would conclude with a note of warning against any undue optimism. Even though the full German strength Available has not yet been thrown 'into the scale, operations so far have disclosed a formidable menace .to the Allied position in the west, and 'every effort will be needed to avert it. 

 - by 
 leave - In .submitting a. financial statement before the close of the-. current financial year, it is the desire of the Government ; to- make appropriate a,nd timely adjustments in the organization. of our. whole  economy for war purposes, and;, to let the public know in advance, -what their obligations .-for next .year .will.. be, so. that individual financial .arrangements. can. t&gt;e adapted accordingly.....  . 
The Government's decision in November last to postpone full war-time taxation until our internal economic position had improved has been justified by results. Employment has improved monthly, and our (banking system is now in a strong liquid position. Interest rates are substantially lower. The Government is satisfied that the time has come to shift the emphasis in the financial 'programme away from borrowing from the hanking system, and to rely mainly on taxation and borrowing from the public. 
The two statements that havebeen made to honorable senators this afternoon indicate that a considerable change has occurred in the world situation since, the Senate last met.The statement readby the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  will be. discussed at a future date. All I shall say about.it at the moment is that it indicates the terrible price that we shall have to pay for the present worldmadness. The Minister Assisting the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  in referring to the war activities in Europe, drew attention to a significant point. At the conclusion of his remarks he said, in effect, that we should" not take things for granted, or believethatallwas well. I drawattention to that remark because, while the conflictwas being waged some weeks ago in Norway reports alleged to beauthentic were circulated to the people of Australia ; these proved tobefalse, and they misled the people as to what was really happening in Scandinavia. I admitthatthe people of Great Britain also had false information conveyed to them...When the startling information was disclosed that things were not as they appeared to be in Norway violent repercussion, occurred. We have, in the last few days, witnessed the downfall of the Chamberlain Government in Great Britain. Actually we had been hoping that internal conditions in Germany would eventually, result in the sweeping away of the German Government; it is. notable, therefore, that the change of government occurred first' in Great Britain. We may still rejoicein the fact, however, that though theper- sonnel of the British Government has been altered, the peoples, of the British 
Commonwealth of Nations, including the people of Great Britain, still maintain the democratic form of government, It is well that at the seat of the Empire the elected representatives of the people have been able to assemble in their places in Parliamentto discuss the nation's affairs, even though such discussion involved a change of government. I direct attention to the fact that though we are engaged in a war for the preservation of democracy and all that that means, the Commonwealth Parliament is not functioning with the same flexibility as the mother of parliaments. 
-Because this Parliament has 'been kept in recess for long periods, ' and the representatives elected by the people havenotbeen given the opportunity to express their views in Parliament. I have said on. previous occasions, thoughperhapsnot in this chamber,that it isa short, step to a dictatorship. I fear that, through the ignoring of our parliamentary institutions, it is possible that the form of government which we so abhor in the enemy country, may become the form of government . in Australia. 
Ifhonorable gentlemen opposite would take the trouble to investigate the position they would soon discover that it is not a bogy. How often do honorable senators opposite find that the ordinary man in the street, and even others who maybe thought to have some higher degree . of knowledge, . are not at all conversant with our forms of government? Thousands, ofpeople throughout the Commonwealth do not know who theirparliamentary representatives are, nor do they know the difference between the House, of Representatives andthe Senate. 
SenatorMcBride.  -  That is a reflection upon the people. 
Honorable senators also very often receive correspondence incorrectly addressed.. What I have said indicates quite clearly a lack of knowledge of the details of our form of government. In the early days of federation the newspapers ofAustralia devoted considerablespacetotheproceeding of  the National Parliament; but that is not so to-day. The result is that the people are not only less informed as to what is taking place than they ought to be, but also are questioning the necessity for such an institution as Parliament. If the Government desires the people to understand the form of government associated with a true democracy, it should keep Parliament constantly in session. I hope also that while world-shaking events are taking place the Government will use every means in its power to ensure that correct statements relating to world affairs are placed before the people. 
During recent days the people of Australia have been urged to play an even greater part than hitherto in the Avar activities of this country. The lightning blow  struck  at Holland, Belgium and Luxemburg gives strength to that appeal It: is within our knowledge that the Queen of the Netherlands and her family have sought sanctuary in Great Britain, arid that the King of Norway is practically a, fugitive in hiding in his own country. The war has entered a new phase with the invasion of the three countries which I have mentioned. In the Balkans the outlook is unsettled, and danger lurks in the Mediterranean. The invasion of Holland has brought the conflict right- to bur very doors, because of the proximity to Australia of the Netherlands East Indies. No one can say what may happen in the near future. It is true that two powerful nations, with interests in the Pacific, have expressed a desire for the continuance of the  status quo  in the Pacific, but at any time, on some pretext or another, one of them may see lit to " protect " Dutch territory 'outside Europe, just as Hitler's Jinnies have invaded Holland, Belgium and Luxemburg in" order to "protect" them against: the Allies. Because of that possibility, a duty devolves upon Australia. There are some people in this country who believe that Australia can render service to the Empire only by the wholesale exodus of its man-power, but I am pleased to notice that there are men, not only in the Labour movement, who realize the danger associated with such a policy. As the result of the cutting off of supplies from Denmark, Norway and other countries, Australia will be called upon to provide in greater measure- than hitherto, foodstuffs for thu people of the British Isles. 
One of the most important activities that should engage our attention is the stimulation of the shipbuilding industry in Australia. If this country is to play its part, greater quantities of produce must be sent to the Allies as rapidly as possible. If, as is probable, the difficulties of sea transport become more acute as the Avar proceeds, and if, as appears likely, the Avar continues for a long period, the sooner this work is undertaken the sooner  will  the  vessels  be completed and ready for service. Some time may necessarily lapse in inaugurating the scheme, but that is all the more reason why a start should be made immediately. Honorable senators who yesterday saw the antiaircraft guns manufactured by Australian workmen at Maribyrnong  will  appreciate what can be done in this country. It was with a good deal of pride that I inspected those products of an Australian factory - not that I am proud that Ave have to expend money and employ artisans in the making of implements of Avar, but because when the need arose, avc were able to demonstrate our capacity to make them. In  view  of the statements which have been made in this chamber  from  time  to  time I may be pardoned if I draw attention to the fact that the establishment in which those weapons  were  manufactured was the creation of a Labour government. The work of' these factories Shows that we are playing our part in no uncertain way. Having regard to the call foi" Australia to do its share, I shall refer to -the conditions  which  prevailed at the termination of the- last meeting of the Senate. At that time I directed attention to the fact that certain honorable senators are endeavouring to belittle those on this side of the chamber by conveying to the Australian people the false idea that those associated with the great Australian Labour movement represent a disloyal section in this country.. Some have tried to make it appear that the members of that party are opposed' to the ideals for  which  the great British Commonwealth of Nations stands. I also directed attention to the repeated requests  which  have been made to honorable senators in opposition to become members of a composite ministry. Similar requests are now being made in certain quarters for the formation of a national government which, of course, would include members on this side of i he chamber. Such a suggestion is conclusive proof that impartial members of the community realize that the charge of disloyalty made against this party falls to the ground. 
It is not. Suggestions of disloyalty have-been made solely for party political purposes. This party would, while pledging itself to protect this country and all its democratic institutions, fully appreciate that whether the nation be at war or enjoying peace there are certain fundamental principles which must be stated and re-stated. This party must always put forward the views of the people whom it represents, and place before them the mission which it has to accomplish. 
I am coming to that. It is most important that we should win the war, but in doing so we should ensure that our democratic institutions and those great ideals which the Australian people and the Australian Labour movement support shall remain intact. Sometimes I have misgivings that in meeting the attacks made against us by Communists and others supporting revolutionary ideas, there is a possibility that instead of keeping our ideals clearly before us we may go too far to the right. While we may declaim against the materialism of communism we must not forget the materialism of capitalism. We must not overlook the fact that whilst in some countries communism has been the means of destroying some of those things which we hold dear, the capitalist system also has been responsible for the destruction of many cherished-'rights- and privileges.* When we appeal to the people of Australia, we must always have a policy of development and of social justice that will be a credit to this. country. I am not suggesting that Australia at present is not a credit to those who did the arduous work of its colonization. All sorts of men and women - some with rebellious tendencies - came to Australia because they were opposed to the conditions under which they were compelled to live in older countries. Many men and women who left the land of their birth because of the oppression by the ruling classes, came to Australia to work out their destiny and to give effect to those principles in which they believed. Although we have much to be thankful -for. I do not wish Australia to rest on its laurels, and allow our present democratic institutions to be overwhelmed by the great tragedy which is now confronting us. 
Exactly, but when an appeal is made for a united nation our thoughts and our actions must be directed in the way I have suggested. We must inspire the people of this country to rise to greater heights. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  appealed to the youth of this country. It is to the youth to whom we must appeal, and if we desire our democratic institutions to survive we must inspire youth to assist to maintain those conditions which we now enjoy. If we should fail to do so the drift may be in the wrong direction. 
Every nation is threatened from within by conservatives such as the honorable senator. We are threatened from within by those persons who influence governments in their own interests and who refuse to entertain new ideas. For centuries people of this class always retarded progress. They are to be found in this chamber, and they indicate their presence by their interjections. If we desire the youth of this country to preserve our democratic institutions, obviously we must direct our activities in the direction that I have suggested. What is the use of making an appeal to the youth of Australia to support the present social  system when thousands of boys do not know where to obtain employment? The fathers and. mothers of these  Young  neon le are faced with a great problem - the placing of. their sons or daughters in decent positions. After spending a great deal of money in educating their children to a standard which, they feel, is necessary  in  order to fit them for the battle of life, too many of them discover that employment is not available. In these circumstances  i3  it not likely that these young people will have bred in them - a spirit of rebellion, and will not many of thom- consider chat our present democratic system of government, has outlived its usefulness? 
A great deal has been said in this chamber and in the House of Representatives about the need for stamping out communism from our midst. But what breeds communism? What are the reasons for its existence in this country? If the peoples of older nations in which communism has flourished, or at least taken root, had not suffered want owing  to  the failure of their governments to provide them with the opportunity to live decently they would not have turned to this political creed. If, for instance,  the Czarist  regime in Russia had dealt fairly with the Russian people, there would not have  been  the bloody revolution in 1917. The same may be said of other countries in which old forms of government have had to make way  for newer systems. 
The excuse for its existence here is the unsatisfactory conditions obtaining in industry, to which I have alluded, which encourage the rising generation to search for a new system of government. Listening  to some  Government supporters, one would think that communism existed only amongst the workers, and especially the coal-miners. 
We on this side know that that is not so. We know that communism makes its presence felt in places whore it is least expected, sometimes amongst people of educational attainments. Why is that so? 
 Senator D'ein's  interjection is a reflection upon the intelligence of honorable senators in whose hands the destiny of this country has been placed. One would expect the honorable senator to understand and appreciate the responsibility attaching to the position he occupies in the life of the community, and, therefore, to treat important matters in a more serious manner. If we desire to ensure the continuity of our present democratic form of government, it is up to us to see that social conditions shall be such that democracy cannot be defeated. This is the plea I am making this afternoon, particularly to ministerial supporters who can influence the Government to put into operation the machinery to give effect to the ideals which I have outlined. Surely they will not turn a deaf ear to my appeal. Lf wc desire the youth of this country to respond to the call that has been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  we must give to them the facilities necessary to provide them with a decent livelihood. It is useless to make such an appeal to them, and at the same time deny them the opportunity to enjoy a full and happy life. Supporters of the Government have spoken often of the growth of dictatorships and ideals which are foreign to Austraiian thought. What is the use of appealing to the loyalty of the coalminers who have to go down into the bowels of the earth in order to earn a wage which, despite what may be said to the contrary, is only a miserable pittance, whilst the owners of mines are able to enjoy all the good things of life and indulge in all sorts of frivolity, such as paying £20,000 or £30,000 for a race-horse? The miners have to accept the crumbs which fall from the owners' table. These things should not be forgotten whene ver an appeal  i3  being made to the miners. If we inspire our people by just treatment, they will do what we desire them to do. 
Before we can give effect to the sentiments expressed in the Governor-General's Speech we must bring about a state of affairs in which we can appeal with confidence to the people for an effort for victory in this war, so that the democratic institutions which we value may remain. We must prove to them . that Australia is a country worth defending. We must ensure also that when this conflict is over there will arise in Australia new social conditions under -which the people will have a full supply of the necessaries of life. They must not he east 'back as they were at the end of the last war. They must not bc forced to submit to tribulations like those they suffered during the depression, when so much of what, they had struggled to obtain was taken from them. That spectre must not haunt them in the future. I hope that the Government will guide the destiny of Australia, so that all the good things which we desire for our people shall readily be made available to them. 
.- Recent events on the other side of the world have prompted me to speak in support of the motion now before the Senate. On Friday last, after eight months of comparative stagnation, the war suddenly became one of action. The Allies are at last at grips with the enemy. Confidence in the final triumph over Hitlerism must not be associated with an early and easy victory. The struggle is just beginning. Double-column headlines in our daily press announcing some minor or local success must not be taken too seriously. Often what is gained to-day is lost to-morrow. Ill-balanced optimism should bo avoided, but there is no need far pessimism. Extravagantly worded headlines create a wrong impression and magnify a small gain out. of all proportion to the stupendous task before the Allied forces. There is no rosy path to Berlin, a city which we should have entered in November, 1918, and which must be occupied if the German, people are to be convinced of the folly of nazi-ism. 
There will be reverses, as there were ' iii the Great War. History has shown that a set-back is an incentive to. the Briton to redouble his efforts. That will be so again. But a big Allied reverse in the present struggle will have more violent repercussions than any set-back in the last war. Nobody can accurately forecast how such repercussions will affect A ustralia. The situation is such that the time has passed for pin-pricking criticisms of the Government. 
The average citizen does not really know what the Government has accomplished since war was declared in September last. There may be some items on the debit side of the ledger, but there is a far greater number on the credit side. Honorable senators opposite rightly claim to be the " watch-dogs " of the country's business. So are we on this side of the chamber, but we do not bark at anything and everything. "Many of my colleagues do as I do - tell Ministers where phases of the Government's war policy need closer attention. 
Because money is plentiful for our war services, there is .a tendency to extravagance. Sometimes it is forced upon the persons concerned because of the noncooperation and selfishness of others, and because of the tendency to make profits out of this unfortunate war. I refer to the high - rents paid to wealthy landowners for housing the head-quarters of our- fighting services in Melbourne. The head-quarters staffs were forced out of their usual location at Victoria Barrack? in order to make way for the army of civilian clerks and boards created by war emergency. Accommodation is, of course, necessary for this administrative personnel. Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, is the nerve-centre of Australia's war effort. From there orders are sent directly or indirectly to every sea,, air, and land unit engaged in the defence of this Commonwealth. It was inevitable that accommodation should be found elsewhere, without delay, for the head-quarters of the Australian Imperial Force, the Second Cavalry Division, and the Third and Fourth Divisions now almost at war strength. A house of four or six rooms would be far too small for any one of those divisions, which are now housed in expensive dwellings in an expensive suburb of Melbourne. The rents are exceptionally high. A division in France usually had its head-quarters in a cluster of huts. Honorable senators may ask why we cannot do the same here; there is plenty of park land. The answer is that municipal councils are loath to give up even a corner of park land for such a wartime service. All councillors are not so unpatriotic, but others do not seem to realize that a war is in progress. The 
Government should have power to acquire such space, even if a local cricket or football club be inconvenienced. 
That would be a good place. The whole of these four head-quarters could have been placed in Fawkner Park. Lacking power to do that/ there was no alternative but to take four big houses, at whatever rent  was de*manded. It is.. not 'too late even now to remove these head-quarters to certain park lands&gt; to build inexpensive war-time huts, and-. to save the present excessive expenditure on rents. - . 
Whilst discussing governmental expenditure, I urge the Ministers concerned to take ample steps to conserve petrol. From what I can gather there is considerable overlapping in the use of the motor transport allotted to Army and Air Force units. This overlapping became so serious on the western front during the Great War that drastic action had to be taken, and a system of " pick-ups " and "  set-downs  " instituted in each corps area. A chit giving authority to use the road was issued to motor transport drivers. If it were found that the reason for taking the road was  unsatis-factory,  or contravened the orders on the subject from a higher authority, the officer who issued the chit was severely dealt with. The result was a considerable saving of petrol  and  wear and tear of vehicles and roads. I do not suggest that joy-riding, in the full sense of the term, is indulged in, but, certainly, there is need for a system of central control between our capital cities and the various country camps. The roads used by units' motor transport ought to be adequately policed by military personnel, in order to check reckless and careless driving. Far too many men are involved in fatal road accidents. The compensation paid must already have' reached a very considerable sum. 
My chief object in speaking to-day is to urge the Government, in view of the latest developments in Europe, to expedite the training of Australia's quota for the Empire air scheme. If what some of my Air Force friends of the last  Avar  tell me is true, there is need for a general shake-up all round. The Minister ' for 
Air  (Mr. Fairbairn),  a distinguished Avar pilot, ought to be able to rectify this mat'ter, and so remove from the mind of the nian in the street the impression that too much time is wasted at our air training centres. 
On the army side, much apprehension is felt by ex-servicemen, not, I am pleased to say, regarding the standard of training the Militia has reached, but because of the inadequate number being trained. The Government announces, from time to time, the strength of the Militia, plus the number of men who have passed into the reserve lists. The last estimate, I think, was 100,000  all  told. What is the good of that number? The duties of onefourth of them never take them into the actual battle zone, but are essential in maintaining, supplying, and supporting the real fighting troops. For every one casualty behind the actual fighting units, there- are 20 in the latter units. Are we building up a proportional and larger reserve of trained men for actual front-line service to make good inevitable wastage, should  Ave  ever he called upon to take the field ? At the rate  Ave  are training men the answer definitely is No ! The obvious solution- is to call up every male person up to and including the a'ge of 25 years, and not merely the 20-21- year-old personnel. Nothing short of 400,000 fit  men, either serving iu the Militia' or in the Militia reserve,  will  suffice-. Most military men in high positions1 know that the calling-up of a few thousands of men aged 20 to 21 years makes only a piece-meal contribution to our Australian  army.  T: venture to say m a:t. the great majority :of  our fit young men  will  welcome the opportunity to play their part. A second batch of the 20-21 years quota of national service personnel has recently gone into camp. These youngfellows  will  finish their four months' training and return to their civil occupations, as the first batch did-, healthier and better citizens. What is more, they  Will  in" future turn a deaf ear to ardent peace advocates who are bed-mates of Moscow-inspired, underground disrupters anxious to see the British Empire go under in this  Avar.  How disappointed must the opponents of universal military training- have been, when it  was  found how readily these young men fitted themselves into camp life and how enthusiastically they took up their duties. After the first month they were hardly distinguishable from those with longer service in the Militia. They  were certainly- high-spirited but  they..; were amenable *to.  the discipline peculiar  ' to the old " Digger ". Many of these young fellows went into camp as raw recruits, but came out with noncommissioned officer rank. For the good of the nation in these critical days, and for the benefit of our young men themselves, I hope that the Government will soon announce the extension of national service in our home defence army to include every fit young man up to the age of 25 years. We never know what is before us. It is best to be well prepared for any emergency. 
Finally, I shall refer to the rising cost of certain foodstuffs. The Prices Commission has done well since its appointment at the beginning of the war. Prices generally have been kept well in hand, and have not bounded up as they did during the last war. Many people do not understand, nor arc they told by opponents of the Government, that the prices of commodities brought from overseas will invariably rise, owing' to shipping shortages and the higher war-time freight and insurance rates, due to the risks entailed in transportation. I can usually explain that to those who complain to me about rising prices, and they are invariably satisfied with my reply; but I cannot explain to the working man, who usually has a large family, why the prices of bread, meat and dried fruits should rise when we produce wheat and the other commodities in large quantities in this country. I can point out to them, with partial justification, that the producers of these foodstuffs must live and sell their surplus overseas in order to make both mds meet, but I myself am not satisfied that there should be an increase of prices. I hope that the Prices Commission will take steps to keep down prices of such foodstuffs as are necessary for the proper nutrition of the large families of working men, who always seem to " get it in the neck " when a war is on. The sacrifice should be more evenly distributed throughout the whole of the community. 
I have listened with interest to  Senator Brand.  He usually offers candid and constructive criticism of the Government, and he has not failed to do  so on this occasion.  I have no=doubt.  that' 'the- -'Government' will take notice of his remarks. Personally I have no great enthusiasm for the discussion of the motion for the adoption of the Address.inReply to the Governor-General's Speech because I have in mind the grim reality of war, and what it means to the people of Australia. Our very existence as a free country is at stake, and any criticism that I may -offer to the Government will be given more in sorrow than in anger. Yet we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that the administrative acts of the Government should at all times be subjected to the closest scrutiny. Honorable senators often talk about the necessity to tune in with Great Britain, and it seems to me that this should be done at the present time. Personally, I have been greatly perturbed by the inertia and complacency of the present Government. For at least the last three years war clouds have appeared on the horizon, and we have feared that war would break out at any time; but the Government has been slow to take action to provide for the defence of Australia and for an adequate contribution by this country to the defence of the Empire. The Government has disregarded the warnings of its critics, particularly those of the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin),  who, two or three years ago, almost pleaded with the Government to embark upon, a vigorous policy of aircraft construction and the   training of pilots and crews for the defence of Australia and the Empire. The advice of our Leader was not only rejected, but also ridiculed, both by the Government and the press. I claim that the advice then given was very sound, and it is pleasing to know that even at this late stage the Government is making an effort to enable Australia to play its full part in the war. Had proper preparations been put in hand two or three years ago, we could have accomplished much more in this regard than stands to our credit to-day. 
Preceding governments over a long number of years might have been much more active than they were in preparing for defence. One of the reasons for the past inactivity of the -parties*  now in office was  that- defencep reparations . involve v .the . taxing &gt;of theirfriends. This is borne out by the fact that, so late as two years ago, when war was practically upon us, our total defence expenditure was only £6,000,000, and last year it was only a little over £7,000,000, whereas this year it will amount to nearly £100,000,000. Those figures do not reflect careful defence organization. However much we on this side criticized i he Government for its failure to prepare adequately for defence, our attitude was misrepresented by honorable senators opposite. Labour enjoys an admirable record so far as defence is concerned. Our navy was established by the first Labour Government to take office in this Parliament, and that action was taken in the face of bitter opposition by the political predecessors of supporters of this Government. Those gentlemen sneered at Fisher's proposal to establish an Australian Navy. Their idea of defending this country, as part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, was ro borrow money from Great Britain with which to huy a battleship and to present the battleship to Great Britain. 
Surely the honorable senator does not compare the old Labour party with the present? 
Much has been said in this debate concerning the present coal strike. So soon as the Government is confronted with really important problems, such as those which concern the wheat ' industry, for instance, instead of attempting to solve them it turns its attention to the activities of a few alleged Communists. In the past primary producers struggled for the establishment of orderly control of production, but such proposals were bitterly opposed by Nationalist governments. However, in a time of war this Government suddenly discovers that it is beyond the ' ability of individuals, or of private enterprise, to control primary production efficiently. I hope that after the war the Government will retain at least some share of the control which it has now assumed over primary production and marketing, and so continue to protect the interests of our producers. 
I am greatly perturbed at the position of the country's finances. It will be very difficult for us to borrOW overseas. This Government was incapable of visualizing the possibility of war, and the difficulties arising therefrom. It relied upon the belief that improved prices for our exportable -commodities would enable us to finance' our overseas requirements. Today, however, we are unable to secure sufficient shipping for the transport of those commodities. I can- only regret that, this Government did not have the foresight- to provide for such a position as now confronts us. The Scullin Government endeavoured- to implement a -sound policy for the" encouragement of secondary industries, by building up the home market. Dependence on overseas markets is a rotten basis on which to build the economy of our country, because it involves not only acceptance of world parity prices, which may be unpayable, but also competition with industries subsidized by governments in other countries. 
Great Britain to buy a battleship and then present it to Great Britain. The present standard of living in this country can be maintained only so long as we are able to find employment for all of our people. Our young men and women must be given economic security in order that they may be enabled to marry and have families. That is the best way in which to populate any country. However, we are not encouraging industrial development along sound lines. In this connexion I mention the cotton industry in Queensland. To-day we are importing nearly all of our requirements of cotton goods, although with a little encouragement from this Government,, such as the provision of irrigation in suitable areas, this industry could quickly be developed to a stage at which it could supply all of the lIn W cotton we need for manufacture. 
Is not that industry being encouraged? 
I shall deal briefly with some of the factors which tend to hamper the development of industry generally in this country. The Treasurer  (Mr. .Spender) is a little more radical in his views than were most of his predecessors. High interest rates constitute one of the greatest handicaps to industry at the present time, and make it almost impossible for us to compete with overseas producers. If the Government is able to limit interest rates it will be doing something that will be of very great assistance to Australia generally. 
This may not bc an appropriate time to discuss social legislation, but I believe that the Federal Parliament should long ago have instituted a system of widows' pensions. In fact, it is a blot on our good name that nothing has so far been done in this direction. A widow, with three or four children to look after, is doing a fulltime job, and it is the bounden duty of the community to provide her with an income that will enable her to bring those children up properly. 
Who wishes to deplete the manhood of the country? . 
.- There is no doubt that, since we were here last, the gravity of the international situation has greatly increased. Honorable senators have now a better grip of what they are up against, of whom we are fighting, and what we are fighting for. We know now that our liberties are at stake, and that the ideals which we have cherished for generations past, such as liberty, culture, and free thought, are in the balance - and I mean really in the balance. Honorable senators on both sides of the chamber now realize that this is so, and that it is not a time to indulge in carping criticism of the Government which is doing everything in its power to achieve that purpose towards which Australia, and the Empire as a whole, are striving. Although the Labour party now recognizes the gravity of the situation, it, unlike the Labour party in Great  Britain, is not prepared to give a full measure of co-operation. In Great, Britain, the Labour party has thrown itself freely into the national effort, realizing that its very existence is at stake. Here the Labour party is prepared only, in the words of the Leader of the Opposition.  (Senator Collings),  to give a " measure of assistance " to the Government, while remaining a separate entity. It is that measure of assistance which I propose to question. 
The Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Sheehan  claimed that, because Parliament was not kept sitting continuously, members were denied the opportunity to criticize the actions of the Government in detail, and that that was an abrogation of democracy. The fact is, however, that every member of the Opposition has exhausted his full time under the Standing Orders in criticizing the Government, and most of them have received extensions of time as well. 
 Senator Keane  said, by interjection, that the Labour party won a by-election through its criticism of the details of Government policy. That is probably true, but it could find little to criticize in the main principles of the Government's policy. The Labour party is applauding itself because it won that election by its little, tin-pot criticism of detail at a time when the Government, newly installed in office, was striving desperately to meet an extraordinary situation. 
That was one of the criticisms, and it illustrates very well the kind of thing that looms so large in the minds of members of the Opposition in this National Parliament. Because of the foolish purchase, or leasing, of a racehorse by a Minister, members of the 
Labour party were quite prepared to upset a National Government which is making every conceivable effort to preserve the security of the country. That is on a par with most of the criticism of honorable senators opposite. The Leader of the Opposition said " We have pledged ourselves to bring the war to a successful conclusion. You will never appeal to us in vain ". 
The honorable senator went on to say that he and his colleagues had never refused to vote the money which the Government sought to raise. Yet, they will not assist the Government to marshal the man-power or the cash resources of this  country  ' That is their war policy. They accuse honor-" able senators on this side of the chamber of making provocative speeches, yet for days we have heard from them nothing except a stream of abuse of not only honorable senators on this side of the chamber but also members of the Government itself, and every person whom the Government draws from the ranks of the Australian public to assist it in any particular direction. They have a feeling of the most deadly hatred of  Mr. Essington  Lewis; whenever his name is mentioned, they, see red.  Mr. Essington  Lewis is probably the best industrial organizer in Australia at the present time. He has done marvellous things in. the industrial world, in a key industry which makes possible the defence of Australia. Yet when this great organizer is asked by the Government to advise it in the matter of supplies and equipment, he is described as a profiteer whose only concern is to maintain at a high level the profits of his own company. Only last week we had an example of how matters can be twisted by honorable senators opposite.  Senator Amour  accused the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited of having overcharged, the Government in respect of a contract for the production of shells, and said that the amount overcharged had to bc paid back. The true facts are that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was informed by the Government  that it could have a contract for the production of 15,000 shells at i.271 the price at which similar shells were being made at a government establishment. The company accepted the terms offered, and finished the contract. It then discovered that the cost of production was 7s. 6d. a shell less than the contract price. It approached the Contract Board and sought to have the contract price reduced by 7s. 6d. a shell. The Contract Board said "We cannot alter the contract; if we lower the price in one instance we may be asked to raise it in another, and that would be a bad precedent". The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited immediately sent the board a cheque for approximately £6,000, representing 7s. 6d. each on 15,000 shells. Yet the facts are twisted by  Senator Amour  in order to cast a slur on the company, on the ground that it had attempted to profiteer. 
If the honorable senator knew as much as I do about the running of government establishments and private industrial undertakings - with which I have been associated for 25 years - he would realize that what occurred in this case is mot unusual. Shells of this type had not been turned out previously, and new methods had to be employed in their production. It is probable that those who are in charge of government establishments are not so well equipped in knowledge as are the experts employed by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. 
The honorable senator and his comrades, instead of giving advice to the Government, abuse  Mr. Essington  Lewis on every occasion. 
He does not run all of these factories; his services are enlisted in an advisory capacity in relation to purchases. When he was asked  to: show what he could do in his own factory, he saved the Government close on £6,000 on one particular contract. This is not an isolated instance of savings being made in private enterprise compared with government establishments. I object to honorable senators opposite levelling the accusation of .profiteering against private enterprise merely because they believe it to be a good party political draw-card. According to them, any person who makes a profit is a scoundrel. They fail to realize that out of the profits of the people come the whole of the advancement of the people and the employment with which they are provided. Profits do not remain in the pockets of those who make them, or. in banking institutions; they are sooner or later put into plant and machinery. The number of factory employees to-day, because of the national war effort, is greater than it has ever been previously in the history of Australia. 
The only place where there is no employment is on the coal-fields, and the .unemployment there is of the miners'  own making. In this time of national crisis, when we are turning out munitions for the Imperial Government, when we are producing steel of all kinds, and air-raid shelters which are sent overseas, the whole of our defensive operations are threatened by the coal-miners. Honorable senators opposite, instead of standing solidly behind : the Government, openly encourage the coalminers to throw thousands of persons out of employment and to hold up the national defence effort. If they were sincere and genuine in the statements they have made, they would have stood wholeheartedly behind the Government when trouble first threatened three months ago. They would have said to the coal-miners, "You cannot do this in a time like the present ", and they would have been listened to by the men. But they chose to sit back and not utter a word of blame against the attack by the coal-miners on the safety of the people. The reason behind the coal strike is so absurd that one wonders that honorable senators who claim to represent the people should lend it any support. The men who actually work the coal, representing 85 per cent, of the total number employed in the mines, already had a 40-hour week from bank to bank. Only 15 per cent, of the surface men, such as firemen and others, were denied it, and even they' received higher wages for fewer hours' work than the ordinary men in any other industry doing the same class of work under similar conditions. Yet the whole of the mines were thrown idle in an attempt to blackmail the Australian nation, with the result that the manufacture of munitions is being hampered, thousands of men have been thrown out of employment, and the whole of the domestic arrangements of the civil population have been upset. Not one leader in the ranks of honorable senators opposite has the pluck to tell the miners that they are wrong. 
Behind the scenes certain Labour leaders have said to the nien, "  For  God's sake, save our .political future by going back and doing some work". In the initial stage- one strong word by the leaders of the Labour party would have been sufficient to prevent the taking of the extreme step of- striking. The great body of the coal-miners are as loyal at heart as is any other section of the community. The leaders of the Labour party were not game to stand up to the opinions they" profess to hold. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  J.  B.  Hayes). - The honorable senator must withdraw that remark.  
The honorable senator must withdraw that remark, and' I shall not permit argument on the point. 
It has been claimed by honorable senators opposite that the enlistments in the Australian Imperial Force have come mostly from the homes of the workers. That statement has doubtless been repeated from many platforms. Seeing that between 94 per cent, and 95 per cent, of our population consists of workers there is a sense in which the statement may be true. 
I shall prove to the honorable senator that they have done so. 
A great outcry has been made during the coal strike against certain judges of the Arbitration Court who, it is alleged, have been unjust to the coal-miners. A couple of years ago Chief Judge Beeby was lauded to the skies because he had given some decisions favorable to the workers; now he is being consigned to hell. 
Surprising contrasts are to be observed when we compare our position in this war with our position in the last war. I have been a member of Parliament during two wars. During the last war, apart from a few pacifists and eccentric humanitarians, we were a united people; but on this occasion, when the issues are,' if possible, more vital and the risks greater than in the last war, we are not united. 
A week or two ago  Senator Darcey  said that  Mr. King  O'Malley was not a member of the Labour Government when the Commonwealth Bank Bill was introduced. 
To-day,  Senator Sheehan  cast a grave reflection on the intelligence of the electors of this country when he said that the vast majority of them did not understand the democratic system and were unacquainted with the workings of Parliament. Generally, honorable senators opposite refer in flattering terms to the intelligence of the people, and profess to be willing at any time to appeal to that intelligence, expressing the belief that an intelligent electorate would place the Labour party on the Government benches. To-day, the honorable senator, who claims to be the enlightened representative of an enlightened .people, casts a slur on the electors when he says that many of them do not know what they vote for, and do not understand our democratic system. 
One of the main features of this debate has been the promise by Opposition Bena-&lt; tors of whole-hearted support of the Government in its efforts to preserve the liberty of the people, aud their honoring of that promise by endeavouring to block the efforts of the Government. I should like to see in Australia a national ministry, as in Great Britain, not because of any superior intellect that might be infused into the Government, but because it would provide an example to the people of Australia, and show that their elected representatives were united in- a great national effort to preserve the liberty and freedom which we enjoy' as a British community. 
Like other honorable senators who have spoken, I am sorry to note that the war has taken a more serious turn. The happenings of the last few days give us food for thought. We must face the facts, and prepare to meet the responsibilities that are ahead of us in regard to the position, not only overseas, but also in Australia itself. Fortunately, we in this country are far removed from the devastation and sacrifice of human life which are taking place in Europe; but I submitthat the Government of this country accepts a grave responsibility should it deplete Australia of its manhood by sending men overseas in large numbers. We in this Parliament have a responsibility to the people of the Commonwealth. 
In his speech on the Address-in-Reply,  Senator Wilson  advocated the sending of troops overseas in large numbers. He told us, too, that France had temporarily discarded the 40-hour working week and he asked what we were going to do about it in Australia. 
When all of the unemployed of this country are provided with the means of earning their livelihood, it will he time enough to talk about extending the working hours. Only  recently the Minister for Employment in Western Australia received a deputation from ministers of religion asking that the sustenance rate of 7s. a week he increased. 
Yes. Because of its policy of providing greater social services than in any other State of the Commonwealth that Government has been penalized by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Throughout Australia thousands of workers are unemployed, and yet  Senator Wilson  urges an extension of the hours of labour. I was in England during the last war when the working week was extended, but there was no unemployment there then. 
There was no unemployment in England during the last war, because every man and woman, who otherwise would have been unemployed, was given work in the production of munitions. When all of the unemployed in this country are given work, it will be time enough for the honorable senator to move for an extension of the working hours. 
Should the defence of the nation demand an extension of the working hours, I would support an extension. I say that definitely. In such an event, the workers of this country would not be found wanting. 
I am always pre-, pared to help in a practical way, but during this debate honorable senators opposite, with only one or two exceptions, have maintained a constant barrage against the Opposition, and have endeavoured to associate it with communism, simply because ' they desire to win the next election. 

 Senator Leckie referred to the young men of this nation who had volunteered for service overseas, and went on to say that the contribution made by the wealthy people of this country was equal to that of the wage-earning class. I interjected that it was not so. However, that is a matter that could well be left alone now. I admire men who, of their own free will, offer themselves in the service of their country. It is unfortunate that  Senator Leckie  should endeavour to place class against class by suggesting that those with whom he is associated bear a much heavier proportion of taxes than any other section of the community. Perhaps tho honorable senator is not aware that 1,000 persons in Australia share £8,000,000 annually, while there are 1,500,000 whose wages do not exceed £5 weekly. Unfortunately, thousands who do not receive any wages at all have to depend on sustenance from the State in order to live. If  Senator Leckie  studies these figures, he will find who is making the greatest sacrifice. 
As suggested by  Senator Brand,  nothing can be gained by indulging in pin-pricking criticisms of the Government, and any observations which I have to make will, be of a constructive rather than a destructive character. There is no necessity for me to say I am not a Communist, and that I have no sympathies with the Communist movement. During the many years I have been associated with the Labour movement I have' taken an active part in its industrial work. Honorable senators opposite should not make statements which they know they cannot substantiate. For instance, some have said that every member of the Labour party associates with Communists. 
---Senator Dein and other honorable senators opposite have made inaccurate statements concerning communism, and of other subjects. For instance,  Senator Dein  informed the Senate that the " hands off Russia " resolution was expunged from the records of the Labour party by only two votes; but that is wrong. When the New South Wales conference carried that resolution it knew that it would not be endorsed by the federal executive which is representative of all States. The federal executive decided unanimously that the resolution should be expunged from the records of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labour party. It was the defence policy of the Australian Labour  party and not the resolution referred to by  Senator Dein  which, was carried by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions by only two. votes. 
 Senator Dein  does not know what was involved. The Labour party in Western Australia is part of the Australian Labour party, but the West Australian branch of the Australian Labour party is not affiliated with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions.  Senator Dein  also said that the secretary of the Miners Federation,  Mr. Orr,  is reported to have told the Prime Minister that he is a Communist, that he believes in displacing him and that he believes in the abolition of parliaments which govern Australia. I am opposed to Communists' principles, but I would remind honorable senators opposite that two cases involving the activities of the Friends of the Soviet Union and Communists which were brought before the High Court by the Commonwealth Government were subsequently withdrawn at the- request of the Commonwealth.  The Assistant Minister  (Senator Collett),  who represents Western Australia, knows that at the last general elections in that State the United Australia party stated on its "How to Vote " cards that the second preferences of the supporters- of that party should he given, not to the Labour candidates, but to the Communist candidates. If communism is the menace which the Government says it is, the responsibility of suppressing it rests with the Government which has under our National Security Act all the power it requires to do so. The Opposition is powerless in that respect.  Senator Wilson,  who referred at length to communism, should ask the Government to deal with the Communist members of the profession of which he is a member, and also with those who belong to the medical profession. In the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the following paragraph appeared - 
-- It ill becomes  Senator Leckie  to suggest that members of the Opposition have made no attempt to . bring about a settlement of the coal strike. I repeat what another honorable senator stated earlier in the debate that during the last three weeks many members of the Labour party remained in Canberra and took an active part in negotiations to this end. The same cannot- be said of Government supporters. As a matter of fact, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  was untiring in his efforts in*. .Canberra and elsewhere to end the dispute. The Prime . Minister"  (Mr. Menzies)  complimented the honorable gentleman upon the energy which he had displayed in the matter. 
I have been just as close to the coal-miners as has the Leader of the Senate. 
Just as I would expect. 
I believe that my leader has more chance of bringing about a settlement of the coal strike than I have; but if I thought that I could do anything I would not hesitate to offer my sendees. 
The Leader of the Senate has not seconded the efforts of the Prime Minister, who went to Kurri Kurri to address the miners, but failed in his appeal largely because while his speech was fo be broadcast to the nation, he did not want the miners' argument to be heard in that broadcast. Not one member or supporter of the Government has mentioned the fact that the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  did not attribute to the miners all of the blame for the closing of the coal-mines. He said that the owners were also at fault and certainly were not exempt from just criticism. I, and other members of the Labour party, want to see an early settlement of this dispute. Therefore, I strongly resent  Senator Leckie's  attempt to belittle the efforts of our leader. Our colleague  Senator Cameron  is also bending all his energies to end the trouble. That is why he is not in this chamber to-night. 
Communism and its alleged association with the Labour party have been the subject of a great deal of talk recently. The Labour party stands, as it has always stood, for constitutional methods for the introduction of social and political reforms. In that way it is opposed to the Communist party, which believes in revolutionary action.  Senator Dein  has admitted that there have been good Labour governments in Australia. The constitutional reforms which they effected are enduring monuments to their memory, and we may confidently expect similar achievements in the not distant future when the people decide once more to entrust the reins of office to Labour. 
It has been well said that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. This is emphasized in connexion with war-time censorship in Australia by means of which various organizations, without a vestige of Communist tendencies, have been deprived of the right  of  free speech. Many  electors in Western Australia have asked me to protest against the unfair method  of  applying censorship. None of them has association with any  of  the foreigners who are said to come to this country in order to cause disruption. I have in my hand a copy of a letter which was sent to the Acting Minister for Information  (Sir Henry Gullett)  by the general secretary of the Australian Natives Association. It reads - 
The Australian Natives Association has ever been loyal to our democratic principles and institutions, and the recent action of the Government in suppressing the right of . free expression of thought by increasing the severity of the censorship regulations is viewed by my board with deep concern. The right to free speech and free expression of thought through thepress we feel, is the main, principle underlying democracy, and any attempt to restrict this privilege makes us wonder where we are heading. Has not our Prime Minister on many occasions stated that he does not seek, however long the conflict, to restrict the right to free speech- and criticism? Is not the war itself being fought to retain this very right that is now being partly taken from us by the recent promulgation? The action taken will prevent the full presentation of views on the conduct of the war. Censorship1 shall presumably be of comment or criticism made by persons regarding the prosecution of the, war: and who shall be the judge of whethera criticism is in the best interests of the country or not? My board feels that the regulations, if permitted to continue, will make' of our democracy a laughing stock, and suggests that urgent and deep consideration be immediately given the matter with the object of restoring the rights that every British subject is fighting for. 
The following points effectively coverthe views of my board: - 
It denies one section of the Australian public (not by any means only the Communists) the right offree speech. 
It gives a departmental chief power by regulation to declare any newspaper a "Communist newspaper '". without adducing a shred of evidence in proof, and thereby to subject it to the new restrictions. 
. Under this regulation already, several newspapers, which cannot without gross exaggeration be called " Communist ", have been subjected to the restrictions. 
The subjects listed as banned for publication are not necessarily subjects which, if mentioned, would beof value to the enemy, but which may be inconvenient to the Government. 
Other newspapers which do not come under the regulations will bo allowed to publish facts and views relating to these matters. This means that public opinion is to be formed by a governmental selection of facts and views. 
As I have received many other similar complaints, I ask the Government to review its censorship regulations. The statements contained in the letter which I have just read are correct. One ofthe valued privileges for which we are fighting to-day, is the right of free speech. I agree that some censorship of publications and public statements is necessary in war-time; but I believe that the restrictions now imposed are too severe, and T. fear that this system may be maintained even when the war is ended. Unfair discrimination is shown in that some newspapers are allowed to publish articles on certain subjects, whereas other newspapers are not permitted to mention them. 
The training of aerial gunners isan important aspect of Australian defence  measures. We all believe that this country  should  be well equipped with fighting planes and I am pleased that the Government has decided to increase our air strength. It is, however, regrettable that certain weaknesses have been disclosed in the training of aerial gunners. Although eight months lave elapsed since the outbreak of the war, it was not until a few weeks ago that an aerial gunnery instructor was sent to the Pearce Aerodrome iu Western Australia. Air Force pilots must undergo rigid tests before they are passed as fit for active service. Since aeroplanes travel at speeds of 200 and '500 miles an hour, tho efficiency of aerial gunners is of particular importance to the safety of both pilots and aeroplanes. Therefore, their training should be as  comprehensive  as that of pilots. 
In order to conserve overseas exchange the Government has, since the commencement of the war, imposed severe restrictions on imports to this country. We all recognize the necessity for these drastic measures, which bring in their train a  certain  amount of unemployment. 
The  Sydney Morning Herald,  in its issue of the 23rd April, referring to the Government's gold tax proposals, made the following statement: - 
Ah amendment of the Gold Tax Act to  exempt  gold produced in low-grade mining enterprises from taxation may shortly lie introduced in the Federal Parliament. 
I hope that some such amendment will be made. Representations have been made to the Commonwealth Treasurer by the Government of Western Australia on behalf of companies operating low-grade mines in that State. Many of them are not producing to their full capacity because restrictive measures have prevented the importation of the necessary machinery to operate them profitably. The Premier of Western Australia has asked the Commonwealth Government to make available sufficient money to provide those mines with the machinery that is needed. The total cost would be about £250,000. The money was not available when war broke out, and later, because of restrictions imposed by the Imperial Government the matter of financing the installation of the machinery necessary for the development of the mines was stopped. Consequently, mines have had to reduce produc tion drastically. Serious consideration should be given by the Government to this matter, since gold will continue to play an important part in the provision of the funds required to meet our overseas commitments. N.G.M. Limited, at  Nevoria,  on the Yilgarn goldfield, has, under the management of  Mr. G.  Lovell, expended £72,000 on development, and has disclosed supplies of ore sufficient to warrant the erection of a treatment plant of a capacity of from 5,000 to 10,000 tons monthly. It was on the point of obtaining the further capital necessary for plant purposes in London, when tfe war ended negotiations. The ore resen ts of the Ora Banda United Gold Mine, at Ora. Banda are in the vicinity of 500,000 tons, valued at 4.35 dwt. a ton, indicating that a plant of the capacity of from 20,000 to 30,000 tons monthly is warranted. A large developmental expenditure of over £100,000 took place on the property, and the manager, a young Englishman, returned to London just before the war to discuss the provision of a plant. The war interrupted operations, and finance not being forthcoming, the property is now under exemption. The manager himself was recalled to his English regiment. There are a number of other mines involved in this project and the machinery necessary  with the exception of some power units can be manufactured in Australia. I do not suggest that the Government should advance £250,000 either to the Government of Western Australia or to these mining companies ; but if ' the necessary capital could be provided, arrangements could probably be made for the mining companies to pay back, say, 10 per cent, of the value of the gold won. This would not only reduce unemployment in Western Australia, but also provide new wealth. Although defence expenditure in respect of Western Australia has been authorized to the amount of £600,000, much of that money will be expended in other parts of the Commonwealth from which necessary materials are obtained. 
A statement regarding the position of the wheat industry has been made by the Leader of the Country party  (Mr. Archie Cameron),  and no doubt his remarks will cause some surprise even to  Senator Johnston. 
No doubt. The honorable senator will probably be even more aggrieved to learn that, for the money to bo advanced by the Government through the Commonwealth Bank for wheat marketing purposes, an interest charge of of 3 per cent, on the money advanced will be levied on the pool. 
The admission has been made that the Commonwealth Bank has given advances without charge. Much has been said by honorable senators opposite about inflation. On one occasion,  Senator James  McLachlan remarked that inflation was necessarily occasioned in war-time. 
If the Minister asks me a silly question, he may receive a silly answer. It will cause surprise to the wheat-growers, if not to  Senator Johnston,  to learn that the pool will be charged 3 per cent, for the money advanced to it. 
I am not concerned about that. The Commonwealth Bank undertook, at the request of the Government, to advance a sum sufficient to market the wheat, and the sum of £21,000,000 was mentioned. 
Yes. 
What interest is the Government paying on the money that the bank has already made available for defence purposes? The Minister does not like me to mention matters of that kind, but the Opposition is entitled to draw attention to them. I contend that the Opposition can do better work as a critic of the Government than by sinking its identity in a national administration. 
It would take over the reins of office with full confidence, and it would not ask for assistance from either the United Australia party or the Country party. It would adopt the policy of the New Zealand Labour party, which has not sought the assistance of its opponents in the government of that Dominion. 
Since the Leader of the Country party has become a member of the Cabinet, his views regarding the wheat industry appear to have totally changed. A merging of political thought has taken place, although we were formerly told by the Country party that this could not be accomplished. I say definitely that the responsibility of protecting the interests of the wheat-growers of this country rests upon the shoulders of the Government. The Leader of the Country party tells the farmers that it would be in their best interests to curtail wheat production, and to resort to other forms of production. If he were a true representative of the farmers, he would endeavour to evolve a plan for the benefit of the producers, instead of merely making suggestions, thereby hoping to free himself from all responsibility in the matter. 
If wheat production be as essential to the welfare of this country as the manufacture of munitions of war, why does the Government consider it necessary to restrict private firms, on whose premises defence annexes have been established, to a minimum return of 4 per cent, on their capital outlay? No plan has been evolved by t,he  Government  to ensure the stability of the wheat industry, and, as far as I can gather, no such plan will be formulated by it. 
The Labour party has a policy which, if put into effect, would prove to be in the best interests of the people generally. If the 
Government realizes the seriousness of the plight of the wheat-growers, it should submit a plan for th6 stabilization of the industry, even if a restriction of production were involved. The wheat-growers themselves have shown at their conferences, that they recognize the wisdom of such a restriction. 
I am pleased to know that consideration has been given by the Government to the establishment of wool appraisement centres at Geraldton and Albany. In view of the statement by the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  before he became a member of the Cabinet, I hope that he will take a stand in the Cabinet similar to that which lie took on the floor of this Parliament when he declared himself for a policy of decentralization. On the 22nd November last, he said- - 
All parties in this House will agree that Australia is suffering greatly from the degree of centralization which has already  taken place. I do not intend to be a consenting party- to the application during war-time of a policy, which, under the excuse of war conditions, will still further accentuate the evil of centralization in our capital cities. The honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse)  lias a perfect right to bc concerned about the future of the port of Albany, and the honorable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr. Green)  about that of Geraldton. 
I hope that the Minister will press the claims of those two ports. 
I trust that the honorable senator will not be disappointed. I should like to hear his views regarding the statement by the Minister concerning the wheat industry. The Minister said that the primary producers are satisfied, but, in my opinion, they are npt.. . He also declared that the woolgrowers have had a fair deal. But those growers do not think so. 
Most of them do not.  The following statement appeared in .a Melbourne newspaper of the 27th March last : - - 
Dissatisfaction with tlie price at which wool of the 1939-40 clip has been sold to the British  Government,  and with anomalies in wool  appraisements,  -was expressed at the . first meeting of- the Australian Wool Producers' Federation held in Melbourne to-day. The meeting declared that the price of 10.75d. (sterling) at which the 1939-40 Australian wool has been sold was inadequate to meet rapidly rising costs of production due to war conditions, and urged the necessity for a review of the prices for all future clips. It was declared that serious anomalies had occurred in connexion with the appraisement of wool, particularly in regard to early appraisements, where serious  under-valuations  were made. 

 The meeting recommended that a reexamination of such appraisements be made. It also requested that the average prices per lb. be published immediately each appraisement was completed, giving also the average appraised price for each State. The Commonwealth Government was requested to appoint a royal commission to inquire into the pro,duction costs of the wool industry. 
In view of these facts, I cannot see eye to eye with  Senator McBride.  I have shown that substantial numbers of wheatgrowers do not agree with the Minister's statement that the growers are satisfied with the present appraisement scheme. Apparently, the Minister could not resist the emoluments of office; but before he accepted office he fought the Government on these matters. Now he declares that the wheat and wool-growers have had a fair deal. 
Honorable senators on this side will always be prepared to help the Government in its prosecution of the war. However, the Government can hardly expect us to agree with it upon every detail of its proposals. Criticism will be necessary, and we shall not hesitate to voice it. I can only hope that the Government will be prepared to accept our criticism in the spirit in which it is offered. The Government .deserves censure, for instance, for bringing troops from Western Australia to Ingleburn for military training, at a. cost of £22 a head. That was sheer waste of money, because every facility exists in Western Australia for the training of recruits. It was stated that these troops were brought to Ingleburn for brigade training. If such training cannot be given in Western Australia, recruits from that State will have an opportunity to obtain it on disembarkation overseas. 
At any rate, it is the case at- present. 
Widespread' dissatisfaction has been voiced in Western Australia against the apple and pear acquisition scheme. 
Such dissatisfaction is apparent throughout the State as a whole. Traders who have taken years to build up an export trade are. now prohibited from exporting apples and pears except under licence. 
I shall do so. Here are the facts as I obtained them in an inquiry which I made as the result of the widespread dissatisfaction voiced against the scheme - 
The State Committee constituted under the apple and pear acquisition scheme made the following appointments : - 

 Mr. C. H. Merry to be supervising secretary. 

 Mr. Merry is a public accountant, who is also secretary of the Fruit Shippers Association. 
  Mr. Cansdale  as secretary.  Mr. Cansdale  is an employee of Westralian Farmers Limited, which is allied with Producers Markets and Mount Barker Co-operative. Westralian Farmers Limited is a very large co-operative concern covering all sections of commerce and ships fruit and vegetables to northwest ports, Darwin, and overseas. 

 Mr. Q. Lantzke, as assistant marketing officer. 

 Mr. Lantzke is a son of the  chairman, Mr. F.  W. Lantzke. and previously worked in bis father's business. 
A fruit assembly, committee was formed comprising the fruit shipping firms, to carry out the work of assembly in the country. The address of this committee is that of the supervising secretary,  Mr. Merry,  and the firms represented are - Paterson's Limited, Westralian Farmers Limited, George Wills and Company (Burridge and Warren), and some smaller companies. 
These firms were to be paid 1-Jd. or lid. a case for this work, and with at least 800,000 cases to be handled will receive £5,000 for their work. Export licences have also been limited to the firms mentioned, who are well represented on the committee, and also on the staff of same. 
One of the first actions of the committee was to circularize all growers giving details of how to pack, etc. Growers were informed that the central packing sheds must be used as far as possible. These are owned by Paterson's and Westralian Farmers Limited, who are well represented on the committee. 
Growers were ordered not to put their name on the case, thereby losing all their goodwill, but packing houses such as Mount Barker Co-operative and Paterson's had their name on the cases and Paterson's had the apples wrapped in special paper with their name on it.  When  challenged, it was said that the prohibition only applied to growers. 
One company, F. Emery Limited, has specialized in export of fruit and vegetables to the north-west ports and Darwin. In addition an attempt has been made to extend its operations to Singapore and Malay States, so far with success. 
The Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  'inspected this- firm's methods when in Perth during last year and complimented it on its special packing arrangements. F. Emery Limited was refused an export licence for apples and pears because it exported only 64 cases last year. This firm is only young, and the ridiculous position is that it can export oranges, grapes, vegetables and salads, but cannot send apples or pears to its clients. 
The company's rival in this trade is Paterson's Limited, which is represented on the committee. Emery recently wanted 25 cases of apples for a client in the north, and when he applied, to the committee he was supplied with apples, with Paterson's label on the case and name on the papa on each apple. Surely  a.  good way of advertising to a rival's client! If th, apples  are  the property of the Commonwealth, why should this company bo allowed to show ite name at all ? 
Licences have been issued to five auctioneers and four private treaty merchants operating in the metropolitan markets. Before considering the applications the committee demanded detailed information about each applicant's business, number of cases sold for previous year, prices, etc. Applicants felt that Unnecessary details were asked for, especially when three of the members of the  committee were engaged actively in the markets in opposition to them. This information could be used to the benefit of those licensees sitting on the committee. 
Originally it was laid down by the committee that only merchants handling 10,000 cases or more would be considered. One merchant, a returned soldier with eight children, was refused, and only when the Returned Soldiers'- League made inquiries did he receive consideration. But this man has been severely handicapped by the distribution of the fruit by the committee and only received single lots except on rare occasions. He cannot obtain a line that is 10/20 cases., from the same grower and the same variety, size and grade. He has been forced to purchase his supplies from another licensee on thi3 account. 
In the licence, which has to be read to be believed, there is a clause which stifles all criticism of the committee, its officers and its actions. If any licensee says anything derogatory or does not at all times assist the committee to the utmost of his ability, his licence can be withdrawn without advancing any reason whatsoever. 
I got it from inquiries I made as the result of dissatisfaction expressed at the metropolitan markets. 
I admit that some sections of the industry are satisfied with the scheme. However, many exporters are dissatisfied with it. This dissatisfaction is not peculiar to the State of Western Australia, but exists also in Tasmania and ."New South Wales. The facts which I have just read are not based merely on hearsay. I again ask the Government to investigate the causes of this dissatisfaction. I hope the Minister will conduct an investigation into thi3 matter. Only one representative of the growers,  Mr. Parke,  has been appointed by the Commonwealth Government to this committee. It is unfair to those men who have built up an export trade that they should be prevented from exporting those varieties for which there is a demand. 
.1 have been in Canberra since the opening of Parliament, but I investigated the position before I came here, and it then was as I have stated. The Government has made many appointments in Western Australia recently, but all of the persons appointed have been of the same political faith as the Government itself. For instance, a mau who was just returned to the Legislative Council in Western Australia, where he draws a parliamentary allowance of .600 a year, has been appointed to the Immigration Staff with the rank of colonel. He is also a practising barrister. 
I am not saying anything against him personally; I mentioned him only to emphasize the fact, that other men, who served their country in the last war and who possess excellent qualifications, have been passed over .in the making of appointments, although the professed policy of this Government is preference to returned soldiers.  Mr. W.  J. Williams, who was formerly superintendent of the Sydney markets, has been appointed in charge of the naval subvictualling yard in Sydney. The position  was  not  advertised, and no applications were called. There is in Perth a man, an ex-lieutenant-commander in the Navy, who has had experience in this class of work, but he was given no chance to apply for the position which he wa? eminently qualified to fill. In all of  these  matters, Western Australia seems consistently to be overlooked. When a call  was  made for technicians, not one was selected from Western Australia. When applications were called for air force trainees, ,-no address: :»* given in Perth.,to which' applications  could  be pent. They" had all to be sent to Adelaide. 
SenatorFRASER. - It was not corrected until after the date upon which applications closed. I trust that the Government will pay some heed to the matters I have mentioned, and particularly to my request that wool appraisement centres he established at Albany and Geraldton. 
At the outset of my speech I would like to commend those responsible for the formation of the Coalition Government, representing members of the United Australia party and the Country party, that has been formed during the time that Parliament has been in recess. It is gratifying to note that the Prime Minister is now assured of a majority in both Houses of Parliament to assist in providing the maximum efficiency in Australia's Avar effort. The addition of Country' party members to the Cabinet will also give direct representation of the country interests affecting so many of the population of Australia. It is now sometime since the Governor-General delivered his Speech at the opening of this Parliament, and many changes have taken place since then. The greater part of the Speech dealt with matters arising out of the war, and in the interval since that Speech was delivered we, in common with the rest of the civilized world, have been astounded again and again at the ruthless audacity ofHerr Hitler and his Government. When we listened to  His  Excellency's Speech, Denmark and Norway had been invaded, but now Holland and Belgium are fighting for their existence against German aggression, and already thousands of casualties have occurred. The difference between ourselves and Germany lies largely in this : Germany has accepted without reservation the doctrine that might is right. By a series of lightning strokes Germany has overcome one small nation after another by sheer weight of numbers and superiority of equipment. Great Britain and its Allies are also mighty, and they have right on their side as well. They are using their power in defence of small nations, and for the preservation of the liberties of weaker peoples. They. have set themselves up as a barrier between the atrocities of Hitlerism and the rest of Europe. They are fighting now in defence of their democratic principles, for the freedom of the individual, freedom of speech, and the freedom of the press. Individual rights were abolished in Germany a long time ago. Even the rights of the family have been invaded, and parents no longer enjoy the power to educate and control their children as they think fit, and to choose their careers for them. This right has been assumed by the State, and family life, as we know it, has almost ceased to exist. The Empire and its allies, though under an initial disadvantage, are striving heroically to check the spread of these evil doctrines of nazi-ism. 
Members of the Opposition have said that the Government is very dilatory in its handling of Australia's war effort. Ten years ago the. whole of the defence, system of this country was broken down. 
SenatorKeane. - Why ? 
-I ask the honorable senator that question. The Scullin administration was responsible. I do not say that Australia was singular in that respect. At that time the great nations' of the world were suffering from the' malady known as war-sickness, and that will probably occur again at the termination of the present outbreak. The people naturally get tired of war effort. Wo were living in an atmosphere of false security. Military training was suspended, troops were disbanded, and war vessels were sunk, while all the time our present enemy was secretly arming. Prior to that our navy was fully manned, our air force - such as it was - was in good condition, and our military training was equal to that of any other country. When the need for preparedness again became apparent,it was not an easy matter to get back the men who formed the basis of that training, and re-erect the whole of the fabric that had been destroyed. As  Senator Keane  is well aware, we are an entirely democratic community. Honorable senators are elected to represent the views of all sections in each of the States. Nine years ago it was not an easy matter to convince the people of the necessity for making an immediate start to build up a huge defence force. Until the last two years, on account of the isolation of Australia, it lias been very difficult to make the people realize the apprehension and fear of attack felt by the people of Europe. Even now a large number of people in this country do not realize the gravity of the position in which Australia stands in consequence of the recent massed attacks in Belgium and Holland. Understanding of the realities of the situation has to be developed in the public mind. In that regard, the Government has received no assistance from our honorable friends opposite. In the years that have gone, general elections have been fought on a moderate war policy, and during the whole of that period the Government has received no assistance from honorable senators opposite in its efforts to establish a strong defence force. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives missed an excellent opportunity when he criticized the defence policy of the late Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  upon the return of that gentleman from Great Britain, after having consulted the British defence authorities. Had the Leader of the Opposition agreed at that time to assist in the development of a strong defence force, instead of criticizing the Prime Minister of the day and leading tho people to believe that there was no necessity for alarmist propaganda, he would have had a good chance of obtaining control of the treasury bench. If honorable senators are frank they will admit that the Government has done a good job in respect of defence. ' When what the Government has done during the last, two years is quietly studied, no criticism can be levelled at it. At the end of the last war, the only ammunition" made in Australia was 303, and very little of that was produced. The Australian troops in Prance were supplied with Canadian ammunition and rifles. At the present time not only our own troops, but also those of Great Britain and New Zealand, as well as the Singapore base, are supplied with small arms ammunition, that is made in this country. 
 It was the Labour party which originally established the small arms ammunition works. 
The Government has dealt in a very effective way with our surplus raw materials. Almost immediately after the outbreak of war Cabinet took this matter in hand, and within a little while had completed deals that stand out as among the most successful that we have known in this country, lt was eighteen months after the outbreak of the last war before anything effective had been done to dispose of our surplus primary products, whereas negotiations were in hand only three weeks after the declaration of this war. In a very little while much of the ground work had been covered, and several disposal projects had been practically completed. Our wool had been sold to the British Government and appraisements were actually being made within about three weeks. During the .recent parliamentary- recess I travelled through a number of woolgrowing districts in Queensland, and I found that the majority of the woolgrowers were satisfied with the prices they were getting for their wool. Whilst I do not deny that some growers were discontented, I could produce hundreds of letters from other wool-growers indicating that they are perfectly satisfied with the position. Whereas they received an average of only- 10£d. per lb. for their wool last year, they will receive an average of 13$d. per lb. this year. If honorable senators who represent Western Autralia had interviewed the woolgrowers of that State and put the position to them frankly, as 1 have done to many wool-growers in Queensland, they would have been well repaid for their  Work.  The wool-growers of Australia will not only receive something like "Id. per lb. above their valuation, but ultimately they will also receive the 10 per cent, that is being retained and is earning interest. 
In any case honorable senators should look at the alternative to the scheme. Had the British Government not purchased our wool it would have been left on our:.hands until we could effect sales overseas and arrange the necessary shipping. We must all realize that the shipping problem itself would have been extremely difficult. Under the Government's scheme all a. grower has to do is to convey his wool to the nearest appraisement centre. I shall not discuss at the moment whether there should, or should not, be additional appraisement centres, except to observe that I agree with  Senator Eraser  that in large States like Western Australia and Queensland, additional appraisement centres should be established by the Central Wool Committee. In Queensland there is one appraisement centre only, situated at Brisbane, in the south-eastern corner of the State. 
The . large wool-growing centre of northern Queensland has to send wool to the sea-board ports and ship it to Brisbane, involving in many cases 1,000 miles of sea freight. Appraisement centres could be granted with advantage to both central and northern Queensland. After  :i  appraisement  wool from the centres mentioned could be shipped directly overseas, thereby making a saving in the handling of the wool. I think it quite likely that in the future there may be fewer appraisement centres in some States. My main point at the moment is that under the existing scheme the wool-grower receives his cheque, as a rule, about four weeks after his wool is appraised, and he is then finished with the whole matter. He does not have to bother about the destination of the wool. Even if the ship carrying it should be sunk at sea he is not adversely affected, for that is a matter that concerns the British Government. Moreover, the wool-growers will be entitled, after the war, to 50 per cent, of any profits on resale to other than Allied interests. 
Article will be brought into the reckoning. Some ships carrying wool, for which the growers had already been paid, have been sunk, but such losses are borne by the British Government and are not offset' against the profit on resales. On the whole, I consider that the woolgrowers are being well treated. They are selling their wool at quite a reasonable price. 
The wheat-growers are in a more difficult position, mainly because wheat is not in so much demand as wool. Shipping is an important factor here also. If it is possible to obtain wheat from some muchnearer source than Australia, time and shipping being vital factors, the British Government would be fully entitled to take advantage of the nearest source of supply. Time is of the essence of the contract with us as it is with Germany.  If  we are to win the war we must consider the strategical movement of war supplies as well as of troops. Our wool is urgently needed overseas, whereas our wheat is not. The fact should not be overlooked that within the last few years the wheat-growers of Australia have received a great deal of assistance from the Commonwealth Government. Whilst I sympathize with the wheat-growers of Western Australia, I must direct attention 'to the fact that our first job is to win the war. That is vital to us, just as it is to Great Britain. Obviously, if Great Britain be defeated we shall be defeated. In that event we shall lose not only our wheat but also the land upon which it is grown.. It is, therefore, surely our first duty to concentrate upon the job of winning the war. After we have done that we can turn our attention to devising ways and means to enable the wheat-growers to get a better living from their farms. 
I wish now to discuss for a few moments the important subject of interest rates. Those who wish to be fair to the Government must admit that in this respect it has done well and deserves commendation. Interest rates have undoubtedly been kept at a reasonably low figure. I do not remember what, the position was eight months after the outbreak of the last war. I am given to understand that interest rates at that time were very high. When I returned to Australia in 1920, after my service overseas, I found that interest rates were higher still. The  Monthly Review of Business Statistics  for March, 1940, issued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, shows that in 1928-29 the interest rates on fixed deposits varied from 4 per cent, for "three months to 4$ per cent for twelve months, and 5 per cent, for 24 months. In March, 194)0, the rates varied from 1.75 per cent, for three months to 2.5 per cent, for twelve months, and 2.75 per cent, for 24 months. The interest rate for deposits with the Commonwealth Savings  Bank  was 3.9 per cent, in .1928-29 and 2 per  cent, in March, 1940. The yield on Australian consolidated bonds of all issues was 5.35 per cent, in 1928-29, and in March, 1940,' it was 3.52 per cent. In March, 1940, the yield for 1941, 4 per cent, issues, was 3.13 per cent.; for 1944 and 1947, 4 per cent, issues, it was 3.32 per cent. ; and for 1950 to 1961, 4 per cent, issues, it was 3.60 per cent. The figures relating to rates of interest on first mortgages for New South Wales are also very informative. In February, 1940, 17 per  i-ent.  of such mortgages were at 4J per cent, or under, 31 per cent, were at over 4-i per cent, and up to 5 per cent.,  39  per cent, were at more than 5 per cent, a nd up to 6 per cent., and only 10 per cent, were at more than 6 per cent, and up to 7 per cent. In November, 193S, the corresponding percentages were 22 per cent., 40 per cent., 30 per cent., and 5 per cent. Those figures indicate clearly that the Government has the financial situation well in hand. There has been no disorganization of the money market or of stock exchange operations. 
A good deal has been said about the Communists in our midst, and of the danger of sabotage. Members of the Opposition have endeavoured to show that the Communists are the friends of the parties supporting the Government, but the voting at recent elections shows that the Communist vote has not been cast in favour of non-Labour candidates. Probably, the electorate containing the most Communists in Queensland is the Herbert Division. At the 1937 election, there were four candidates for that electorate -  Mr.. H.  G. Beck, a Social Credit candidate;  Mr. G.  W. Martens, the present member, who was the nominee of the Australian Labour party;  Mr. F.  W. Paterson, the Communist candidate; and  Mr. J.  L. Wilkie, who was nominated by the Country party. The Social Credit candidate polled 3,622 primary votes, which were allocated as follows: to  Mr. Martens,  2,375; to  Mr.  Paterson, 421 ; and to  Mr. Wilkie,  826.  Mr. Martens  received 25,766 primary votes,  Mr. Paterson  12,523, and  Mr. Wilkie  17,252. The Communist candidate,  Mr. Paterson,  was the next to  be  eliminated. Of his 12,944 primary  arid  secondary votes, 11,122 went to  Mr.  Martens and only 1,822 to  Mr. Wilkie. 
 We meet in circumstances in which the war situation, particularly since the invasion of the Low Countries by the Germans, overshadows everything else. If the hour were earlier, I might commend the Government on its active prosecution of the war - the raising and training of men, the equipping of the troops, the manufacture of munitions and aeroplanes, and its preparations generally - but I content myself with saying that I stand behind the Government in its prosecution of the war, and that any more active steps which it decides to take will Iia ve my full support. Consequently, I approve of the main proposals outlined in the Governor-General's Speech, insofar as they affect Australia's participation in the- war. Honorable senators will recall, that at the outbreak of war, the Australian Country party gave to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  :an assurance of its full support in the conduct of Australia's war effort. That- promise has been honoured fully; between -September and. Christmas of last year, the Country party assisted the Government in respect of all of its main proposals. Indeed, it was responsible for keeping the Government in power. Many amendments desired by members of the Country party have been accepted by the Government. It can truthfully be said that its promise of support of the Government's war effort has been fully honoured by the Country party. Since December, the circumstances have changed, for the Country party has accepted the invitation of the Prime Minister to join in forming a composite government. It did so without any bargaining. 
 But Country party Ministers receive extra remuneration. 
Bournemouth, on a card vote of the Labour movement of Great Britain, decided by 2,213,000 to 170,000 votes to approve of the action of the British Parliamentary Labour party in joining the National Government. The movement knows that by giving not only its manhood to fight, but also its parliamentary leaders to a national government it gives of its best to the national cause. I am not here to condemn any one for expressing his own beliefs, but 1 do commend that example to the Leader of the Labour party  (Mr. Curtin),  to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  and to the non-parliamentary leaders of the Labour movement of Australia. 1 believe that if those leaders took similar action the overwhelming approval of the rank and file of the Labour movement recorded at Bournemouth would be repeated, in Australia. It was because of the war that the Australian Country party joined the Government without bargaining of any kind. 
Opposition Senators. - Oh I 
Without une word of bargaining. An offer of possibly less important portfolios than we held in the Lyons Ministry was made by the Prime Minister (Mr.' Menzies), and accepted by the Leader of the Country party  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  without bargaining of any kind. But I hope - I think that members of the Country party are entitled to hope - that the Leader of the Country party received some satisfactory assurances of improved policy towards the primary industries of Australia. Its representation in Cabinet is less than the Country party is numerically entitled to. It is also less than it had in the previous composite government. I mention that only in reply to the interjections, and because I admire the fact that the leaders of both sides decided, in the interests of the-nation, without any bargaining at all, on the coalition. 
The; ' honorable senator would think that but probably he is the only member of his party who does. The right, honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. 
Menzies), or whoever is Prime Minister during the war, is entitled to a parliamentary majority in both Houses at a time when unpleasant and un* popular things will have to be done in the national interest. The Government is certainly strengthened in its war activities by the presence among its members of the " Fighting " Cameron and other Country party Ministers. But I do not want the Government to think that, because we are supporting it -entirely on the war issue, we are in a cleft stick, and are not entitled to voice the disabilities of that section of the community upon whom tho prosperity of the nation depends, the primary producers. It is our duty to speak for them. The prosperity of the nation depends more on the primary producers during war-time than at any other time, because agricultural production is required for clothing and feeding the Allies, and the gold industry for finding money for the support of not only the Australian nation but also sister dominions and the Old Country itself. The need of Great Britain for primary products is intensified to-day when millions have been withdrawn from industry and put into the fighting ranks. Apart from the overwhelming issue of the war, the decision of the Country party to enter the Government was not greeted with any great enthusiasm by Country party supporters in Western Australia and the eastern States. It is not too much to say that the primary producers throughout Australia, but particularly and emphatically in Western  Australia,  were in a state of little less than open revolt against the Commonwealth Government at the end of last year and the early part of this year. 
Because of the way in which their products were handled. There were the best of intentions, but the Government failed to protect adequately the interests of producers of wheat and wool in its acquisition of those products. Resentment flamed. The Leader of the Country party had experience of... this in Western Australia.' I- motored him around and spoke at meetings with him throughout important wheat and wool districts in that State. There were hostile receptions and votes of no-confidence, particularly at the earlier meetings, but, after our explanations had been given the position improved a little. Further improvement will depend entirely on actions taken by this Government and the boards and departments controlled by the Minister for Commerce. 
Action by the Labour party. 
Does the honorable senator consider that the farmers are getting a fair price for wool? 
Then the  honorable  gentleman is in conflict with the Leader of his party. 
Wheat-growing, more than any other primary industry, has borne the burden of the tariff. In many parts of Australia, growers have had a succession of indifferent or bad seasons. In Western Australia, with which" I. am best acquainted, many hundreds of wheat farms have been abandoned during the last few years. I am sorry to say that farmers in relatively good districts are still leaving their properties. The position is most serious, and there is a responsibility on the Commonwealth Government to provide legislative assistance to the wheatindustry, as it has assisted other Australian, industries of far less economic value, important' though they may be. 
I was pleased when the Leader of the Federal Country party  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  accepted the position of Minister for Commerce in the reconstituted Commonwealth Government; but I warn him and the Government that the success or failure of the Coalition Ministry will bo judged largely by the measure of financial assistance given to the primary industries of Western Australia and of the Commonwealth. The development of that large State is a national responsibility. We do not want to see nearly all of the population of Australia on the eastern side of the continent, while the western portion is denied opportunities to establish secondary industries. Western Australia, being far from the Seat of Government, is unknown to many members of the Commonwealth Parliament, and has never even been visited by many members of this Parliament, including some Commonwealth Ministers. I make my appeal on behalf of Western Australian wheat-growers on the grounds of national expediency, and I repeat that the Government can acquire the wheat crop only on just terms. A just price is, at the very least, the cost of production, which was fixed by the royal commission in 1.935 at 3s. 10 1/2d.  a bushel at sidings. That price was modified slightly in later reports for those districts where there is a * big local market for by-products. Unfortunately, Western Australia has only a small population in" towns, so the disposal of by-products does not mean a great deal to the industry in that State. The Government should be bold and do a fair thing by accepting the recommendation of the commission which, five years ago, recommended a price of 3s.  10 1/2d.  at sidings. I shall not quibble about an extra lid., but I would make the price 4s. a bushel at sidings, and thus bring some measure of prosperity to wheatgrowing districts which, to-day, are being abandoned. Hundreds of young men have left their homes. I know of -areas in Western Australia where there used to be as many as six cricket teams; but last year, even before the war had started, it was not possible to arrange a cricket match because the young men had left the poverty-stricken wheal lands for the gold-fields and the cities, where there are better chances of employment and better industrial conditions. The Government must do something to bring prosperity and reasonable living and working conditions to the wheatfarmers and their employees. If it fails to do so, the Country party cannot remain an integral part of it. 
But the price is lower than it was in 1935. 
The argument that I have, advanced with regard, to the obligation that rests on this Government to pay a just price for wheal, which is compulsorily acquired applies also to wool. I admit that a greater price for wool has been obtained than that received in tho preceding season, but the fact remains that the price in that season was one of the lowest recorded for the last 25 years. 
The graziers' organizations said they were satisfied  with  the price. 
The price was fixed after consultation with the growers' representatives. 
President- -Hon J. M. Balfour. M.L.C. (Wheat and Wool-growers .Association of Victoria). 
Secretary -  Mr. F.  B. Hitching (Primary Producers' Association of Western Australia). 
Victoria - Messrs. Marshman, Cullen, Chanter and Noyes. 
Nev . South Wales -  -Messrs.  H.  Henley,  M.L.A.. mid B. Df. Cole. 
Queensland - Messrs. ti. K. Humphries' and K. J. McDonough. 
Western Australia - Professor Cr. Irving and  Mr. F.  Fi. Hitchins. 
South Australia - Messrs. Stott, Maycock and Vowles. 
Apologies were received- from  Mr. Powell  (Wheat and Wool-growers Union of Western Australia), with authorization for  Mr. Cullen  to act as proxy. An apology was tendered on behalf of  Mr. E.  P. Beresford (Queensland) for unavoidable absence. 
At that meeting the great majority of the wool-growers in each State was represented. 
No. 
As far as Western Australia is concerned, I am sure that the Primary Producers' Association and the Wheat and Wool-growers' Union in that State represent the majority of the growers. The decision of the meeting was as follows : - 
This meeting is definitely of the opinion that the price, 10.75d. (sterling) at which the 1939-40 Australian wool has been sold to 'the United Kingdom is inadequate to meet the needs of the industry at the present time, and urges the necessity for a review of the prices for all future clips to ensure a reasonable margin of profit to the producers, after taking into account the rapidly increasing costs of production due to war conditions. lt will be seen that the small growers, through their federation, are entirely dissatisfied with the price. 
That report related to Queensland, where the conditions are different from those obtaining in the southern parts of Australia. 
The report of the Wool Inquiry Committee which sat in 1932 showed the average cost of production  to be  14d. per lb. This included the costs of the great stations conducted on leasehold tenures in Queensland and the north-western parts of Western Australia, where costs are much lower than in the southern districts of Australia. Considerable increases of production costs have occurred since that time, and further increases are inevitable. About three weeks ago the Assistant Minister  ("Senator McBride)  gave me a list of the  average prices at which wool had been sold from- about 1914 to the present time, and these prices range, in the majority of cases, from 15d. up to, I think, over 2s. per lb. 
The Minister for Commerce and  Senator McBride  are entirely wrong in saying that the majority of the wool-growers of Australia are satisfied with the present price. The Minister for 'Commerce and I went for a week's tour in WesternAustralia, and we did not' meet one grower who was satisfied. We visited Katanning, the main centre where the beautiful' blue wool is produced, and, after we had addressed a meeting of settlers there, a vote of want of confidence in the Federal Country party was carried, owing to the price of wool and the general administration of wool 'affairs by the Menzies Government being regarded as entirely, unsatisfactory. %. said to those, people, "You ought to have 15d. (sterling) per lb. for your wool,' as you had after the last "war ". The Assistant Minister may laugh; but no justification exists for. asking wool producers in the farming districts of Australia to accept less than a fair price for their wool, which I submit is ls. 3d. sterling per lb. 
Wool is urgently needed by Great Britain and  the Allies, for this year, at any rate, the Government has compulsorily acquired the wool, and, therefore, upon it devolves the responsibility of paying to the producer a fair price. The Government has made a very bad bargain. 
That is so; but we must remember that, owing to the war, costs of production have increased considerably. The small wool-grower in Western Australia should be paid a price equivalent to that which he received in tho past. I estimate a fair price to be ls. 3d. (sterling) per lb., which is approximately ls. 7d. (Australian). The small wool-growers are- dissatisfied with the present price. I have not met one of them who agrees with the opinion, expressed by the Minister that the majority of the growers are satisfied with the present price. The Government has compulsorily acquired the wool,., and, therefore, it should pay a just price. for it. If the Government wishes to act generously towards Great Britain in respect of the sale of our primary products, I agree with its motives ; but I. say it should be generous at the expense of the community as a whole, and not merely at the expense of wool or wheat-growers, who are at present embarrassed financially. Some time ago the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)-  suggested that we should make a gift of 1,000,000 bushels of wheat to Great Britain. If the Government- wishesto be generous let it. make such a gift, but let it first pay to the Australian grower a- fair price for his product, .and not be generous at someone else's expense. 
Grave dissatisfaction has also been caused among wool-growers because of the refusal of the Government to' establish appraisement centres at Albany and Geraldton. Although.- sheep are widely distributed in the coastal areas- of Western Australia, and despite the length of the coast line of that State, only one appraisement centre has been provided in Western Australia. This is in marked contrast to the treatment meted out in this respect to the eastern States. In Victoria, for instance, appraisement centres have been established at Geelong, Melbourne and Ballarat. I cannot understand why a centre has been established at Ballarat where the wool must now be unloaded, although eventually it must be despatched to the sea-board. These three centres in, Victoria are within 40 or 50 miles of one another. Yet in the large State of Western Australia only one appraisement centre has been established. During the last war the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes),  when he was Prime Minister, immediately consented to a request that appraisement centres be established at Albany and Geraldton. Immediately the request was. made  Mr. Hughes  ordered that centres be set up in those places. However, a deputation consisting of all of the 
Western Australian representatives in this Parliament, as well as representatives from other States, has unsuccessfully made a similar request to, not only this Government, hut also its predecessor. Albany has a wonderful deep-water harbour and is on the direct shipping route from the eastern States. Geraldton also has an unanswerable claim. Yet our requests have produced nothing but sympathy, but sympathy without action is like mustard without beef. It seems that the present Government is lacking in backbone in this matter. . In Queensland, with its long coastline, only one appraisement centre has been established. The Government refuses to set up a centre at Townsville, Rockhampton or Bowen. I cannot understand how any Minister with any knowledge of the geography of Australia can say that one appraisement centre is sufficient for Western Australia and Queensland, and, at the same time, agree that Victoria needs three centres, one of which is inland. Apparently the Government has not sufficient backbone ; otherwise it would' do the fair and proper thing without delay and grant our request for the establishment of appraisement centres at the places I have indicated. 
That is so. Albany was an appraisement centre during the last war. To-day that town has been severely hit by the refusal of the Government to re-establish a centre there. Shipping services to that port have been reduced, and warehouses and storage space which would be available for the handling of wool at both Albany and Geraldton are now empty. At the same time, I am told, much of the wool received at the one existing centre is being stored in the open. An unanswerable case has been made out for the establishment of appraisement centres at these places to not only the present Minister for Commerce, but also his predecessor and tho Prime Minister. Every one, apparently,' agrees that the request should be granted, but nothing has been done. 
I wish now to refer to the constitution of the Central Wool Committee. At a meeting last March the Australian Wool Producers Federation passed the following resolution : - 
This meeting objects to the constitution of the bodies set up to handle wool under the National Security legislation insofar as it does not provide for majority grower representation on the Central Wool Committee mid. all State wool committees in accordance with the policy unanimously adopted at the British Empire Producers Conference, and by the Australian Wool Producers Federation, and request the Federal Government to make immediate provision in accordance with this policy. 
These bodies have not been constituted in accordance with the- policies of both the Western Australian and Australian Country party movements. The request embodied in the resolution was placed before the Minister at several meetings in Western Australia. We asked that an additional member should be appointed as a representative of the small woolgrowers of Western Australia. On every occasion the Minister replied that he was in favour of majority grower-control on all commodity boards and committees. He mentioned certain boards which he had appointed when he was previously Assistant Minister for Commerce in connexion with which he had applied this principle. The Minister has now held his office for some weeks, and this request has been placed before him time and again by representatives of Western Australia in this Parliament. There has been a Cabinet meeting in Western Australia, and Ministers have been accorded welcomes. I hope that there will be more meetings there. Ministers have said that they were pleased to visit Western Australia to see its disabilities for themselves, and that there ought to be a Western Australian on every one of these marketing boards, because of the peculiar conditions prevailing in Western Australia, and because of its isolation. In spite of this., however, our requests for the appointment of a Western Australian to the Central Wool Committee have been rejected. 
We ' desire a revision of the earlier wool appraisements, particularly the first ' and second. Glaring injustices were committed in the first assessment and, to some degree, in the second, and some action should be taken to recompense those growers who received 2d. and 3d. per lb. less for their wool than they would have obtained had their wool been  appraised  later. 
We further desire that the Tariff Board should be asked to inquire into the costs of producing wool. Some time ago, the committee which inquired into this matter stated that it cost 14d. per lb. to produce wool throughout Australia. Yet the Government has sold the last clip at less than that price, despite increased cost of production. The fact that such widely divergent opinions can be put forward by different authorities shows the need for an impartial inquiry by a responsible body before the price is fixed for next year's clip. The whole subject should be inquired into by a competent tribunal, and I know of no more competent tribunal than the Australian Tariff  Board.  It would probably recommend a price that would give the small grower a fair return for his labour and. the capital lie has invested. The Australian. Wool Producers' Federation asks, and 1 support the request, that the Tariff Board should inquire into the costs of producing wool, and that no sales be made of next year's clip to the Government of Great Britain except at a price that will give a fair return to the producer say, ls. 3d. per lb. sterling or ls. 7d. per lb. in Australian currency. 
The Government proposes to place a heavy burden of taxation on the country. I believe that Australians in all walks of life are prepared to make the sacrifices demanded of them by the war. The Government, however, should expend wisely the huge revenues, which are being raised by taxation and by loan for the prosecution of its war effort. All expenditure should be carefully scrutinized, and waste should be eliminated. In this connexion, we do not wish a recurrence of the waste involved in bringing soldiers from Western Australia to the eastern States for training. There is an uneasy feeling that defence expenditure is being confined almost exclusively to the eastern States. We have asked that munitions be manufactured at the Midlands Junction work- shops and elsewhere in Western Australia, but that has not been done. We are now told that no more private soldiers will be brought to the east, but that recruits for technical units will have to come to the eastern States for training. Let us have a change in this regard. Let us try to develop an Australian sentiment. If it is necessary to bring all these men to one point for training, let them, for a time at any rate, be all brought to Western Australia. This would have the advantage, also, that the men from the east would be some distance on their way to their destination. 
I urge the Government to repeal - not merely to amend or alters - the tax on gold production. At present half of the excess price of gold over and above £9 per oz. is taken by the Government as a tax. The price now is £10 13s. 6d., so that the tax amounts to 16s.  7 1/2d.  per oz., irrespective of whether the mine is making a profit or not. A similar tax was imposed iu South Africa, but it was discovered there to be a foolish mistake, and the incidence of the tax has now been altered so as to give relief to low-grade shows. The Australian Treasury supports the tax in its present form because it brings in four or five times as much as would a tax on profits, the same kind of tax as is imposed on all other Australian industries. The gold tax has to be paid whether a mine is working at a profit  ot  not, and certain big mining companies working on low-grade ores are working at a loss. So serious is their plight that they are likely to suspend production. 
Wiluna is one, and Mount Magnet is another. 
No, it is of much lower grade, about 2.7 dwt. A great deal of gold has been produced at Wiluna, thanks to the enterprise of British investors, who expended £1,000,000 on equipment and developmental work. The company also received a Government loan, which was repaid in full without any loss to the lender. Because of unfavourable developments at depth, which no one could have foreseen, the British investors in this company will not get. their money back. Though the mine is a losing proposition, the company  will  have  to  pay £50,000 this year to the Federal Government in this -unjust tax. This money, expended on exploratory work, might have revealed fresh ore bodies, the discovery of which would give the mine a new lease of life. At the 2,000 feet level there are ore bodies assaying 2.7 dwt. a ton, which could and would be worked if the tax were repealed. The State Government has spent several hundred thousands of pounds in the construction of a railway to Wiluna, which carries a population of about 7,000 persons, who are dependent on one mine. The monstrous injustice of taxing this community out of' existence should be realized even in Canberra. The Commonwealth Parliament is composed largely of men who, having been elected by populous centres, naturally know a great deal about the eastern States, with a large concentration of the population, and the expenditure of money, principally in Sydney and Melbourne. Unfortunately, a good deal of the administration is in charge of men who know nothing about primary industries or the outlying parts of Australia. That is why there is such a monstrous injustice as the taxing of gold, which is required for the prosecution of the war, on the basis of production. The greater the quantity of gold produced, the more tax is paid, whether or not there is a loss on every ounce produced. It is a wrong method of taxation, which would not be accepted in respect of any other Australian industry in the eastern States. Gold-mining is 100 per cent, a country industry, and nearly 80 per cent, of the production comes from Western Australia. It is stated that at Kalgoorlie the heavy incidence of this tax results in the passing over of a lot of low-grade ore which could be worked if the tax were removed. The tax should be opposed by all parties in this cb amb" r, on the ground that it is contrary to all of the accepted principles of taxation. Gold is vital to Australia and the Empire, in order to secure the dollar credits that are needed in the United States of America. Modern wars are waged by mechanized armies. We can secure aeroplanes and much of the equipment, petrol and other essentials only from countries that are outside sterling exchange. It is imperative that our pro*duction of gold should be increased, to enable us to make purchases in the United States of America. Production should be encouraged, not discouraged by a monstrously unfair and stupid tax. If the commodity that is most necessary to enable us to wage the war is to be taxed, at least let the tax be at the rates fixed in respect of income tax, as is done in respect of secondary industries and many other things. The production of gold is so important to Australia that it would pay the Commonwealth to waive the tax, so long as a greater quantity was produced. The increase of production would not only increase the volume of employment but also enable the production of munitions for the conduct of the war to be enlarged. When the Federal Government imposed the levy of 50 per cent, of the amount received by gold producers in excess of £9 per fine oz., it reached  the  decision hurriedly and without conferring with the leaders of the State Mines Departments or other authorities on the subject. Again I complain that the Government does so much of its own volition, without consulting interested parties. Since the impost, strong opposition has been voiced to what is considered tho unfair principle of taxing production value, instead of the profits that mayaccrue from' the commodities produced. lc appears significant that gold production has been, singled out for imposition in view of the fact that the value of production in Western Australia has reached such pleasing figures. The prices of raw materials generally, especially those that are required for war purposes, have increased since the war commenced, in a number of instances to a greater degree than has the price of gold. If there be one commodity that should not be selected for a special levy, it is gold. Undue taxation discourages this industry by retarding contributions of capital, and, subsequently, by inducing an indifferent attitude by the public towards it. Goldmining is an activity of variable temperament. Suitable encouragement will reflect favorably on the industry, whilst the reverse will slowly but surely lull public  interest into somnolence. The Government appears to be under the impression that gold itself has the special virtue of being of value apart from the cost of winning it. This is a fallacy. Should a prospector or a mining company win a quantity of gold at a cost greater than its value, he or it would be better off without the metal, and consequently gets out of business. The Mount Magnet Company, through its engineer and director, has recently issued- the statement that that big' mine will soon go out of operation unless the tax on the production of gold is lifted.. The higher the value of gold, the better for all concerned. Residents of mining towns, workers, and traders, all receive value from rising gold prices. If there be any doubt concerning this, doubters should compare the active conditions to-day at Kalgoorlie, Wiluna, Mount Magnet, Coolgardie, Agnew, Marble Bar, Norseman, and other mining centres, with the conditions of those places when the ruling price for gold was S5s. per oz. The change is due to the higher price of the metal, enabling ore of lower gold content to be profitably treated. In other words, payable ore reserves have been inestimably increased. One does not need to possess much minim* knowledge to know that. Increased ore reserves demand treatment plants of greater size, and this means additional employment. It is estimated that one mining employee causes employment to be found for four others engaged outside the industry. I cite towns like Westonia, where there is very little except gold-mining, and about 100 employees are responsible for a population of five times that number. The Government of South Africa imposed  a  tax on gold production, but later removed it, realizing that the principle was wrong and militated against production, especially in- relation to low-grade ore deposits, and even high-grade properties which possessed low-grade ore bodies within their boundaries. Canada considered the imposition of a gold levy, but, realizing the folly of the policy, did not proceed with it. Thus, of tho three great gold-producing countries of the Empire Australia alone inflicts this levy on production. In India, Rhodesia and West Africa gold-producers are afflicted with a war levy on gold, but as cheap coloured labour is employed in these countries the imposition is less burdensome than in Australia. Suggestions have been made that low-grade mines should receive special consideration, with a view to compensating them for the levy. That, however, would not remedy the position. I am not prepared to say what would be. a fair grade to fix. Threepennyweight ore might be profitable in one locality, whereas in another, remote from railway facilities, it would be quite unprofitable. I consider that the impost should be entirely discontinued, and the legislation which imposed the tax repealed. We should adhere to the usual method of taxing profits by means of the income .tax which is applied to other industries. Even 5-dwt. ore in one place might be high' grade in another - at Big Bell for instance - in consequence of different conditions. The tax is wrong in principle and detrimental in its reactions, and should therefore be removed. An equable levy on the industries profiting from an increased output due to war conditions should be imposed. I therefore urge the Government to repeal the gold tax as it is altogether unjustifiable to impose . the tax on this commodity, which is so essential to the maintenance of our economic life. 
I do not' intend to refer at present to the other legislative proposals referred to in His Excellency's Speech. I shall conclude by saying that I entirely support the war effort of the Government and commend it- for the actions it has taken to prosecute the war. I am particularly pleased that the Communists within our midst are to be dealt with effectively. There can be no doubt the disastrous coal strike, which is paralysing our industries and dislocating the life of our people, is entirely due to the machinations of the self-confessed Communists who are the leaders of the coal-mining unions. I hope that the Government will go to the utmost limits in dealing with the Communist menace in our midst. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  agreed to. 
That the Address-iii-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor -General's Opening  Speech hu presented to  His Excellency  by the  President  and such senators as may desire to accompany him. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I shall ascertain when  His Excellency  the Governor-General will be pleased to receive the Address-in-Reply. When the time is fixed I shall acquaint honorable senators. 
.- I ask the Leader of the Government whether there is any reason why the Senate should ' not meet' at 11 a.m. to-morrow?" 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have ascertained that  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral will be pleased to receive the Address-in-Reply to his Opening Speech at Government House at half-past ten o'clock to-morrow morning. I invite as many honorable senators as can make it convenient to accompany me when I present it. 
Can the Minister for the Interior state what information is in the hands of the Government as to the quantity of firearms held by aliens in Australia? Will the Minister take steps to have regulations framed, compelling the holders of firearms to be licensed, where not licensed under States laws? 
The whole matter is under the consideration of the Government at the present time. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce inform the Senate whether the Government proposes to modify the Apple and Pear Acquisition Act to provide: (1) State varietal pools, each to be financially independent of the other; (2) that recognition be given to the principle of appraisement according to values within each State pool; (3) that advances paid on fruit not delivered to the State pool shall not be a charge on the pool? Before anything is done to modify the act, will the Government undertake to call a conference of growers only, so that they may fully represent their case? 
The questions submitted by the honorable senator will receive the consideration of the Government. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development state whether it is a fact that Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, some time ago, secured a government contract to supply shell cases at 80s. each,and is it a fact that the company refunded to the Government, after completion of the contract, 7s. 6d. in respect of each . shell case, as" conscience " money? 
The amount that the honorable senator suggests was refunded as " conscience " money was not correctly described by him. A refund was made by the company to the Government in respect of an order received by it; when the company found that it was able to produce this article at a much lower price than had been paid up to that time, the amount saved was refunded to the. Government, because the company did. not wish to make an undue profit out of the transaction. 
If the honorable senator will give notice of that question, the information will be obtained for him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What will be the basis of representation on the proposed apple and pear conference to be held in June? 
Will the Government see that adequate notice is given to interests concerned to elect their representatives? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and 2. The State Premiers have been communicated with regarding the conference, and it has been suggested that each Minister of Agriculture will represent the State at the conference. Additionally, they have been requested to arrange preliminary discussions with representatives of all sections of the apple and pear industrywithin their States. The basis of representation from the industry will depend upon the arrangements made by each State Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Does the Minister assure the Senate that the price at which wool is sold to neutral countries is not known either in Great Britain or in the countries of sale? 2.In view of the concern of Australian wool-growers regarding any sales by Great Britain to neutral countries, should they not be informed of the prices received? 
Why should they not be advised as to the price which the British Government is charging for wool sold to British manufacturers? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 2 and 3. These aspects are still the subject of consultation with the Government of the United Kingdom, and they are still at a confidential stage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Has he seen a statement in the Sydney  Sun  of the 11th May, 1940, to the effect that because of delay in the despatch of official advice from Whitehall, three days from the latest German act of aggression had to elapse before the Australian War Cabinet could discuss it? 
Is it a fact that, although Parliament was in session while the German army was crossing the Dutch frontiers, news of the invasion did not reach Canberra until after the House had adjourned, four hours later? 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the system of news reception has been improved in the interim? 
The Minister for Information has supplied the following answers: - 
No. 2 and 3. The Department of Information does not receive telegraphic news despatches of any kind dealing with the war from the Government of the United Kingdom. The department is not a competitive news department. Official news received from the Govern ment of the United Kingdom by other Commonwealth departments is in the nature of authentic reports. These reports cannot possibly compete in speed with press news gathered perhaps at the present time in Europe by many hundreds of special correspondents representing both individual newspapers and great news-gathering agencies. 
DISMISSAL OF  Mr. j.  H. BEAUCHAMP. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister lay upon the Table of the Senate the report of the inquiry which resulted in the dismissal of  Mr. J.  H. Beauchamp from the Postmaster-General's Department, Victoria, on the 27th February last? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer :  - 
The case of  Mr. J.  H. Beauchamp was dealt with under the provisions of the Public Service Act. It is not desirable to make the papers in such cases available as the interests of officers are fully safeguarded by the act mentioned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Now that the supply of apple wrapping paper is cut off from Norway, will the Government put in hand inquiries for the securing of supplies for next season's crop? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - . 
The sources of supply of wrapping paper will be examined with a view to instituting inquiries regarding the provision of requirements for the next season's crop. 
On the 23rd April  Senator Clothier  asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following questions :  - 
What Ministers, or members of the Government, have made official trips overseas since the 19th October, 1938? 
What countries did each Minister visit? 
For what period was each Minister absent from Australia? 
What was the total cost of each delegation with which Ministers were associated? 
The Prime Minister has now furnished the following replies :  - 

<graphic href="163332194005153_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
No change of policy is involved in this measure. In clause 7, increased power is sought to deport certain classes of undesirable aliens; but otherwise the object of the proposed amendment is to bring the act up to date for administrative purposes, and to remedy certain weaknesses which experience has shown to exist in the present law. I shall now explain briefly the various provisions of the bill. For some years alien immigration into Australia has been controlled by a landing permit system. Every alien must obtain permission, usually in the form of a landing permit issued by the Department of the Interior, before he is admitted into the Commonwealth for permanent residence. The act provides that any alien may be prohibited from entering Australia if, on demand by an officer, he fails to satisfy the officer that he is the holder of a landing permit or that his admission into Australia has been authorized by or on behalf of the Minister. It is usual in the case of alien immigrants, other than dependent relatives of persons already settled in Australia, to stipulate certain conditions of admission, such as possession of valid passports, landing money, &amp;c. Paragraph  ge  of section 3, in its present form, does not indicate clearly that the landing permit relates to admission into Australia, and it does not stipulate that the holder of the permit must comply with the conditions specified in the permit. There are, of course, other means of prohibiting entry if an alien holder of a landing permit cannot comply with the conditions of his admission, such as the effective application of a dictation test, but it is desirable that the necessity for him to comply with such conditions should be definitely stated as set forth in the proposed amendment of paragraph  ge.  Included in the classes of prohibited immigrants specified in section 3 of the Immigration Act is any person who has been deported from the Commonwealth in pursuance of any act. In cases that have arisen from time to time, it would have been reasonable and even desirable to re-admit to Australia a person who had previously been deported, not for a criminal offence, but because he had become temporarily a charge on the community, or had deserted his ship. The Minister should have power to consider each such case on its merits, and to authorize re-admission where circumstances fully warrant such action. It is, therefore, proposed that paragraph  gg  of  section 3 of the principal act, which prohibits the re-entry of a deportee, should be amended to read : " Any person -who has been deported in pursuance of any act unless his re-entry into the Commonwealth has been authorized by the Minister." Clause 4, which relates to certificates of exemption, is largely a repetition of the existing section 4 of the principal act; hut that section does not specify the classes of persons to whom certificates of exemption, entitling the holder to reside temporarily in Australia, may be issued. The purpose of the proposed amending clause is to make it clear that the act provides that the Minister, or an officer authorized by him in writing, may issue a certificate of exemption in the prescribed form authorizing any person, who, unless he possesses such a certificate, is liable to be prohibited under the act from entering or remaining in Australia, to enter for temporary residence, or if he is already here but not eligible to remain indefinitely, to remain during the currency of the certificate without being subject to any of the provisions of the act restricting entry into or residence in the Commonwealth. This provision is mainly used in connexion with the temporary admission of non-Europeans, who visit Australia for business or pleasure. It is also used for the temporary admission of white persons who would be liable to restriction on account of illness or other reasons. There is power under the existing section 4 to deport the holder of a certificate of exemption on the expiration of cancellation of his certificate. This new provision provides for giving notice to the person concerned to leave within a specified period before action to deport is taken. 
There are many instances in which persons are admitted temporarily under certificate of exemption in the first place, and are permitted to remain permanently. The decision depends mainly on whether they would he eligible for permanent admission except for temporary disability such as illness. Clause 5 does not call foi any comment at present ; hut with respect to clause 6 it may be explained that section 7aa referred to therein provides that where a person has been convicted on a charge of being a prohibited immigrant and sentenced to a term of im prisonment pending deportation, tho imprisonment shall cease for the purposes of deportation, or, subject to authority being granted by the Minister, if the offender finds two approved sureties, each in the sum of £100, foi- his leaving the Commonwealth within one month. From time to time it is found that convicted persons have business or property interests to dispose of, and., in some cases, it is reasonable that, if they find the necessary sureties, they should be allowed longer than one month. The Minister is to be the judge in the light of special circumstances submitted for his consideration. It is  therefore  proposed to add after the words " one month " in section 7aa the words " or within such extended period as is authorized by the Minister ". Clause 7 necessitates some special observations. Section 8 of the act provides for the deportation of an alien convicted of a crime of violence against the person or any attempt to commit such a crime at any time after his arrival in Australia. From time to time aliens, particularly in north Queensland, extort money or attempt to extort money, mainly from their own countrymen, by methods which cannot be tolerated ; but no actual violence against a person is involved; For example, they may threaten to burn down a homo or cane crop. Some years ago action was taken to deport several aliens who had been convicted of crimes of violence, against the person, and this action had a deterrent effect; but it will be a greater deterrent if aliens are made to realize that they will he liable to deportation if  convicted of any crime of extorting or attempting to extort by force or threat money or property from any resident of Australia. Only recently I signed an order for the deportation of an alien who had been convicted at Townsville of demanding money by threats. In that case it was possible to issue the order under section 8a of the Immigration Act because the offender had been resident in Australia for less than five years, and had been convicted ot a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment for one year or longer. Representations were made to me to give further consideration to this case. I' postponed the deportation for a short period until I ascertained whether any miscarriage of justice had taken place. After full consultation with the Queensland Police Department I found that no reason existed why the deportation should not be carried out. Consequently, I signed the necessary order, and the deportation is now being put into effect. 
Unfortunately, a tendency to indulge in what are known as " black hand " practices has been exhibited among aliens in northern Queensland. Cases have occurred in which many perfectly reputable Italian farmers have been subjected to " black hand" methods by their fellowcountrymen who desired to extort money from them. In most cases, however, the victims of these practices are afraid to lay the facts before the police because they fear reprisals. Fortunately, in the particular case to which I have just referred, the farmer concerned informed the police of the threats made against him, and the police successfully prosecuted the offender, who was sentenced in the Supreme Court at Townsville to a term of imprisonment. I take this opportunity to make it quite clear that in every case in which it is proved that " black hand " methods are being practised, I shall not hesitate to issue a deportation order against the offender. 
It is very desirable that aliens should not be allowed to believe that they are free to indulge-, in this class of crime once they have passed the five-year period of residence in Australia. For this reason, it is considered necessary to extend the scope of section 8 in order to cover crimes of the class to which I have been referring, as that section does not limit the period within which action may be taken against alien offenders. As I have referred particularly to aliens in north Queensland, I point out that from my own experience, as well as from investigations made by departmental officers, it is evident that the great majority of such aliens are law-abiding, peaceful, and industrious. Only a few have given trouble in the past, and it is desired to prevent anything in the nature of a " black hand " gang from raising its ugly head again in this country. It is proposed to strengthen section 8 further by providing for the deportation of aliens who are convicted of criminal offences other than those to which I have just referred, and who are sentenced to imprisonment for one year or longer. 
Section 8c provides that where the Minister has made an order under the Immigration Act for the deportation of any person, that person shall be deported accordingly. Cases arise occasionally in which circumstances come to light, after the issue of a deportation order, which make it undesirable to put the order into effect, and the Minister, who has power to make such an order, should also have discretionary power to withhold its enforcement if the circumstances warrant such action. If amended as is proposed in clause 8, the section would read - 
Where the Minister has made an order under this Act for the deportation of any person that person shall, unless the Minister otherwise directs, be deported accordingly .... 
Clause 9 does not call for much comment. Numerous maintenance guarantees have been obtained in connexion with the admission of aliens into Australia. These guarantees usually provide that for a specified period the guarantors shall ensure that their nominees are not allowed to become a charge upon public funds. Immigration regulation No. 6 provides that where any person in respect of whom a maintenance guarantee has been given becomes, within five years from the date of his arrival in the Commonwealth, a charge upon State funds, or upon any public or charitable institution, the cost of his maintenance may be recovered, in any court of competent jurisdiction, from the person who guaranteed his maintenance. Fortunately, very few cases have arisen in which the department has been called upon to take action to enforce the guarantees, and so far no court proceedings have been necessary. It is held to be desirable, however, that the regulation referred to should be supported by statutory power to make regulations relating to the obtaining and enforcing of maintenance guarantees. 
Many aliens now in Australia have come from various European countries. To them the Government says that so long as they obey the laws of Australia they will be assured of all the privileges and freedom to which residence under the British flag entitles them. However, if they are not prepared to observe our laws and become good Australians, as we desire them to do, there is no room for them in this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second -time. 
This bill proposes an amendment of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1039, by the insertion of a provision lo the effect that a notice in the  Gazette  of any ordinance of the Northern Territory having been made, and of the place where copies of the ordinance can be purchased, shall be sufficient notification of the ordinance for the purposes of the act. At present ordinances of the Northern Territory are notified in full in the  Commonwealth Gazette.  Often this legislation is lengthy and occupies many pages of the  Gazette.  It is proposed that in future the title only of the ordinance shall he published, together with information as to where copies can be purchased. The resultant saving in paper should commend itself on the grounds of economy. 
Commonwealth acts and statutory rules ure not published in the  Gazette  in full, and no inconvenience should be caused to persons interested by reason of the nonpublication of the full terms of ordinances. It is also proposed to discontinue publication in full of regulations made under ordinances of the Northern Territory. 
Many ordinances which affect the Northern Territory relate only to minor matters, but are very lengthy and interest only about 5 per cent, of those who now receive the  Gazette.  The notification of new ordinances in the  Gazette  in the formnow proposed will give to these people all of the information they require to enable them to secure complete copies of such ordinances, which will freely be made available to them upon application. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- I welcome the statement made by the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  that the Government is at the present time considering a repatriation hill for the second Australian Imperial Force, but I urge that an inquiry should be made into the cases of soldiers of the old Australian Imperial Force who since the 1914-18 war have developed illnesses as a result of war service. 
Many such cases are represented to honorable senators and honorable members of the House of Representatives, and in our endeavours to secure justice for the claimants we are involved in a great deal of work. Quite a number of these men were discharged as medically unfit, but many of them did not make a claim for a pension at the time, and went back to their jobs. Subsequently, however, their ailments developed, and in the present pensions legislation no provision is made for them. I urge the Government to take that matter into consideration. 
It is impossible for the Government to hold a mass inquiry into such cases. They are examined separately by the proper tribunals, and I do not know a better method whereby the disabilities of individuals could be accurately ascertained. Whatever treatment returned soldiers are entitled to under the Repatriation Act is given freely. 
I would like the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  to supply honorable senators with some information with regard to the amount of £10,000,000 to be appropriated by this bill. Speaking from memory, the annual war pensions bill does not exceed £8,500,000. If that is so, what is the reason for paying £10,000,000 into the trust fund? Does the Government anticipate such an enlargement of the repatriation scheme that the increased benefits to be made available to ex-soldiers of the 1914-18 war will absorb an additional £1,500,000 this year? It may be that the Government intends to extend the benefits of the Repatriation Act to other ex-soldiers of the 1914-18 war, who, up to date, have been ineligible for a pension; perhaps the Government intends to include members of the mercantile marine, many of whom served in various theatres of war but are not eligible for benefits under the Repatriation Act. I should like to know to what extent payment of the service pension has been made in respect of the 1914-18 war? As the ex-soldiers grow older their disabilities increase, and consequently applications for a service pension, are more numerous. Much more information regarding the bill, which is of great interest to the people of Australia generally, should have been given by the Minister in charge of it. 
  Senator McBRIDE  (South Australia- 
Assistant Minister for Commerce) [3.6]. - As I mentioned in my second-reading speech, this bill has nothing to do with the conditions under which pensions are paid to ex-soldiers. It is merely an appropriation measure. The amount of £10,000,000 is the usual sum by which the trust fund is replenished, and does not cover any specific period or imply any increase of pension benefits; it may be sufficient to meet all needs for a period in excess of twelve months. Although £10,000,000 will be appropriated by this measure, the money will not be taken out of revenue and paid into the trust fund until that fund is in need of it. Consequently the appropriation of £10,000,000 will not. impose any greater burden on the budget than would an appropriation of £5,000,000. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [3.7]. - In view of the appropriation of this £10,000,000, will the Assistant Minister for Commence  (Senator McBride)  state whether it is the intention of the Government to extend the scope of the present act?From time to time the Government has indicated that at some future date the Repatriation Act will he amended to include cases which to-day are not provided for. 
The Government does not intend to amend the Repatriation Act, in relation to veterans of the 1914-18 war, unless some specific need to do so becomes evident. 
The amendments mentioned will provide for the inclusion of soldiers of the second Australian Imperial Force, and will have nothing whatever to do with the soldiers who served in the 1914-18 war. 
The former Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. White)  practically promised that the Repatriation Act would be amended to include categories of ex- soldiers who . to-day are ineligible to receive benefits under the act. I should like to know if the extension of benefits to those ex-soldiers is the reason for the appropriation of £1,500,000 in excess of last year's war pensions bill ? 
There is no significance whatever about the amount of £10,000,000. This measure does not indicate that the Government has in view any amendment of the act. 
The money is not borrowed ; it is drawn from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Commonwealth. 
 I hope that the administration of this act will be more sympathetic in the future than it has been during the last twelve months. I say this because a considerable amount of the time of honorable senators on this side is occupied in making representations concerning complaints from persons who are entitled to payments under this law. 
Order! The honorable senator is not entitled to make a second-reading speech at this stage. 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
, - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this measure is to provide £17,000,000 out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the payment  of  invalid and old-age pensions. This measure is similar to that periodically submitted to Parliament for the purpose of appropriating an amount from the Consolidated 
Revenue Fund for payment into a trust account in order to enable pensions to be paid at rates already approved by Parliament. The total amount appropriated to date for this purpose is £240,000,000, and the balance of this appropriation now remaining is sufficient only to meet pension payments to  the 31st  May, 1940. Although Parliament is being asked to approve of £17,000,000, which is approximately a year's expenditure, this amount will not be withdrawn from revenue immediately. Revenue is only drawn upon for payment to the trust account as required, to enable pension payments  to be made as they become due. This measure has no relation whatsoever to the rates or conditions under which invalid and old-age pensions are paid ; it merely approves the provision of funds for the purpose. 
 I direct the attention of the Minister to the heavy expenditure incurred by the Commonwealth in respect ' of invalid pensions to persons suffering from occupational diseases, which, I contend, should be the responsibility of State authorities. In New South Wales, workmen engaged in the construction of sewers and similar works in the cities and larger provincial centres become affected with the disease known as silicosis. Under the New South Wales law the compensation payable is £750  -  it has been as high as £1,000  -  and when this sum is exhausted persons suffering from occupational diseases become a liability of the Commonwealth Government. I submit that full compensation in all such cases is the responsibility of those people who have benefited from the carrying out of these works. I do not know to what extent the Commonwealth expenditure on invalid pensions has been increased on this account, but as a large number of persons suffer from these occupational diseases the total for the whole of Australia must be considerable. I therefore suggest that this matter be taken up with the various State governments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 

 - by leave - read a copy of the ministerial statement delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr. McEwen)  (vide  page 739). 
That information is available to the honorable senator. 
This is not a kindergarten class. The honorable senator can obtain the figures if he so desires. 
Although a reduction of the present retail price of sugar by  id.  per lb. would render bankrupt many cane-growers and reduce production considerably, there would probably be a substantial number of growers still able to produce .Australia's sugar requirements, and perhaps a small surplus for export. Would any far-sighted Australian citizen accept with favour the consequences? Our present exports of raw- sugar are worth about £6,000,000 per annum, thus providing equivalent export credits of considerable value to Australia, especially under present conditions. A marked reduction of these exports would also reduce our exportcredits. The resultant decreased income from sugar would similarly reduce sugar producers' purchases of a comprehensive range of Australian products, which are obtained principally from the southern States. Moreover, some thousands of canegrowers and workers engaged on farms, and in mills and transport would lose their present means of earning a living, and thus the unemployment problem would be intensified. 
I emphasize that the estimated average return for all raw sugar of standard quality during the last four seasons has ranged from £15 2s. 2d. to £15 14s. 3d. a ton, as against an average of £15 6s. for 1913 and 1914, when wages, rates and other costs were much lower than at present. The. return was £30. 6s. 8d. a ton from 1920 to 1922; £27 and £26 for the next two years; and in subsequent years, owing to increasing export surpluses, from £24 down to £15 14s. 3d. for 1939. Since the outbreak of war the increase of the producers' net return on exported raw sugar has already been largely counteracted by increased costs of all production, due to higher rates of wages and the effect of war conditions on the freight rates and prices of sacks, fertilizers, and many other items. The Government has carefully considered all of these important factors, and is quite satisfied that a renewal of the present sugar agreement at current selling prices for sugar for domestic consumption constitutes a fair deal to both producers and consumers. Perhaps, at this stage, I should make it clear that the sugar agreement is a document which relates only to peace-time conditions. This being the case, the Commonwealth is precluded under the Constitution from fixing in the agreement the prices to be charged by retail grocers to domestic consumers. That power is reserved to each of the States. In times of "national emergency" - that is war - the Commonwealth can fix, or control selling prices by legislation based on section 51 (vi) of the Commonwealth Constitution. Such power has been taken during the present war by regulations  issued  under the National Security Act. The' retail price of sugar is thus not relevant to the bill now before the Senate. I may say, however, that the Commonwealth Prices Commission has under consideration requests by various retail grocers' associations for retailers to be allowed to obtain a larger gross profit on sugar by increasing the present capital city price from 4d. to 4Jd. per lb. 
In the new sugar agreement provision has been made for the principle of uniform sugar prices in State capital cities and Launceston to be applied as from the 1st September, 1941, to Darwin, a3 the capital of the Northern Territory. The Government recently became aware that the retail price of refined sugar in Darwin is 5£d. per lb. as against 4d. in State capital, cities, thus giving Darwin grocers an extravagant gross profit on their landed costs, equal to three timesthe profit in State capitals. Under the new sugar agreement, Darwin retailers will receive sugar from Brisbane or Sydney as from the 1st September, 1941, at the prices charged to retailers in  State  capital cities, and they have undertaken to reduce the retail price correspondingly. Apart from this, it is hoped that some reduction of the present retail price at Darwin will be effected in the near future. 
I have already referred to the new terms for the wholesale discount on sugar to operate as from the 1st September, 1940. When the present sugar agreement was under consideration in 1935, the Government attempted to restore, as nearly as possible, equal and fair conditions of trade amongst all wholesalers and all retailers respectively. For some years prior to 1935, there was considerable discountcutting by numerous wholesalers, which injured other wholesalers, and which the Federal Wholesale Merchants Association wished the Government to suppress. This discount-cutting and other unauthorized concessions, such as cartage rebates, benefited many chain stores and other large retailers, whose gross profits consequently were larger than those of their competitors. On the other hand, retail grocers' associations urged that the wholesale discount should be made available to any group of retailers. 
The Government was confronted with two possible solutions of the problem - first, to prevent wholesalers from giving away any of the discount, or making any other unauthorized con- cessions, thus ensuring that all retailers would buy sugar at - the same price; or, secondly, to make the discount available to any group of retailers with the same object in view. Having in mind the great degree to which country storekeepers are dependent upon wholesale merchants for credit - in many cases banks and other financial institutions are unwilling to render aid - the Government chose the first solution, and confined the sugar discount of 2 per cent, to any persons, firms, or corporations who, or which, in the opinion of the Queensland Sugar Board, whose decision would be final and conclusive - 
are wholesale merchants, 
sell sugar products only to completelyindependent retailers or manufacturers, 
engage to a reasonable degree in the sale of sugar products on credit terms, 
sell sugar products under conditions approved by the board. These conditions related to absolute abstention from discountcutting, cartage rebates, or other unauthorized concessions to retailers. 
This plan, it will be noted, gave dictatorial and unrestricted power to the Queensland Sugar Board to deprive any wholesaler of the discount, if the board had reasonable ground for believing that the wholesaler was acting improperly. No direct evidence, but only reasonable belief, was necessary; and no aggrieved wholesaler could take any effective action through a court against an adverse decision of the board. Wholesalers' associations asked for such a plan, believing that it alone would succeed in abolishing discount-cutting and other improper practices. Nevertheless, the Government has since had constant complaints from reputable wholesalers, alleging continued discount-cutting, and is aware from retailers and other sources that this practice is fairly general. The Queensland Sugar Board has felt obliged to seek, or await, at least some tangible proof of discount-cutting, but states that it has received no such proof. This is rather to be expected, seeing that the accounts and records of defaulting wholesalers are most unlikely to reveal evidence concerning the matter. Nor are the beneficiaries of the rebates, the retailers, likely to admit the receipt of them, because that could only result in their losing the rebates. 
The present position is, therefore, that the wholesale discount experiment in the current sugar agreement has failed. Many retailers, principally some chain stores and larger individual retail grocers, are buying sugar at less than the price paid by most of their competitors, and are thus receiving larger gross profits. Moreover, an anomalous position exists, under which a few retailer-wholesalers and co-operative farmers' associations or companies, who receive wholesale dis counts on almost every commodity except sugar, are excluded from the sugar discount, whilst exactly similar, or nearly similar, concerns have been receiving the sugar discount for many years or have been added to the list during the last few years. The evolution of trade has resulted in all wholesalers selling nearly all of their sugar in the capital cities for cash, credit thus being practically nonexistent. Where such wholesalers do not cater for country trade, they cannot be regarded as complying with paragraph c of the present conditions. Indeed, a discount of 2 per cent. is too large for such virtually brokerage transactions, seeing that, in respect of from 80 per cent. to 90 per cent. of capital city sales, the sugar is delivered direct from the refinery to the retailer according to a list supplied to the refinery by the wholesaler. 
Having regard to the various considerations which I have felt it necessary to describe at some length, and to the undesirability of further giving to the Queensland Sugar Board absolute power in a peace-time agreement, in an endeavour to operate what experience has proved to be a practically unworkable plan, the Common wealth and Queensland Governments have decided that, as from the 1st September, 1940, the wholesale discount of 2 per cent. on sugar shall be payable to any person, firm or corporation who, or which, in the opinion of the Queensland Sugar Board - 
provides reasonable credit facilities for retailers on a comprehensive range of groceries ; 
keeps reasonable stocks of such groceries for resale to retailers; and 
buys in each calendar month not less than £1,500 worth of sugar and other sugar products. 
This arrangement, which defines the basic functions of a wholesale merchant, is expected to enable all existing anomalies to be adjusted. Wholesale merchants are essential in the grocery business, but the two governments consider that it should be their own affair, or the affair of their associations, as is the case in regard to practically all commodities other than sugar, to devise means of preventing their members from giving away part of the sugar discount, or other  equivalent concessions on sugar orders, to retail buyers. To this end the Queensland Sugar Board may be able to co-operate with wholesalers. 

Federation of Retail Grocers Associations of Australia have informed the Government of their full accord with this proposal, and certain long-established wholesale concerns have done likewise. 
The only other significant aspect of the new sugar agreement embodied in the bill is the annual contribution of £216,000 per annum by the sugar industry to assist the manufactured fruits industry. This amount is the same as is provided in the current sugar agreement, but a separate undertaking has been given by the Queensland Government that the sugar industry shall make an additional contribution each year equivalent to the export rebates paid on the sugar contents, in excess of 500 tons, of jams and fruit jellies exported from Australia. The additional sum will, of course, vary in accordance with fluctuating jam exports, but it should average about £45,000 per annum. 
These funds are administered by the Fruit Industry Concession Committee, which is composed of one representative from each of the following: - Commonwealth Government, Queensland Sugar Board, growers of canning fruits, growers of non-canning fruits, cooperative and State manufacturers of fruit products, and proprietary manufacturers of fruit products. The representatives of the Commonwealth Government, and the Queensland Sugar Board are chairman  and  deputy chairman  respectively of the committee. During the first four years of the current sugar agreement, the annual amount of £216,000 has been almost sufficient to meet all the obligations of the committee and the needs of the manufactured fruits industry. The committee has admittedly received £90,000 during the last three years in the form of an annual voluntary contribution by sugar producers in respect of excess exports of jam, but it will have surplus funds of at least £60,000 at the end of its fourth year. During those four years, the committee has been able to secure for growers of fruits for canning, jam, pulping, crystallizing, cordials, &amp;c, very satisfactory minimum prices payable by all factories in Australia. Practically all processible fruit has been taken by factories, except in respect of some jam fruits. The committee has also provided bounties where needed, on exports of all canned fruits, jams, and berry pulps, so that these exports have been profitable to manufacturers. During the last three years successive all-time record exports of canned fruits have occurred, being three times as large as the usual exports before 1931, when the committee was established. Exports of jam have increased eight-fold under the committee's jurisdiction, and are increasing at a much greater rate since the war began. The position of the committee, and , of the. manufactured fruits industry, has been substantially improved under the new sugar agreement by the conversion of the present voluntary contribution by sugar producers on excess jam exports, which hitherto was purely optional each year, to a permanent right under the Queensland Government's separate undertaking. The Government considers that such improvement in funds will be warranted by the volume of production and the export values of canned fruits during the period of the new sugar agreement, and that the total financial provision thus made will meet the reasonable needs of all sections of the manufactured fruits industry. 
In conclusion, I should like briefly to inform honorable senators of the favoured position now enjoyed by Australia in regard to sugar as compared with our position in the last war. During the last war, Australia produced approximately only two-thirds of its requirements of sugar, and had to import, the balance from foreign countries. The A ustralian producer's price was limited by the Commonwealth Government to amounts of £18 and £21 a ton from 1915 to 1919. Throughout this period, imported foreign sugar cost the Government considerably more than was paid to Australian producers, and in 1919 and 1920 Australia had to import approximately 230,000 tons of raw sugar, the average landed cost of which was more than £50 per ton - or substantially more than twice the rates to Australian producers. Moreover, on numerous occasions, supplies to Australian consumers were rationed and some of the foreign sugar was of a very inferior quality. Manufacturers of jam and other commodities for export were very seriously embarrassed, as were many fruit-growers who supplied their produce to the factories. 
Owing to the far-sighted policy of the Commonwealth Government under the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, the sugar industry was encouraged by the sugar agreement of 1930-22, to produce all Australia's requirements. For that purpose, a special price for raw sugar of £30 6s. 8d. per ton was awarded, but that amount has been very considerably reduced since 1922. The final result is that Australia is now producing from 850,000 tons to 900,000'tons each year, of which 365,000 tons is required for refining for home consumption, and the balance is exported, creating credits overseas of £6,000,000 a year. 
Australia is in no possible danger of a sugar shortage during the present war. Indeed, Australian exports of goods containing sugar are actually still further increasing, to the general advantage  of  the community and the particular advantage of the industries concerned. 
I therefore commend the bill to the Senate^ believing that all honorable senators will agree that it provides equitable treatment for all sections of the community affected by sugar production and consumption. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Amour)  adjourned. 
During the last few days a good deal has been heard in this chamber to which, it may bc imagined, some attempt should be made b)' honorable senators on this side to reply. We have heard much about Communists and non-Communists, disloyalty,  a  national government and the failure of one party in this Parliament to agree to participate therein. J admit that the temptation to deal with these matters is fairly great, but I intend  to  avoid it. I am tired . of explaining the Opposition's view on these matters. I have always believed - and to-day I am more convinced than ever before - that on such points one's friends do not need an explnation whilst one's enemies will not believe it anyway. Events now happening on the other side of the world create an atmosphere which, in my opinion, should make every one of us exceedingly serious in all the work we have to do in this branch of the national legislature. Honorable senators on all sides can surely give each other credit for some sort of honesty and some sort of honour. It is that thought which makes me say now that great though the temptation be to deal with these subjects, I decline in the present atmosphere to succumb to it. 
I propose to say something about the financial proposals of the Government in this time of serious stress. I preface my remarks simply with the observation that in the criticism I propose to offer I have in mind only one thought, namely, what is. best for Australia. We heard the statement by the Assistant Minister, and we have also received, copies of the Treasurer's more detailed financial statement. In this document the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  said that a threefold task confronted the Government. On a previous occasion I said that the Government is confronted with a twofold task.. The Treasurer has gone one better, but, incidentally, he does not include in his three points that which I gave as my second point. The Treasurer detailed the threefold task confronting the- Government as - 
First, to prosecute the war with all the force at ite command- 
We on this side agree entirely with that view - 
This involved, incidentally, various emergency measures which had  to  be taken for the preservation of both internal and external trade stability. Controls had also  to be  established  to  promote the progressive organization of our resources for war - 
Secondly, to increase  our  war potential  by  raising  to their maximum the general  levels of income, employment  and  production. 
Thirdly, to take a longer view of the whole period of the war to the phase of reconstruction beyond. 
With this outlook, it was determined to reduce interest rates, keep the growth of public debt to a minimum, maintain essential development, and, above all. avoid a cumulative rise of costs and prices. 
The task confronting the Government could not be more clearly set out. I say with all respect that the more I analyse the statement of those three points, the more I atn convinced that the Government has failed entirely in respect of each one of them. That is a serious statement to make. I believe that the Government is doing its best to carry out the first of these tasks, but I do not believe that it is using all of the forces at its command. Indeed, some of the most important forces are being left entirely unused. We have in Australia at the moment probably not less than 250;000 men unemployed. Of that number, it would be fair to say that at least 160,000 are capable of doing work, and are anxious and willing to get on with the job. However, we have nothing to offer them at the moment. As.  to  the second task - that we must increase our war potential by raising to their maximum the general levels of income, employment and production - I can only say that this has not been done.. We have no evidence that the Government is attempting to do anything in this direction. As to the reduction of interest rates, keeping the growth of public debt to a minimum, maintaining essential development, and avoiding a cumulative rise of costs and prices, not one of these things has been done. As a matter of fact, as I hope to show in my subsequent remarks, the very opposite has been accomplished. 
I propose now to deal with the Government's taxation proposals. I shall approach this subject in a general way, because when the actual proposals are before the Senate we shall be able in committee to concentrate on the particular proposals themselves. Let us see what budgetary steps the Government has taken. The Treasurer says, among other things - 
The pressing problem has been the conservation of non-sterling exchange. Control of exports has also been necessary to preserve resources for local requirements. 
That ought to he done; but how is the job being tackled? Let us look at the facts with regard to imports and exports. According to the Treasurer, our overseas expenditure in connexion with the war in the next financial year will be £35,000,000. The Government has already floated a loan of £6,000,000 in London. If there is one thing to which we on this side object it is borrowing abroad. We object, of course, to the general trend of the Government's financial policy. I shall have something to say  later about the opportunity that is now presentedto useour national credit to a far greater degree than the Government is apparently prepared to use it, or even to visualize. In tire meantime, I should like to deal with our financial position overseas. Inaddition to the flotation of the £6,000,000 loan in London, the Government has received temporary accommodation from the United Kingdom Government to enable it to carry on, and meet its commitments until December next. The statement which is now. under discussion, and the more detailed statement given by the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender),  say nothing whatever about the manner in which that temporary accommodation is tobe met, or as to the financing of future commitments: I say emphatically that my opinion, and that of all members of the Opposition, is that the external situation is more complex than the internal one which the Government's proposals appear to have covered reasonably well at the moment: The external debt can be financed only by borrowing in London, or by an excess of exports over imports. This isnot a new problem. It is a more urgent problem at the moment because of our defence requirements, and the increased financial provision which will have to be made; but other governments ofthis country have had to face exactly the same quandary, which, briefly stated, is how best to convert an unfavorable trade balance into a favorable one. There was one Commonwealth Government which took heroic measures to rectify that position-measures which this Government; could very well afford to imitate, andno doubt would imitate if it werenot f or its political pride, or perhaps its utter incapacity to understand the situation and the remedy. 
Yes, more exports. If I were a supporter of the Government, I would not feel inclined to say too much about that. To-day Australia has an abundance of commodities for export, and they could be sent to the people who need them and can afford to pay for them,had itnot been for the action of a government of the same political complexion as the one now occupying the treasury bench, in ignoring advice offered by the Labour party, and selling the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers. The honorable senator brings to my mind the utter failure of the Government to make provision for Australian shipbuilding; the folly of selling the ships which the Commonwealth owned; and manyother things which, in my opinion, deserve repeated emphasis, even though their reiteration becomes a little tiresome. 
The position so far as the London fund is concerned is that Australia has about £56,000,000to cover all of its commitments. That is the lowest amount since the depression. Approximately £27,000,000 isneeded every year for interest on Commonwealth, State and local government borrowings, and at the moment just about double thatamount is required. It is true that some restrictions have been placed on imports from nonsterling countries, and it is known that the professedly patriotic importersof this country are continually wailing and beseeching the Government- they are friends of the Government - because of the inconvenience and the loss of profit caused to them by the restriction of imports. I tell the Government that there is no way out, with regard to this external need, other than resort to heroic measures. Not only imports fromnonsterlirig countries, but also imports from sterling countries must be restricted. It is of no use to say that this cannot be done, because if it is not done Australia will be in a pdsifiori which I hate to contemplate, because ofall that it portends for the future after this war is over. 
The Treasurer said he was fearful of inflation of prices owing to expansion of credit through the banking system. These are old words; we have heard them often before. If they are dissected we find that all they mean is that the Treasurer eitherisnot prepared, or is unable, to control prices,andthathe is unableto trust those who manipulate prices, rig themarkets, and do a hundred and one other things, the result of which is that the cost of living, in spite of the activities ofthe price-fixing commission and it's deputiesin the various States, is going up by leaps andbounds at a time when the workers are being told that they will have to agree to dilution of labour, and Lengthening of hours without any increase of wages. 
1 propose to back up my arguments with facts. Let us examine for a moment what the Treasurer said with regard to employment. His statements are interesting to me because, as I have said on many occasions before, I have had long experience. I have been through the whole gamut of the system by which industry, wealth production, and distribution are organized, and every one of my experiences was bitter indeed. The Treasurer has said that total employment, which previously had been falling, had increased month by month from August last year up to the  present,  in spite of severe shocks to business in the early months of this year. He said that that fact was a tribute to the Government's administration. The Treasurer is either very innocent or he thinks that we are, because when his statement is analysed it is an admission that his Government was in complete control of this National Parliament over the period during which, on his own admission, employment was falling. He cannot have it both ways. Employment was falling while his Government was in control; it is now rising while his Government is in control. 
 .Senator Wilson  is one of those gullible innocents from South Australia who, without intelligent dissection or inquiry, swallow anything that the Government likes to offer. I am quoting the Treasurer's own words. He said that month by month from August of last year up to the present, in spite of shocks to business in the early months of this year, employment which previously had been falling has since been increasing. I am not arguing about the truth of this statement. I claim that he is telling the truth. Apparently it is only 'his ardent supporter,  Senator Wilson,  who denies what the Treasurer has said. 
The  Treasurer should be honest and admit  that  the only reason*, why employment is rising to-day are, first, because of the vastly increased expenditure on defence, and, secondly ? because of the great volume of commodities exported and the more rapid payment which the primary producers are receiving for them. Both these things are entirely incidental to the war. The Government was not responsible for bringing the war on, so why should it claim credit for the rise in employment with so much unctuous satisfaction? Obviously a long war is visualized. If that is the prospect we have to face, and  there  is no way of preventing a decline of employment except so long as this country is capable of finding these vast sums for expenditure on war, the outlook is bad indeed. The unemployment returns by trade unions show a steady increase of unemployment between February, 1938, and August, 1939. These figures are not my own; they are supplied hy the Commonwealth Statistician, who is paid by the Commonwealth Government not to put out political propaganda hut to tell the truth about matters which come under his scrutiny. The Statistician's figures show that unemployment increased from 8 per cent, in February, 1938, to 10.4 per cent, in August, 1939, and the average for the year 1938-39 was 1.1 per cent, higher than the average for the previous year 1937^38, which was the best year since the peak period of 1931-32. I hope honorable senators will understand what I am driving at. As I have said, the Treasurer claimed that at one stage employment was falling, and I point out that that was while the Government of which he is a member .was in power. The honorable gentleman says that employment is now rising; once again I point out that that is happening while his Government is in control. Employment is rising now. not because of the Government's financial genius or its capacity to provide for the future and ensure that we shall not get into those ever-recurring troughs of depression, but because there is &amp; war on; and God knows what the state of employment would have been had not the people been persuaded by the legislators of this country that the war is the serious matter which we all know it to be. When the Government starts to talk about unemployment, it is my job and the job of every member of the Opposition to show that, to put it mildly, the Government does not know what it is talking about. 
SenatorFoll. - If the honorable senator accepts the Commonwealth Statistician's figures with regard to unemployment why does he not accept them with regard to the cost of living? 
That is a very reasonable question. No doubt the Minister will have an opportunity to reply to the speech which I am delivering. I suggest that if he has some statistics which refute my arguments - not arguments which he puts up merely to knock down - I shall be prepared to listen to him and make a public apology should he prove that I am wrong. He must, however, deal with what I am saying and not with what he thinks I ought to have said. 
In regard to the banking position the Treasurer made a very erudite statement - 
The favorable change which has taken place from Septemberto March is due mainly to (a) better export prices and more rapid payment to producers for their exports, (b) increased defence expenditure financed directly or indirectly through the banking system. 
That is only repeating what I have said. He said further - . 
The effect of this improved liquidity- 
I must admit I do not know what he means, but it sounds nice - has been that the banks have been able to support a continuous business extension and at the same time make substantial contributions to Government loans. It is obvious, therefore, that the apparent prosperity and business extension is dependent upon the existence and continuance of a state of war. Better export prices and rapid payment to producers are both due to the temporary (and what would be in ordinary times artificial ) measures which have been taken to meet the war situation. The increased defence expenditure also, ofcourse, is a direct result of the war. 
My comment on that is that it is apparent that the prosperity of business is dependent on the existence and continuance of a state of war, and nothing more. That is something which I invite the Minister to controvert with statistics. The Treasurer himself admits that what I am saying is true. In other words it means that there is no hope for this country; no chance of proper development; no chance of mobilizing our raw material and man-power in the interests of the nation except while the war continues. I deny that emphatically. I say that we can have prosperity in this country, we can finance our war commitments, and we can prevent a depression after the war if only the Government will get away from its orthodox method of finance, which if continued, will ruin this and every other country. The day for orthodoxy in finance has passed, but apparently this Government has not awakened to that fact. Eventually we shall be forced to get our heads out of the sand and abandon this ostrich-like attitude - the ignoring of facts which should be apparent to even the meanest intelligence. Let us look for a few moments at the list of our future requirements. I accept the figures which the Treasurer has given in his financial statement with regard to our war commitments for the next twelve months. I note also that he warns us that the proposals submitted are only temporary, and do not include provision for heavy war expenditure overseas. Let us see what this Government has proposed to do in borrowing and taxation. The Treasurer has told us, and I do not dispute his statement, that £50,000,000 is the maximum amount which can be borrowed for war purposes between now and the end of June, 1941. He says further that this amount, with additional taxes amounting to £20,000,000 will increase the total war liability of the Commonwealthto £70,000,000 in that period. We on this side hope that the Government will get the money, though we do not agree with the methods to be employed for raising it. We say that the Government should seek an expansion of credit through the Commonwealth Bank and we believe that it could make more extensive use of this method without endangering the financial stability of the nation. We have to remember that the circumstances at the beginning of this war are entirely different from those existing at the beginning of the Great War in 1914-18. The public debt of the Commonwealth and the States then amounted to £329,000,000. To-day it totals £1,295,000,000- four times greater than the public debt at the beginning of the last war. Surely it is agreed that, with a public debt of such dimensions, it will not be so easy now to raise money by public loans as it was in 1914-18, when the total Commonwealth debt was only £300,000,000? I am afraid that the Government has overlooked this significant fact. I know, of course, that any protest which We on this side may make with respect to war finance will be so much time wasted, because the Government has no intention of taking notice of our warnings. It is high time that the Ministry realized the seriousness of the position. The issue involved is not Labour's financial policy as compared with the policy of the Government. The plain fact is that it is a physical impossibility for the government of a country having a population of only 7,000,000 to go on indefinitely increasing the public debt by £1,000,000,000 every quarter of a century. This business of piling up our public debt must stop sooner or later, and it might as well stop now. I am well aware, of course, that, from the Government's point of view, the situation calls for the imposition of higher taxes. At the moment the incidence of taxation is heavier in some quarters than it was during the last war, but in some quarters also it is not so heavy as it ought to be. May I say here, in parenthesis as it were, that I do not wish any honorable senators supporting the Government to charge me and my colleagues with the desire to " soak " the rich. We know very well that whilst " soaking " the rich may be entirely sound and safe up to a certain point, there comes a stage at which that policy will defeat itself, because taxation beyond a recognized capacity to bear it will stop the wheels of industry and make our last state worse than our first. 
The Government proposes to impose new forms of taxes on companies for the purpose of getting additional revenue from this source. I have noticed that whenever discussion takes place on this subject and whenever the incidence of taxation in Queensland is mentioned, our political opponents, by interjections which evidence their ignorance of the subject, tell us that Queensland is the most highly-taxed State in the Com- monwealth. That, of course, is not true, and I take this opportunity to say a word in defence of the State which I assist to represent in this chamber. It is true that in Queensland incomes in excess of £1,000 a year are taxed more heavily than in any other part of Australia. I am proud of that fact. But it is also true that in Queensland, incomes below £1,000 a year are taxed more lightly than in any other State. I invite the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  to turn to the Commonwealth Statistician for the figures, and try to knock that one over. 
Queensland taxation authorities leave the municipal councils to deal with the lower incomes; 
-I do not agree with the honorable senator, but since he has mentioned the part played by municipal bodies in Queensland I take this opportunity to say that the Brisbane City Councilj which no doubt the honorable  Senator had  in mind, is administering the largest municipal area in the world. It has the widest charter of any municipality in the world, and it administers such functions as lighting, water supply, transport and sewerage, which usually are conducted by separate authorities. It is true that Brisbane has its £1,000,000 city hall; but I and other Queenslanders take some pride in the fact that, unlike the building which houses the Commonwealth Parliament, it has been well constructed, and we do not have the spectacle of plaster falling from the ceiling at frequent intervals owing to" jerry building " which was so rife in Canberra in its early days. We have also had something tosay on many occasions about the Brisbane Post Office, which is a standing disgrace to the Commonwealth Government. I am afraid that it will be a standing disgrace for many years, because a long time will elapse before any money will be available for other' than the Commonwealth war activities. But I am digressing. The Government is proposing something with regard to the company taxation. The war-timecompanytax, it is estimated, will yield an additional revenue of £5,300,000 of which £4,250,000 will be collected in this financial year. The Government also expectsto obtain £575,000 from thetax on undistributed profits,of which £450,000 will bc collected in this financial year. From time to time. I take the trouble to read the financial columns of a number of leading Australian newspapers, and I have been impressed by the generally expressed opinion that the Government has dealt very lightly with some companies which show profits amounting to hundreds of thousands of pounds. I could suggest to the Government a very easy way of getting from these wealthy concerns a much larger proportion of tax revenue than is proposed. 
We are told that the rates of income tax on individuals are to be increased, and it is expected to get an additional £3,000,000 from this source in the next financial year. If there is one form of tax of which I approve it is the tax on incomes, but I distinguish between incomes earned and incomes received. I point out that the Government is not doing the right thing in this regard. T consider this the most vulnerable aspect of the Government's tax proposals. 
I invite honorable senators to examine, the methods proposed by the Government for' raising an increased amount of £1,500,000 from the land tax in this financial year. Stated in that bald fashion, people unfamiliar with the true position would believe that the Government proposes to raise an additional £1,500,000 by means of the tax on land. I do not wish to be charged with unfair criticism of the Government's proposals, but these are the facts with regard to the land tax: In 1932- 33 the Lyons Government reduced the rate of tax by one-third, the amount remitted totalling £825,000. In 1933-34 it made a further reduction of 16$ per cent., representing a further remission of £500,000. Tn 1934-35, the two previous reductions were increased to a total reduction of 50. per cent. ; in other words, from 1932 to 1935 the land tax was halved. Tn. 1934-35, the total reduction was £1,281,000; in 1935-36, £1,327,000; in 1936-37, £1,435,000; in 1937-38, £1,368,000, and in 1938-39, £1,144,000. The total remission in seven years was £8,705,000. What a different complexion those figures put on the boast of the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  that the Government proposes to take an extra £1,500,000 in land tax in the next twelve months! The Government merely proposes to take back a sum equivalent to one year's reduction. Who pays the land tax? The totals of improved and unimproved land values are approximately the same, yet the city land-owners pay two-thirds of the land tax, which serves to prove that the owners of city land, which is subject to the federal land tax, are wealthy persons holding lands of great value. 
Exactly ; the companies to whom the Government has made a present of £8,700,000 in the last seven years. Yet the Government makes a claim to righteousness for the re-imposition to the amount of £1,500,000 of a tax that in previous years had been remitted. The Opposition may be expected to throw its hat into the air and cheer, but it keeps before its eyes the eloquent figures of earlier concessions to wealthy city landlords. No struggling farmer pays federal land tax, because of the exemption of land not having an unimproved value in excess of £5,000. On a property valued at £20,000, with improvements valued at £8,000, the tax in 1932 would have been £16 a year, whilst in respect of a property valued at £8,000, with improvements amounting to £3,000, no tax would have been payable. The people who will benefit mostare the banking institutions, whose city properties are increasing in value to a remarkable degree, the insurance companies, the shipping and commercial companies, the land mortgage companies, and the great city proprietary stores. The Opposition has protested strongly against remissions of the land tax. 
We do not wish in one budget to dry up all of our reservoirs. 
Every one of them wil.1 be "soaked". 
A worker with a taxable income of £350 a year will have to "pay a 5 per cent, increase of tax under the present proposals of the Government. On a taxable income of £400 a year, the  increase  of tax will be 66 per cent., and on an income of £500, it will be 25 per cent. When the taxable income rises to £4,000 a year, the increase will drop to 2.7 per cent., and on £5,000 a year to 1.7 per cent. ' As we go up the scale we see how the magnanimity of the Government is extended to its friends. When the income reaches £10,000 a year, the increase is 3.7 per cent., and at £40,000 a year the taxpayer is let off with an increase of 3 per cent. 
Will the honorable senator state the amount of tax each of these classes pays in the £1? 
A fundamental principle of honest taxation is that the burden should be placed fairly and equitably on the shoulders best able to bear it, but the Government is doing the very opposite. From the ranks of the poor it will draw t lie blood, as well as much of the treasure, necessary for the conduct of the war.  Lt  was stated in this chamber yesterday that I have been unfair in remarking that S3 per cent, of the volunteers for service overseas come from the homes of the workers. It was made to appear that I had suggested that no volunteers for military service have come from the homes of the well-to-do; but I said nothing of the kind. I know men in my own State, and in my own town, who have volunteered,  and whose parents are wealthy. What I did say is perfectly true. I pointed out that 85 per cent, of the fighting forces abroad ave drawn from the homes of the working classes. I refer not only to manual toilers, but also to whitecollar men who work in offices. In brief, 
I referred to the income taxpayers in the lower grades,- and, in the last analysis, those who escape the penalty of the supreme sacrifice will be called upon to provide by their toil the wherewithal to enable the government of the country to be carried on. The war loans will be subscribe mainly by the well-to-do people, and the Government is making them free of Commonwealth income tax. There is need for ever-increasing revenue, yet the Government restricts the taxable field by continuing tax-free loans. Thi; whole thing is so serious that it is a tragedy. I become more and more amazed, as time goes on, at the tolerance of the Opposition and the fatuity of the Government's action which, we are told, is inevitable. 
I now wish to refer to the sales tax in respect of which nine bills were introduced into the Senate to-night. The Treasurer said that it is anticipated that during 1940-41 this tax will yield £18,000,000. The Opposition in this chamber does not believe that indirect taxes should be imposed if they can be avoided. The Government has a perfect right to raise revenue by direct taxation, but when it gives an account of its stewardship it must show why it needs the money, and the way in which the  revenue  is to be expended. The raising of £18,000,000 in this financial year by means of the sales tax, is grossly  unjus-because  it is upon those in receipt of the lower incomes that practically  all  of this impost will fall. I give credit for what has been done in removing the sales tax from a number of commodities, including foodstuffs, all of which, of course, have to be purchased by the poorer sections of the community. But surely the Government will not claim any credit for removing the tax from the necessaries of life 
Do I. appear to be one of those simple individuals who can be led up the garden path and left there? The Treasurer estimates that the additional revenue to be obtained from taxes this financial year will be £20,000,000, of which £10,300,000 will be the proceeds of indirect taxes, and £9,700,000 from direct taxes. For reasons which I have already given, the figures ought to be the other way round, and even then they would not be very attractive. I again remind the Government that indirect taxes are paid largely by those in receipt of small incomes. I now wish to cite a paragraph which appeared in that reliable paper - the  Canberra Times. 
I do not think that any one has ever heard me speak disparagingly of the  Canberra Times.  At least, it is not a syndicate newspaper, and at times it tells the Government some home truths. The paragraph reads - 
The Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland,has received complaints regarding substantial increases in the price of fuel stoves and primus stoves in Sydney. 
I was in Sydney when the restrictions on the use of gas and electricity were imposed, and I saw housewives raiding stores for primus and methylated spirit stoves, which, 24 hours after the restrictions were imposed, were unobtainable. The paragraph continued - 
The investigations show that as a result of the heavy demand all stocks of stoves had been cleared, and traders were selling new stocks which had been landed at a higher price. Inquiries disclosed that the landed cost increased the price by60 per cent. as compared with the pre-war price, but he reminded traders that their price must be based on landed costs plus a normal profit margin. 
He knew perfectly well that a lot of old stock was sold at inflated prices. 
I have great respect for the Assistant Minister, but I know how easily he would be deceived if he met the thimble and pea man at the corner of the street. If he believes that old stocks were not sold at the prices of new stocks he is too credulous for this hard world. 
It is sad, depressing and highly discreditable that members of the Senate should think that the people can be deceived by sophistry such as that contained in the financial statement now before the Senate. I am not opposing the appropriation of the amount proposed to be sought - we have not done so since the outbreak of war - but the Government is faced with one of the most serious problems which any government has had to solve. The war has to be fought and won, and financial provision has to be made, not only for the present but also for the future. The whole problem appears to me one that could easily be solved and understood; but I know that it is not understood by this Government, which adheres to the orthodox methods of finance. The members of the Government are not heartless and soulless, but they are totally ignorant of the problem confronting them. They know that prices of commodities cannot be raised without the cost of living also being raised. The Government knows that the cost of living is increasing. Recently I cited detailed figures showing the degree to which the prices of ordinary commodities required by the community every day have increased. 
No, ordinary requirements. The prices of every-day commodities are increasing rapidly, and with an increase of the sales tax and customs and excise duties, further increases can be expected. We hear from time to time of contractors who fail to fulfil their obligations and of miners and others who strike for improved conditions. It was said last night that honorable senators on this side of the chamber have not done anything to bring about a settlement of the coal strike. Those who made such statements knew that they were not in accordance with facts, because in Sydney to-day members of the Opposition in both Houses of this Parliament a re using all the power at their command to bring this unfortunate dispute to a satisfactory conclusion. We have to remember that we are here to protect and serve those who have only their labour-power to sell; the full burden has to be borne by them. We are also told that we cannot have arbitration when it suits us and discard it when it does not. I should like my friends opposite to remember that any award made by any arbitrator in this country - where the system has been developed more successfully than in any other country - is broken immediately it is made by the people who supply the commodities which the people must have in order to live. When the court awards an increase of wages of, say, 5s. a week, the landlord and the supplier of commodities immediately - not next week or the week after - nullify that contract by progressively taking back that increase from the worker. It may be said that the worker's standard of living is raised a little, because whereas he previously paid; 9d. for an article he can now purchase a better one for1s. 6d. Very soon, however, he is back to " taws ", and his struggle to secure a decent standard remains just as severe. In spite of these facts, however, honorable senators opposite still indulge in sophistry on this subject. 
I thank honorable senators for granting me an extension of time. I conclude as I began, by saying that in every remark I have made to-night I have endeavoured to reply to the question which I asked myself when I was preparing my speech : What is best for Australia? This war must end some day. Every 24 hours, whether it brings discouraging or encouraging news, must obviously bring 24- hours nearer the conclusion of the present struggle.I hope, and I am sure every honorable senator hopes as fervently asI do, that the war will be brought to a. successful conclusion. By that I mean that the democratic principles for which we stand as part of the British Commonwealth of Nations will eventually emerge triumphant from this struggle. Each of us has a great responsibility to see that in the fight that must be put up for the preservation of our democratic ideals, we do not allow ourselves to be stampeded into a course of government conduct, financial or otherwise, which would destroy those ideals in our own country, with the result that, even though we won the war, we lost the peace. Those ideals are worth fighting for. When the war ends, defence expenditure will cease. Yet there is nothing in the Government's proposals, or in the Treasurer's financial statement, to show that the Government is aware of the tremendous depression that will then descend upon this community. Let me point out what will happen. An immediate and incessant demand will be made for an increase of wages in order to enable the worker to catch up the time lag which always occurs between cost of living and wages. An immediate and incessant demand will be made for developmental works to be undertaken with the object of not only decreasing unemployment, or preventing its increase, but also carrying on the ordinary development which is so essential to this young nation. We shall be told then - there is not the slightest doubt about it - that we are practically bankrupt, because of our tremendous expenditure on war. We shall be told that we must be satisfied, that wc cannot have new schools or new hospitals. 
Well, we had a serious depression from 1929 to 1932. 
It was the result of bur having to pay for four years' destruction of wealth. . We cannot have our cake and eat it; too, even in this  glorious  country. Flamboyant statements were made in this chamber not so long ago that we had emerged from the valley of depression on to the sunlit hills of prosperity. Where are the sunlit hills of prosperity? Look at the congestion in our public hospitals in Sydney and Melbourne to-day. Only in to-day's press, appears a picture of a baby being bathed in an enamel basin which was the only bath left available for infants in the biggest public hospital in Sydney because of serious overcrowding. That was the only facility which could be provided, in that huge institution for the bathing of an innocent infant, who had not asked to be born into this world, and who is in no way responsible for war or the evil sys tem under which we live. I am emphasizing what will happen in this country at the conclusion of this conflict as the result of our huge war expenditure. When thai day comes, honorable senators opposite will not say that the internal war about which I spoke a fortnight ago - the war against unemployment, poverty, economic insecurity, over-crowding in our schools and hospitals, and neglect of health and physical and mental culture - evils which are evident to some degree even in this glorious city of Canberra - must be fought. On the contrary, we shall be told that nothing can be done to wage that war. We are behind the Government in its prosecution of the external war, and we shall do everything in our power to help it in that effort, but honorable senators opposite will not help us to fight the internal war either now or when the present conflict ends. 
-Senator Dein has attempted to spoil my concluding remarks. I am beginning to think that he believes that I would be an acquisition to the Government. However, I have long felt confident that the honorable senator would not be such an acquisition, and I do not like his chances of being taken into the Government. 
Let me reiterate what I have already said. A depression greater than any which honorable senators opposite have ever visualized is ahead of us; yet the Treasurer's financial statement does not contain one ray of hope concerning it. If the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  had been through the shadows of depression as I have been through them at various stages of my life, and had experienced the hardship, toil, low wages and rotten industrial conditions which I have experienced, he would not be so flippant 'in dealing with this subject. It is not a matter of pessimism, but a matter of hard, cold, physical fact. We cannot spend £100,000,000 this year, and more next year, and go on destroying wealth, and, at the same time, escape paying for it. It has to be paid for, and when that day of reckoning dawns I shall remind honorable senators, if I am fortunate enough to be still a member of this chamber, of my remarks to-night. I know that my prediction will be proved true. When that day comes honorable senators opposite, or their political successors, will say that our resources have been exhausted, and that the demand which I now make for the settlement of t he internal war cannot be met. We shall not then have the help of those honorable senators. Neither they nor their political predecessors have given their help in the past in that direction, and we do not expect it from them in the future. We lave at least obeyed the Prime Minister's injunction to carry on business as usual; but business has not been carried on as usual. We know that prices are rising higher and higher. The right honorable gentleman also said that he did not want a muzzled Opposition. The only reason why the Labour party will not participate in the formation of a national government is because we believe that we can best discharge our responsibility and fulfil our duty to this nation by remaining as a virile Opposition, prepared to offer honest and sincere, though devastating, criticism of the Government's proposals. 
I congratulate -the Government upon the foundation which it has laid for the very heavy taxation that has now to be borne in order to enable us to prosecute our war effort. All sections of the community have received this budget with the conviction that although the taxation is extraordinarily heavy it represents a burden which every person must willingly carry if we are to put forward our maximum effort. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said that he did not want it to be understood that he was advocating a policy of " soaking" the rich. He said that he fully appreciated  that there were limits to the imposition of taxes on higher incomes. 1 believe, and I think that every honorable senator believes, that the broadest shoulders should carry the greatest share of this additional taxation. However, it is very unfair of the honorable senator to bring forward calculations and figures in an endeavour to suggest that we in Australia are not placing the greatest share of this burden on the broadest shoulders. If he had pointed out that the wealthiest individuals in the community already pay as "much tax as 16s. out of every £1 of income earned, the utter impossibility of increasing by 50 per cent, the taxes already borne by such persons would have been obvious. Even the Leader of the Opposition will admit that no person can pay 22s. 6d. tax out of every £1 of income earned. Consequently, although I do not disagree for one moment with the general principles set out by the honorable senator as to the basis upon which taxes should be levied, I ask him particularly in the present crisis, when, above all, we need unity and fairness, not to quote inaccurate statistics for the purpose df misleading the general public, but to state the facts. In his financial statement the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  said that if an all-round increase of tax had been imposed, certain persons would have been asked to pay 12s. 9d. in the £1 federal tax and 8s. in the £1 State tax, and he pointed out how utterly impossible it was for any Government to take 20s. 9d. by way of tax out of every £1 of income. I ask the Leader of the Opposition to use statistics of this kind fairly and in a way which will enable the general public to understand the facts.  The honorable senator also endeavoured to show that prices are rising in spite of the Government's price fixation regulations. The figures of the Commonwealth Statistician which he quoted show that the prices of locally-produced goods have been lower since the price-fixing commission came into operation than they were in the corresponding months of last year. How does this compare with what happened in this respect in the last war? On that occasion we had steep increases of prices, but to-day, in spite of the war, prices of locally-produced goods have not risen, but fallen. Admittedly, prices of imported goods have risen, but as honorable senators realize, we have virtually no control over those prices. Taking the whole range of' imported and locallyproduced goods, the total increase of prices  has been . only 5 ' per cent., which represents a considerable im'provement upon what, has happened in any other country. When we were last considering the finances of the country we realized that we were facing a crisis. In this war we are confronted by the largest and" best-equipped army and air force in the world. To-day the situation is serious indeed. We are facing an enemy who is far more formidable than we imagined even-a few months ago, and the safety of every part of the Empire is at stake. At any moment an attack may be launched on Great Britain itself. It is even possible that an attack upon Australia may not be very far distant. In view of these things, I believe the time for complete mobilization has arrived. The Government should call up for national service all men between the ages of 18 and 60 years, and decide the particular branch of service in which each man can best be employed. Those trained in our fighting services should be mobilized; others should be trained. Technicians should he drafted into munitions and other similar services ; those skilled in distribution should be employed in services of supply. Further, the Government should consider immediately the working of three shifts a day in munitions establishments and war industries. We can no longer afford to proceed leisurely; we must expedite our industries and work our plants to full capacity. Money considerations should be no bar to our war effort. The maximum of our effort should be limited only by Australia's total wealth and resources, which runs into many hundreds of millions of pounds. It would be far better to lose the whole of our wealth, rather than lose our liberty. If we lose the war we shall lose not only our wealth, but also our liberty. To allow industrial troubles to interfere in the present crisis, is to allow action to defeat our war effort. I urge the Government to take immediate action to obtain the supplies of coal which are essential to defence. I am sure that if the Government tells the people that our war industries are held up and calls for volunteers to serve in the production of coal for the duration of- the war thousands of offers of assistance will be received from patriotic workers. The people of this country are loyal and are prepared to serve the nation by producing coal, or in any other way. Those who impede our war effort should be interned immediately. We have to fight the enemy within as well as the enemy without. If we are half-hearted in our efforts, and are not prepared to take strong measures in this time of emergency, we are courting disaster. We are facing a ruthless foe; if we are strong we can defeat that foe, but if we are weak, we shall be defeated. The time has passed for oversensitiveness. We have to face an unscrupulous enemy and we must show strength, courage and determination. We must proceed immediately with the marshalling of the whole of our man-power and resources. 
I mean capital, man-power, industry, and everything else that is necessary to a war effort. It is disgraceful that we should be borrowing money from Great Britain when it is facing the greatest crisis in its history. Australia is a wealthy country, and is able to finance the war from its own resources. At present we are importing millions of pounds' worth of goods which are unnecessary. With the money which at present is being used to purchase those commodities we could he assisting Great Britain, rather than borrowing money from that country. I have here a list of commodities which were imported last year. These commodities are typical of imports which Australia could easily do without. The list includes salmon, imported mainly from Japan, Russia, the United States of America and Canada, and valued at £571,000 ; sardines imported mainly from Portugal, £145,000; sausage casings, imported from the United States of America, £210,000; cocoa-butter, £117,000; tobacco, £1,750,000. We can and must go without many of these things. 
Probably we could, but whether we could or not, the time has arrived when we should prohibit their importation, in order to assist our war effort. 
I am not concerned with what the Scullin Government did. I am looking to the future, not to the past. We are in the midst of a war and we must win it. The Government should immediately place an embargo on the importation of all foodstuffs and clothing from non-sterling countries. 
In conclusion, I should like to summarize the suggestions which I have .put forward. I have not submitted my proposals in a captious spirit. In this time of crisis there should be national unity; everybody should be prepared to help the Government to win this war, and if we can make suggestions which may be of help to the Government, it is our duty to do so. My suggestions are constructive and are made in the hope that they may he of some use, because I fear that the people of Australia do not realize the magnitude of the crisis with which we are faced. We must be prepared to marshal all our resources. I again urge the Government to call up immediately, under the powers conferred upon it by the Defence Act, all men between the ages of 18 and 60 years, for national service. These men should be employed in the arm of the service for which their qualifications best fit them. Those not engaged in actual military service should be employed in the production of munitions, foodstuffs, clothing, and other war essentials. In this hour of need all men, old and young, should be called up to assist our war effort. 
I say that the call should be made under the powers of the Defence Act which was passed by this Parliament as far back as 1903, and endorsed subsequently by every other parliament. That act provides that all men between the ages of 18 and 60 years are liable to serve within Australia. 
For home service. Under the provisions of the Defence Act the Government has already called up the compulsory trainees now serving with the Militia. In my opinion, compulsory training should not be limited to hoys between the ages of 18 and 21 years ; every 
Australian should be called up. Honorable senators opposite apply the word " conscription " because it is an odious term. I did not use it. I said that all men between the specified age limits should be called up for national service within Australia. I think that Australians would welcome an opportunity to serve their country in this time of crisis. 
The second matter which I urge upon the Government is the adoption, in defence industries, of three shifts instead of one. I do not think the statement that technicians cannot be procured is correct. If industries were properly organized technicians could be obtained. In many towns there are five motor garages despite the fact that all the work could be done by one, and the skilled mechanics in the other four could serve in essential industries. 
All persons aiding the enemy .by impeding our war effort, whether that enemy be within Australia or without, should be interned immediately. We are being far too sentimental in this regard. We have seen the effect of the fifth column,  in  Norway and Holland. The independence of both these countries has been lost because they did not tackle the enemy within. I do not know if there are many enemies within Australia, but if there are any at all they should be placed in internment camps. 
I believe the present crisis is sufficiently serious to warrant strengthening of our home defence. We should be prepared to meet the menace of a possible attack by aeroplanes or by parachute troops. Let; us imagine for one moment that an enemy landed, say, 500 troops in a fairly remote part of Australia - troops as brave as those which have been landed by  the  Germans in other parts of Europe. Such men virtually constitute suicide squads. They are almost certain to be wiped out, but they are able to cause tremendous damage before they are detected and dealt with. By such methods as the arming of police Australia should take steps to prevent the occurrence of such an invasion: We could also reinforce the police force with armed militiamen. Germany has now overrun Holland; to our immediate north are two colonies of the  Netherlands %  Empire, the Dutch East Indies and Dutch New Guinea. What attitude will Ger- many take towards these colonies 1 I was glad to see the statement by the Queen of Holland and by the Netherlands Government that the fight with Germany will bo continued. Will Germany recognize that, or will it say that Holland having been captured, its colonics belong to the victor! If by any chance German leaders laid claim to that portion of the Netherlands possessions immediately to our north, we should immediately realize that the war had been brought to our doorstep. I therefore ask the Government to consider whether we should not prepare to meet invasion by parachute troops, or by raiders. Our military authorities have advised that a largescale attack upon Australia is most improbable, but they recognize that an attack by raiders, or perhaps by parachute troops, is a possibility. In the light of existing facts, it is imperative that the whole of our defence organizations should be reviewed, in order to ensure the maximum use of our. resources of man-power to protect this country. The next point I make is that the Government should immediately prohibit the importation from non-sterling countries of all goods that are not necessary for our war effort. My last point is that we should work the coal-mines immediately, and not delay further with conferences between employer and employee. Our immediate need is to get coal for our war effort. 
 'Would the honorable senator care to work in a coal-mine? 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Darcey)  adjourned.- 
Accompanied by honorable senators, I, this day,  waited  upon the Governor-General and presented to him the Address-in-Reply to  His  Excellency's Speech on the occasion of the opening of Parliament, agreed to by the Senate on the 14th May.  His Excellency  was  pleased to  make  the  following reply. - 

 Mr. President, 

I desire to thank you forthe AddressinReply, which you have just presented to me. 
It will afford me much pleasure to convey  to  His  Most  Gracious Majesty The King  the  message of loyalty from the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, to which  the  Address gives expression. 
In view of the statements made recently by the Minister for Commerce with regard to the wheat industry, suggesting the necessity for a restriction of production, will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state whether power will be taken under the National Security Act to formulate a stabilization plan that will ensure the safety of the wheat industry and give to the farmers a reasonable standard of living? 
That matter is under the consideration of the Government at the present time. 
Sena tor ARMSTRONG asked the- Minister representing : the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact that a mice plague is  attacking  wheat stacks inthe country districts  of  New, South Wales? 2.If  so,whatstepshavebeen  taken to remedy the position? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Mice have greatlyincreased in numbers in parts of New South Wales, and. wheat stacks at some stations have been attacked by them. 
Supervision is being maintained over all stocks in mice-infested areas. Precautions to keep mice out are being rigorously observed, and any stacks to which mice gain ingress are promptly treated with Cyanogas. Every action practicable to minimise damage is being taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Minister's recent advice to wheat-growers voluntarily to reduce their production of wheat by cropping reduced areas and cutting morehay - 
Has the Government decided to acquire  the coining harvest? 
Why was notwheatcompulsorily acquired for the period of the war, as  were' other primary products? 
Hasthe Government received an offer from the Australian Wheat-growers  Federation to co-operate in devising a marketing scheme and stabilizing  the industry? 
If so, what action has been taken  towards the acceptance of this publicspiritedoffer? 2.Can the Minister in any way 'allay the uneasiness... exiting, amongst wheat-growers withregardtotheir next crop,  which  is, said to have been accentuated by his recent statement? 
(a)A decision onthis question has not been made. 
The'decision to acquire  the  1939-40 cropland todefer a decision in regard to later ' crops, was governed by a consideration of  the  general wheat position. Circumstances vary with different products and each  one  must be considered separately. 
and  (d)  The Australian Wheat-growers Federation' has expressed its - desire to cooperate with the . Government on measures necessary for wheat stabilization. The Minister for Commerce has to-day discussed the matter with representatives of the federation.- 
The Minister's recent statement was intended to bring some important facts to the attention of wheat-growers. Further facts will be brought to their notice whenever necessary,and, if advice is taken, the need for uneasinees will be greatly decreased. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice- 
Is it a fact that appraisers of German birth are handling Australian wool clips? 
If; so. have any stops been taken to remove such persons ? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : -  l and' 2.470 appraisers are employed by the Central Wool Committee, This number includes three persons born in Germany ofGerman parents, who have been naturalized British subjects and resident in Australia for varying periods. This matter . is at present the subject of consultation with the Central Wool Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the . Minister for Commerce,  upon notice- . 
On what dates were the marine radio beacons installed on the Victorian coast? 
Have reports been received from shipmasters as to the efficacy of these beacons? ' 
Has consideration been given to the question of installing other beacons on the Australian coast? 
In view of the largeincrease of shipping using the port of Fremantle, and waters adjacent thereto,' will beacons be erectedsoon on the Western Australian coast? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers: - 
One radio beacon was installed at Cape Otway, Victoria, on the 29th June, 1938. 
Yes. Many reports indicating the efficiency and utility of the beacon have been received from shipmasters. 3.Yes. New beacons will be installed at Cape Schanck, Victoria, and Cape Wickham, King Island, Tasmania, in the near future to form a network with the beacon already established at Cape Otway. 
It is the intention, when the financial position permits, to install further beacons at other salient points on the Australian coast. The necessity for a beacon at Rottnest Island andat other points on the Western Australian const will be considered. 
What sum has been allocated by the Government for the purpose of assisting in the discovery and development of new gold mines? 
How is this assistance to be allocated as between States, and under what conditions? 
Have any applications for this assistance been received from any of the State governments or individuals? 
What amount of assistance has been given to date? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Assuming that an allocationfrom the gold  tax  is referred to, nil. 
See answer to No. 1. 
No, but the Premier of Western Australia has asked for a portion of the gold tax to be made available to the State for the purposes of advances to mining interests in order to increase the gold output, and conditionally upon the advances being repaid from gold won with interest and, pending repayment, full security to be given by the assisted parties ; in addition, requests have been received from mining interests for rebates and exemptions from gold tax and for loans for development purposes. 
Nil, but the matter is under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Has the representative of the Minister for Supply and Development, who recently visited Perth to inquire into the local production of defence and government supplies, yet tendered his report? 
When will a copy of this report be available for perusal? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
The officer concerned has not yet submitted his report but will do  so  atan early date. 
When the report is received, consideration will be given the honorable senator's request. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Does the Government propose to modify the Apple and Pear Organization Act to provide: - 
State varietal pools, each State pool to be independent of the others  financially ? 
that recognition will be given to the principle of appraisement according  to values within each State pool? 
that advances paid on fruit not delivered to the State pool will not  be a charge on the pool? 
Before anything is done by the Government to modify the act, will the Government undertake to call a conference of growers only so that the growers may fully represent their case? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  -  1. (a) It is. intended toreconsider the question of State varietal pools in the near future when a review of the financial position of the scheme will be made. 
Any recognition of the principle of appraisement is dependent upon the action taken in regard to State varietal pools. (c)All advances are' recoverable from the proceeds of the realization of the crop. ' It is not proposed to amend the provision. 
It is not proposed to convene a conference of growers to discuss the modification of the regulations in respectof the present crop. The Government has, however, taken action to convene a conference of all interests of the apple and pear industry at Canberra during June. Each State Premier has been requested to arrange for a preliminary meeting in his State, and for the selection of the industry representatives to the general conferencein Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing' the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
What amount has been expended from the allocation of defence money in Western Australia for the financial year 1930-40 to date? 
What amount has been expended from that allocation in Western Australia for. material, labour, &amp;c. ? 
What amount (if any) from the allocation for Western Australia has been expended in other States of the Commonwealth and charged to WesternAustralian defence allocation? 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister for Defence Co-ordinationhas supplied the following answers :  - 
£1,402,473. 

<graphic href="163332194005164_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

Nil. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that fifteen non-returned soldier privates were recently promoted to fill seventeen non-commissioned officer vacancies in the Darwin Patrol, now in camp in Melbourne? 
Is it a fact that the strength of the Patrol is91 men, including 15 returned soldiers ? 
How many applications were received from officers with active service to fill the five positions as officers in this Patrol? 
Is it a fact that only one officer who had seen active service was appointed? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  -  1.The numbers required for duty at Darwin included personnel from Permanent Military Forces, Militia Forces, and  from  Garrison Battalions.  A  total of seventeen noncommissioned officers was required - fifteen for service with Militia and two forservice with the Garrison Detachment. Generally speaking, non-commissioned officers were appointed in the ranks in which they were serving in  the  Militia. In other eases men who had qualified for promotion in their Militia units were promoted to the ranks for which they  were  qualified. The proportion of returned soldiers in the Militia quota is not known but it wouldbe small. The non-commissioned officers of the Garrison Detachment are of course re turned soldiers. 
The quota from Southern Command comprises 7 officers and 95 other ranks, all of whom were already serving - 8 in the Permanent Forces, 17 in Garrison Battalions and 77 in the Militia. 3 and 4. Six positions were filled by Militiaofficers already serving, one of whom had active service. The other vacancy was filled by a GarrisonBattalion officer, who is a returned soldier. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that powdered milk is supplied to troops at the Northam camp and other camps in Western Australia? 
If so, in view of the plentiful supply of fresh milk, will the Minister give consideration to the use of such in the various camps so as to assist the local producers? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. Milk, powdered and condensed, is issued to all troops for three main reasons - 
To accustom cooks, caterers and troops toits proper use in view of the fact that in war it will be the only type of milk available. 
As milk is particularly liable to absorb germs which spread certain diseases, notably typhoid and intestinal disorders, medical authority has urged extreme caution in the supply of milk unless delivery can be assured perfectly fresh and under hygienic conditions, and unless adequate facilities exist in camp for its inspection and protection. 
Until refrigeration was available to ensure the preservation of milk and until the Inspection Branch of the Supplies Service had been organized, fresh milk was not purchased. 
In so far as is practicable and when adequate facilities for safeguards exist, fresh milk is now being supplied in increasing quantities but certain quantities of the dried and condensed forms must always be used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
Has the Commonwealth Government appointed a Commonwealth Medical Referee in every town or city in Tasmania? 
If not, are there any Commonwealth medical referees in Tasmania; if so, how many are there? 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answers :  -  1 and 2. Apart from the work of the medical staff attached to the Repatriation Commission, medical referees are under engagement to the Pensions Office and the Commonwealth Public Service Board, in Tasmania, at 51 and 31 centres, respectively. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Has the Government accepted any tenders yet forflax fibre and tow?' 
If so, at what price per ton? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: -  1 and 2. Tenders have been invited for the supply of flax fibre and tow, but so far no tender has been accepted. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact that there is  a  shortage of stocks of ammunition held by local storekeepers in Tasmania for the needs of hunters for the coming open game season? 
If so, will the Minister give an assurance that sufficient stocks of ammunition will be made available to meet their requirements? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
I am not in possession of any data regarding stocks of ammunition held by local storekeepers in Tasmania. 
As it is of vital importance that every round of small arm ammunition held by the Commonwealth Government be conserved for the fighting services it is quite definite that sales of . 303 in. ammunition for commercial purposes cannotbe authorized during the present war. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
If a person has a net private income of over £400 per annum, does he have to pay tax on military pay, and wife and child allowance, once he joins (a) the Militia, (b) the Australian Imperial Force, or (c) the Royal Australian Air Force - even though he has not left Australia? 
If his income from the above is derived from several States, does that make any difference for Federal tax? 
I am advised by the Treasurer that the policy in connexion with this matter is receiving consideration by the Government and a further reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
I move as an amendment - 
That all the words after the word " bill " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " should be referred to a royal commission for consideration and report as to the effect of the sugar agreement on - 
1 ) The position of the wage-earners in the    industry. 
As to whether the primary producers-  have benefited, and to what extent, by its operations since 1915. 
As to whether the price of sugar could be reduced to the consumers in Australia. 
The degree to which the Colonial Sugar Refining Companyhas benefited by the agreement." 
Through the bill now before us the Government seeks our approval for the renewal of what is commonly known as the sugar agreement. This  agreement with the Queensland Government, which Las been in operation since 1915, was renewed as from the 18th April, 1940. It covers certain classes of sugar for use in Australia, and for export. It appears that the major alteration is that the conditions previously applied to the State capital cities are to apply to Darwin.I make it clear at the outset, that I have no desire to prejudice any protection which the agreement gives to workers in the industry, the producers of sugar, or manufacturers of canned fruits, who, itis alleged, have benefited under the agreement to date'. A matter that is causing considerable concern throughout the who!" of the States, with the exception of Queensland, is the effect of the operations of this agreement upon the consumers. It is generally believed in most of the States that, whilst some benefit might be derived from the agreement by the workers in the industry, the growers and manufacturers, the great bulk of the benefit has gone to one of the greatest monopolies in Australia, namely, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. It is because of this doubt, and also because since 1915 no effective inquiry has been made into the ramifications of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, that I  hare submitted  my amendment. 
Usually these agreements are presented to Parliament with the enthusiastic support of some sections of the House, and the denunciation of others; but the data that that would provide members of the House with the opportunity to make  a  considered judgment on the question ha&amp; generally been lacking. All that Ave have been told in a vague way, is that the workers in the industry have benefited by the stabilization of their wages, the primary producers by stabilization of the price paid for their raw sugar, and the manufacturing interests by the ' concessions that flow from this legislation; but although these claims have been made, it, lias never been shown that these sections of the community have received from the agreement anything comparable with what' lias been received by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. It is for that reason that I desire the appointment of a royal commission to examine the industry,' and 'to determine whether the producers and consumers have received all or any of the benefits that have been derived from improved methods of cultivation, and refining, or its distribution, and use in the various industries which depend upon it. It appears to  me  that the principles in this agreement are the very same as were rejected in the referendum of the people of Australia quite recently. I refer to the marketing referendum. The principle of the legislation then submitted to the electors was that the Australian consumer should pay an inordinately high price for a commodity produced in Australia in order to compensate for the lower prices received for it in foreign countries. Even in the State of Queensland," which benefits most by this legislation, the referendum proposal was rejected. The first point of interest in the agreement is the fact that the employees in the cane-growing districts shall bp entitled, at all times during the period of- the . agreement to have their rates of; wages and . conditions of employment- determined by conciliation or arbitration, if not settled by agreement; otherwise a tribunal may be established to determine these matters. This is not a new departure. This is a phase of the agreement that has operated for the past 25 years, and it is interesting to see what benefits have accrued to the workers in the industry as a result. 
The Minister stated that the increase of the average of all Commonwealth and State basic wages since 1911 had been 68 per cent., but at the same time he admitted that there had been a 66 per cent, increase of the average retail price of all food and groceries required by those workers; so it cannot be argued that they have very materially benefited by the agreement. 
I come now to the position of the consumer. The- Minister made great play on the fact that under the agreement sugar will be supplied to retailers at Darwin, bringing them under the same conditions as apply to the retailers in all State capital cities of the Commonwealth. He pointed out that in Darwin the public had been charged 5£d. per lb. retail, as compared with 4d. per lb. in State capital cities, and said that from the 1st September, 1941, Darwin retailers will receive supplies at the same prices as are charged to retailers in other capital cities. He also stated that the retailers at Darwin had undertaken to reduce the retail price in due proportion, but I suggest that there is nothing in his speech to indicate that the Commonwealth Government will exercise its powers, either at Darwin or Canberra, to compel retailers to sell at the prices prevailing in the other capital cities. As a matter of fact the Minister indicated that already the retail grocers' associations in the capital cities had asked the Commonwealth Prices Commission for authority to raise the existing price from 4d. per lb. retail to 4 1/2 d. per lb. He has further stated that the agreement under consideration referred only to peace-time conditions, and that the Commonwealth is precluded by the Constitution from fixing in this bill the prices to be charged during- the war by retail grocers to domestic consumers. The Minister pointed out that this power is reserved to each of the States. This is a very frank confession that, whilst the' 
Commonweal th takes the responsibility for passing this agreement, which, it is alleged, will benefit primary producers, the workers, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, and the manufacturers of canned fruits, the Government has not the authority to prevent the grossest exploitation under war conditions. 
What will be the effect of this agreement on the primary producer? It has been in operation for 25 years, and yet the Minister admitted that in the latest annual report of the Queensland Commissioner of Taxes it was shown that 81 per cent. of all the sugar-cane growers had a net taxable income too low to render them liable to pay any income tax at all. That is a remarkable admission on the part of the Minister. During the past 25 years there has been an enormous improvement of the methods of cultivating sugar; the productive capacity of the land has been enormously increased; farming implements have been improved; and yet, in spite of increased and cheaper production, the only result of the operations of the agreement on the financial standing of the cane-growers is that 81 per cent. of them do not secure a taxable income! It will therefore be seen that no great material benefit has been derived by the producers of this primary commodity. 
What is the position of the retailers who, after all have the responsibility of marketing the great bulk of the sugar produced and sold in Australia? It has always been claimed by these people that the margin between the purchase price and the selling price of sugar has not allowed them a reasonable margin of profit. They are caught between two fires : on the one hand, there is the whole- sa le price demanded for sugar by the sugar monopoly, and on the other, the continued pressure by the public for a reduction of the retail price. Although they perform the very important function of retailing the great bulk of our sugar, grocers are denied a reasonable profit. 
The next point I emphasize is the very important part played under this agreement by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. I propose to show by figures which are unimpeachable that this monopoly has amassed great wealth out of the production of refined sugar, and that the growth of its wealth, and the enormous profits it has distributed, have been particularly noticeable between the years 1915 and 1939, during which this agreement has been operating. Although public inquiries into the operation of the sugar combine were held in 1912, 1920, 1922, and 1930, it is obvious that the financial ramifications of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited have never been completely explored. I desire to make a quotation from the  Wildcat Monthly  which traces the history of the growth of this organization, and provides authentic information as to the manner in which its capital has grown, not from actual investments by the shareholders, but, from excess profits exacted from the public in the providing of this necessary commodity. 
The journal states - 
Nominal Capital: £14,000,000 in £20 shares. Paid Capital: £11,700,000 in 585,000 shares fully paid. Cash Bonuses: £528,125. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes)  .  - I propose to allow  Senator Amour  to proceed. 
The quotation continues - 
The Colonial Sugar Refining business was established in 1842 by the late  Sir Edward  Knox. Mills weresubsequently set up on the New South Wales North Coast, and interests were later extended to North Queensland and Fiji and a refinery was erected at Auckland. The present company was registered on July 1, 1887, with a paid capital of £600,000 and £901,300 of stock and debentures, and' absorbed the Victoria Sugar Company Limited and the New Zealand Sugar Company Limited. In 1897 paid capital had expanded to £1,702,000 and Macnade and Hambledon mills and plantations (Queensland, were purchased. In 1899 the company'smills. producedover 100,000 tons of sugar, and two years later the Knockroe mill was purchased to ensure a larger supply of cane to the company's Childers plant. Paid capital moved to the two-million mark in 1903, and in 1907 Poolman's Sydney and Melbourne refineries were purchased; a bonus issue of £75,000 brought capital to £2,500,000. The plant of Hippie Creek mill was purchased at break-up value during the next year, when another bonus issue of £350,000 was made, followed by £150,000 in 1910, and another £250,000 five years later. A subsidiary owned and controlled by the parent took over the Fiji and New Zealand assets, £3,250,000 in 1915, and eight years later went into voluntary liquidation with satisfactory results to the shareholders mid the parent company bo which the assets returned. The Commonwealth Government purchased the Australian sugar output from 1915 to 1921, and the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited handled a lion's share of the business. During the purchase period 1,500,348 tons of sugar was melted at the company's Australian refineries, and the Commonwealth paid the company £3,150,343 refining and distribution costs (including extras) £718,523 selling charges and £1,524,270 for management, depreciation and interest COStS. From 1923 to 1932 the price of raw sugar was fixed by the Sugar Pool at around £27 per ton out of which the.Sugar Board, paid its expenses, and the embargo against the import of foreign sugar has been continued. In November, 1934, £5,850,000 of reserves was capitalized, of which £1,067,000 came from the reserve fund, £883,000 from an undisclosed source -(probably suspense accounts), and £3,957,504 was provided by writing up the book value of some of the assets. 
There are some salient points in this historical record of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited which I desire to emphasize in order to impress the Senate with the contrast between the benefits bestowed by the sugar agreement on the company and those that have been received by the primary producers, workers, manufacturers and consumers of sugar. 
The facts are that this company was originally formed in 1887, with a subscribed capital of £600,000 aud assets in stockland debentures of  £900,000-a  total of £1,500,000. In 1897, the capital was increased to £1,700,000; in 1903, the paid capital was further expanded to £2,000,000, and in the same year bonus shares to the value of £75,000, representing excess profits, were distributed. Later in the same year, a further £850.000 was distributed in bonus shares from excess profits. In 1910, there was a further distribution of bonus shares, totalling £150,000, and in 1.915, the year in which the first sugar agreement was made, a further £250,000 was distributed in bonus shares.  Great as had been the distribution of these shares over a period of years, a still more remarkable distribution took place in 1934, when £5,850,000 of reserves wag capitalized. From this brief recital of the facts relating to the capitalizing of this company it would appear that only £2,500,000 out of a nominal capital of £14,000,000 and a paid-up capital of £11,000,000 has been subscribed by the shareholders, the balance being excess profits that had accumulated even after the payment of dividends ranging from 6-) per cent, to 12^ per cent. 
I have already indicated that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited has been the principal beneficiary under this agreement. This is in part confirmed by a statement in th«  Wildcat Monthly - 
In Australia the sheet-anchor of the company's earnings which accounts for half or more of the total is its contract with the Government for refining, selling, and financing all but a small fraction of the entire Australian crop on a commission basis. 
In further amplification of that fact, I invite the attention of honorable senators to the following figures relating to the financial position of the company in 1915, when the agreement was first signed, and its position in 1939 : - 
In its "unbounded benevolence to th«? Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited this Government, by an amendment of the  Income  Tax Assessment Aci in 1935, gave to shareholders a £7,000,000 Christmas bonus share issue that was immune from taxation. Now it proposes, without a proper and searching inquiry into the effects of the sugar agreement on all parties concerned, to commit the people of this country to a renewal ot the arrangement for a further period of five years. 
I feel sure that an investigation by a. royal commission, clothed with the necessary powers to inquire exhaustively into the benefits conferred by this  agreement  upon the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, as well as to examine the effect of the agreement upon the primary producers, workers in industry, retailers of sugar, and the consumers of that very necessary commodity, will be such a revelation to the people of Australia and to this Parliament that there will be a demand, for a thorough revision of the agreement before any Government would dare, to propose its re-enactment. 

 Senator COURTICE (Queensland; [3.14].: -  Senator Amour  read his speech very, carefully. I noticed that the honorable gentleman did not give expression to any opinions of his own regarding the bill under discussion. I am absolutely confirmed in my belief, based upon close observation of the honorable senator since lie has been a member of this chamber, that immediately he wanders any distance from Bankstown he becomes absolutely bewildered. On practically every occasion when he has addressed the Senate he has had something to say in connexion with the district in which he was born and bred and in which, I suppose, he is likely to die. On some subjects that arise for discussion in this chamber, we may not all be well informed, but it is our duty to ascertain as much as we can about the matters that come under our notice. The honorable senator who dealt chiefly with the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited merely raised a bogy. Many people are so ill-informed that they regard this company as a great octopus that takes from the sugar industry a toll to which it is not entitled. ] point out, however, that this company has nothing whatever to do with possibly two-thirds of the production. It is concorned with, the refining of raw sugar, and, to some extent, with the export  of the product. 
A definite amount is allocated to the company for the service it renders to the industry, but, even if that cost were eliminated, it would , not be possible to reduce the price of sugar by more than l-12d. per lb. 
Tlie- sugar agreement was first entered into' 'in 1915. It is suggested that a commission' should be appointed- to guide the Parliament in its legislation regard-. ing the industry, but various tribunals have already investigated the conditions in the industry, and, following every inquiry, no matter which political party happened to be in power, the agreement has been renewed. I am sure that the growers would have nothing to lose as the result of the fullest investigation. If every industry were as efficient as the sugar industry, fewer would be calling upon the Government for relief, as the wheat industry is doing. The large quantity of sugar that is exported from Australia at a low price constitutes a hardship to the growers, although it confers a benefit upon the Commonwealth generally, providing overseas credit to the amount of £6,000,000 a year. The growers, now receive a lower price for their product than they did in 1913-14, when the cost of labour was' lower than it is to-day. Many of them consider that the agreement should be amended in order to give to them an increase of the price of their product, but they' realize that, in wartime, every industry should do its utmost to assist the nation. 
I should be surprised if this measure meets with much opposition. - Every honorable senator who has taken an interest. in the development ..of Australia knows that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, made profits before we : had  a  sugar- agreement. ' The agreement was opposed by this company, and one of the reasons why it was made was to control the industry in such a way as to protect it against enterprises. that might impose upon it. Of the 33 sugar mills .in Queensland, only four are owned by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. The others are owned by co-operative companies formed by the growers, themselves, and their operations would bear the closest investigation. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited has. large interests in other countries, including Fiji, and I should not be surprised if it were supplying the New Zealand market to-day at about 5d. per-' lb.  with Fiji sugar, grown by black labour. Yet consumers . in Australia pay only--. 4d. per lb. for sugar produced -.from . cane entirely grown by white labour. This agreement protects the Australian consumers, and' the principles governing the conduct of the industry are worthy of emulation by other industries. Wages are determined by arbitration, and the value of cane is decided by a competent tribunal, representative of the mills and the growers, a nd presided over by a supreme court judge. If that principle were adopted in other industries, greater stability than has yet been reached would be secured. 
I shall not attempt to trace the progress of the industry from its modest beginning nearly 70 years ago to the present day. I take it for granted that every honorable senator is aware of its progress. I recall the time when only black labour was employed in the industry, but, on the establishment of federation,  Sir Edmund  Barton visited Queensland and stated that the people of this country were determined to have a White Australia. The sugar industry, and the people generally, fell into line with that ideal. At the time wages were low, and t he price of sugar was low. When the change-over took place from black to white labour, white men worked 64 hours a week for a wage of 22s. 6d. a week. Gradually the people of this country realized the value of the sugar industry, and, to-day, along the coast of Queensland, 30,000 or 40,000 of the best men to be found in Australia are engaged in profitable employment. They constitute a standing army, which is prepared to take its place in industry, and is also able and willing at any moment to assist in defending this country. I remind  Senator Amour  that the agreement was brought into existence at the instance of a Labour Prime Minister and aLabour Premier of Queensland in 1915, and, in my opinion, it conforms with Labour principles. I am not in favour of any section of industry exploiting the people. Whatever ideas we may have regarding this matter, chickens will come home to roost. There is no substitute for work, and I believe that the sugar industry is carrying out to the full its obligations to the people. The development of the industry has been of tremendous importance to Queensland, since it has led to the building up along the coast of a growing and virile population, of which this nation may well be proud. The efficiency of the industry is remarkable. By the application of technical knowledge, sugar can be produced in Australia as cheaply as in most other countries. Although I have at my disposal a good deal of detailed information concerning the sugar industry, particularly concerning the price of sugar in other countries, I believe that as a majority of honorable senators intend to support the bill, it is unnecessary for me to deal with the subject at length. According to the statistical information available, in 43 countries the price of sugar is higher than it is in Australia. I have already referred to the fact that New Zealand consumers pay a higher price for sugar produced by black labour than that ruling in Australia.Fully onehalf of the sugar consumed by Great Britain is produced by black labour, yet the price in that country is higher than the Australian price. In consequence of policies of economic nationalism adopted in other countries, it is not now a matter of competing at world parity. Other countries contribute towards the cost. of maintaining the sugar industry to a much greater degree than Australia. 
The extent of the total effective State assistance rendered to the sugar producers of certain countries by the cumulative effect of tariffs, bounties, remissions of excise, and price-fixation is indicated in the following table, extracted from the annual report of the British Sugar Beet Society, for 1934-35 : - 

<graphic href="163332194005164_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

As other countries are subsidizing the production of sugar to a greater degree than Australia, the difficultiesof countries such as Australia, where sugar is produced solely by white labour, are intensified. Listening to the opinions expressed by some, one would imagine that other Australian industries do not receive protection. Many years ago Australia embraced a protective policy in order to build up its secondary industries, and the only way in which the Australian sugar industry can compete with blackgrown sugar is by affording protection in the form now being provided. What is the future of this essentialindustry if it is not to be given protection comparable wilh chat afforded to other industries?  Effective  provision has been made for the internal organization of the industry, and the present system, has proved of benefit not only to the industry, but also to the consumers. While the present system prevails the consumers can be assured that the price of the commodity will be controlled in their interests. Other honorable senators will, I am sure, adduce strong arguments to show why this industry should he afforded protection similar to thatgiven to other industries. In 1915, when the first sugar agreement was introduced, Australia was at war, and Australia was producing only one half of ils requirements, the remainder having to be purchased at ls. per lb. 
Some was of an inferior quality. If adequate provision is made to conserve the interests of all concerned, no opposition should be offered to the agreement. The principle involved in this instance should be adopted in  connexion  with other industries. Although the growers are receiving only the same price for their product as they received in 1918 and 1914, the efficiency of the industry has been increased considerably, thus causing over-production, which has interferred with development. Hut similar conditions exist in other primary industries, particularly in the wheat industry, where there is overproduction and low prices. 
 Senator Clothier  may be antagonistic because he has not a close knowledge of the conditions under which sugar is produced. I recall that other members of this Parliament, until they had visited Queensland to investigate the position, were opposed to any assistance being given to the industry; but .after visiting the cane-fields they changed their  attitude. I remind  Senator Clothier  that it. takes' approximately eighteen months "to produce a crop of sugar, and that the costs involved are heavy. Sometimes growers who cannot harvest their crop allow it to remain in the   hope that there may be a cyclone, say, in the district; in which  Senator Crawford  is interested, and which would enable their cane to be marketed later under more favorable conditions. It is of no advantage to a grower, who has taken from twelve to eighteen months to produce a crop of sugar, to allow it to stand over for a year. Had we not been at war, the Queensland sugar industry would possibly have marketed only a portion of its crop this year; but if shipping space is available, we hope to be able to dispose of all of our surplus, and in that way increase the Commonwealth overseas funds by about £6,000,000. The mills have to be assured of a profit on their  operations, and that and other factors are taken into consideration when price? are fixed. The growers also have to provide for the vagaries of the seasons and the possibility of not having any crop at all. Such factors are considered by the tribunal that deals with the internal management of the industry, and the control is based on equity and fair dealing to all. It would be uneconomic to reduce the price of sugar by even  id.  per lb. T assure  Senator Amour  that if his attack upon communism is not more effective than his attack upon the Queensland sugar industry, the " Corns." are not likely to suffer. It ill-becomes a representative of the workers to endeavour to interfere with the stability of an industry which is of such benefit to many small producers and workers, who toil much harder than those engaged in other industries. I believe that a majority of honorable senators are conversant with the agreement, and realize that it is in accordance with the established policy of this country to afford adequate protection to secondary and primary industries. The Government, realizing that it takes nearly two years to produce cane, has brought this measure forward well in advance of the expiry of the existing agreement so that those engaged in the industry may be assured that for a- period of five years conditions will remain stable. The difficulty associated with overseas markets and prices is one- of the most serious problems with which the industry is confronted. I again remind Labour senators that some of those whom they represent will suffer severely if the sugar industry is to be subjected to unfair competition, and that it is the duty of every member of the community who desires to maintain a high standard of living for the people to build up our industries to such a degree that they will be an example to other countries. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collett)  adjourned. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the statement which was delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr. McEwen)  (vide page 917). 
Usually when  Senator Courtice  participates in debates in this chamber he is the soul of courtesy. On this occasion, however, he has come down a little harshly upon his former colleague,  Senator Amour,  now Leader of the Australian Labour party - nonCommunist. In securing the adjournment of this debate yesterday,  Senator Amour  rendered a service to honorable senators as a whole, because in doing so he prevented the debate from petering out. Usually, after the Minister in charge of a bill makes his secondreading speech it is customary for the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Ceilings)  to obtain the adjournment of the debate, or at least to indicate whether he or his  deputy  intends to continue the debate. On this occasion, however, be remained silent. Perhaps his attitude in respect of this sugar bill can be explained by the fact that he comes from Queensland. At all events he gave no indication of what he thinks of the measure. 
No ; he was then in his seat. I suggest that in future, when the Leader of the Opposition docs not intend to exercise his privilege of following the Minister, he should indicate his intention so that honorable senators on this side may be enabled to continue the debate. This measure is too important to every householder in Australia to be disposed of without a full discussion. 
The agreement covered by the bill is the instrument by which we provide a home-consumption price for sugar, and. I th ink, this method is less clumsy than the imposition of theflour excise for the purpose of providing a home-consumption price for wheat. One phase of the agreement which has not yet been mentioned concerns the action taken by the late  Mr. Lyons,  when he was Prime Minister, whereby he negotiated a reduction of the price of sugar by½d. per lb. That action was most laudable, and the consumers of sugar in Australia have benefited from it for the last six years. 
I should like more information in respect of certain matters touched upon by the Minister  (Senator McLeay)  in his second-reading speech. He said that under the agreement the Queensland Government undertook to control effectively the production of raw cane sugar. I should like to know exactly wha t steps that government, or the Queensland Sugar Board, has taken to restrict production. Has it limited plantings, or taken other action with that object in view? It is well known that one of the greatest, difficulties confronting this industry arises from the fact that in respect of the large exportable surplus the growers must accept world parity.For this reason the return to the growers over the whole of their production is considerably reduced. I should like the Minister to enlighten me on this point- Exactly what limitations are imposed by the Queensland Government in order to restrict the production of sugar? 
I am aware of that but I should like to know what steps the Queensland Government has actually taken in order to restrict production with the object of reducing the exportable surplus? 
I am aware of that fact also, but I should like to know exactly what it is doing in this regard and also in connexion with all transfers of licences. My reason for seeking precise information on these points arises from my discovery on my last visit to the sugar districts of Queensland in May of last year, that an increasing number of inquiries was being made by aliens for additional leases, which automatically include licences.  Senator Amour  suggests that one phase of the industry which requires investigation is that concerning alien ownership of leases. We cannot expect that the increasing demand by aliens for additional leases which was evident last May has suddenly ceased. 
The. second point upon which I should like further information from the Minister concerns the request by retail grocers for an increase of the price of sugar in order to enable them to cover handling charges. This matter came under my notice long before I became a member of this chamber. In Western Australia volumes of correspondence have appeared in the newspapers on the subject. I am of opinion that retail grocers in that State are obliged to handle sugar at a loss. So far from the shopkeeper making a profit on the sale of sugar, he is actually making a loss, and to my knowledge has been doing so at least since 1923 or 1924 when the matter was first brought under my notice. 
SenatorFoll. - That is due to bad management. 
It is of no use to make a bald statement like that. If any trader in the Commonwealth is handling, at a loss, a. commodity, the price of which is restricted, he should be given justice. It does not matter whether he is a grocer, producer, or consumer, the same treatment should be extended to him as is given to other members of his trade. It is ridiculous to say that because a trader is making a loss on one particular commodity he is mis-managing his business. I know that one of the best managed grocery businesses in Perth has consistently shown a loss in its handling of sugar. I was told that by the manager of the business, and I am prepared to accept his statement because I know that his business is a well-regulated concern. That experience is only typical of the experience of many other retail grocery establishments. If there is the slightest possibility that an injustice is being done, a re-hearing should be allowed. 
I have not the actual figures before me, but there is a whole file of correspondence on the matter. 
The Minister also said that the power to regulate prices which are to be charged by retail grocers is a matter for individual State Governments. In other words this agreement is one which deals with peace-time conditions. But we are now in the middle of the greatest war in our history, conditions to-day are not peacetime conditions, and in that regard I think that the Minister's statement was rather weak. The realities of the war are not yet fully realized in Australia, but before long our people will fully appreciate the real significance of the present crisis. The Ministerwent on to say that the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner had indicated that, when the new agreement had been finally considered by Parliament, he would consider the protest by the retail grocers associations. 
I am not discussing that point. I am discussing the reasons for the amendment and what is actually happening in the world of sugar, not only from the producers point of view, but also from the point of view of the consumers. If one man in the sugar business thinks he is suffering an injustice his plaint should be heard. I am dealing now with the Minister's statement that the Prices Commissioner had indicated that when the new agreement had been finally dealt with by Parliament he would consider the request made by the retail grocers associations that the retail price of sugar be reviewed. That is an ambiguous statement. If there is the slightest possibility that an injustice is being perpetrated, there is no need for the Prices Commissioner  lo wait til the agreement has been ratified by Parliament. He should get  on  with the job now ; there is no justification for any delay. Because action by the Commonwealth Government has been impossible owing to constitutional limitations, retail grocers have been suffering a disability for years, and have not had an opportunity to take united action  to  secure .a remedy. For the first time Commonwealth legislation, that is the National Security Act, permitting an 

 Australiawide readjustment of prices is in operation. Because the Commonwealth is now paramount in the matter of price fixing the grocers think that they have a chance to obtain justice. I contend, therefore, that the Prices Commissioner need not wait until the fate of this measure is decided by Parliament. The old agreement has still sixteen months to run, and the Commissioner should start an inquiry immediately. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.More untruths have been circulated regarding the sugar industry in Queensland and New South "Wales than any other industry. I am positive that, if only for that . reason, the sugar industry would welcome a royal commission or any other inquiry into its affairs. 
 I have heard  Senator Crawford  make that statement. An inquiry would be in the best interest of the industry itself. Untruths and half-truths have been circulated throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth, generation after generation. No sooner is one generation convinced that sugar production is one of the best-conducted industries in the Commonwealth, and is vital to Australia, than another generation grows up and hears the same old stories. For that reason, above all others, I am sure that the industry would welcome any inquiry which would serve to dissipate the many untruths about its operations, and the extensive adverse propaganda which is being carried on throughout the  Commonwealth.  If an inquiry were held, the facts of the case could be dealt with in each State. For many years I have heard cited in Western Australia badly digested figures relating to the sugar industry - figures which would totally mislead any one who was prepared to hear the truth. These figures repeated year in year out, by any sort  of " tiddlywinking" organization which considers that it has a duty to protect the consumer form the basis of attacks upon the industry. I do not know whether or not there is any real or lasting cure for such misleading propaganda, but it is to be hoped that it will not continue. It is of no use to blink one's eyes to it. Instead of wildly attacking the mover of the amendment,  Senator Courtice  should have welcomed the suggestion that an inquiry should be held into the sugar industry.  1,  for ohe,  support  that suggestion, although I dissociate myself " from many of the extravagant remarks made by  Senator Amour. 
 Having been approached by the retail grocers of Western Australia I feel constrained to say  something  about the sugar agreement. I think I can claim to know something about sugar, because I have relatives who own some of the biggest sugar plantations in Queensland. In an interjection earlier in this debate,  Senator Courtice  referred to the wheat industry, but I point out to him that whereas it is possible to carry over sugar-cane for twelve months, it is not possible to carry over the wheat crop. Sugar-cane can be left in the ground, and I know that that was done last year, because the growers could not get a price for their cane. 
No; the Nambour district. I merely mention the carry-over in order to refute  Senator Courtice's  arguments. 
That was the honorable senator's misfortune, but it was not greater than the misfortune of the farmer whose unsold wheat is attacked by mice and  weavil.  Some consideration should, be given to the small shopkeepers. I am prepared to leave the retail price of sugar as it is, because it is a commodity which is consumed by the working people and any increase of price would impose hardship upon them. Why should a discount be given only to firms which buy not less than £1,500 worth of sugar a month? The smaller man too is entitled to consideration. From my experience of doing the books of small shopkeepers, I know that  The  handling of sugar does not show a profit, but sugar is indispensable to a grocery business. I have here a statement made by  Mr. M.  E. Pye, secretary of the Grocers Association of Australia (Incorporated) - 
Tlie retail grocery trade of any nation is linked high all over the world amongst the important industrial and financial trade  sections 
It is estimated that there are not less than 1,550 retailers of groceries in Western Australia and that the average retail grocer's silio of sugar is not less than 10 per cent, of his total sales turnover. 
The announcement in February by the Prime Minister that the sugar agreement with the Queeusland Government would be renewed, included a statement that the wholesale disci nuit list would be altered slightly, has led  w  rumours that it is intended to odd to that list some of the large retail establishments including chain and multiple stores, thus allowing them to obtain - like the wholesale houses - it discount of 2 per cent, if their monthly  purchases  total f 1.500. 
It will be argued no doubt that several small grocers in one district could band together and buy £1,500 worth of sugar a month, but honorable senators opposite know very well that that is not practicable.  Mr.  Pye's  statement continues - 
Thu retail grocery trade strongly objects to large, retail firms obtaining a concession of 2 [&gt;er cent, which the rank and file of the retail trade cannot obtain and which, from experience, would enable such large retailers to use the 2 per cent, discount for cutting the retail price of standard lines which they cannot buy at any better price or discount than can the small retail grocers. 
Quantity discounts made available to large buyers by some manufacturers have a similar affect as far as small retailers are concerned, because they give advantages to large retailers which the numerous small retailers cannot obtain 
If it is necessary to assist the large retailers, why should not the small shopkeepers also be helped? All are in the same trade. I rose chiefly for the purpose of directing attention to the effect of the agreement on the small grocers. An examination of the records for the year 193S-89 shows that the trade balance between Western Australia and Queensland was in favour of Queensland to the amount of £545,970, of which £452,736 represented purchases of raw sugar. The retail grocers of Western Australia appealed to me, and to my colleagues from that State, to bring before the Senate their complaints with respect to this agreement. They have no feeling whatever against the sugar growers of Queensland, but they contend that they should have the benefit of the 2 per cent, discount. They do not begrudge Queensland the advantages which it obtains from the sugar industry, but every publicspirited citizen of Western Australia objects strongly to the hardship inflicted by the agreement on the export trade of that State, and the loss occasioned to retail grocers in respect of sales of sugar. I hope that consideration will be given to the position of all small grocers, whom I am anxious to help. I happened to be resident in Queensland during the time when kanakas were employed in the cane-fields, and I was very pleased indeed when legislation was passed to exclude them. I sincerely hope that the Government will reconsider certain features of the agreement, particularly that relating to the discount of 2 per cent., which the «ma.!l grocers contend should be allowed to them. 
Whilst I appreciate the opportunity which has been afforded to honorable senators to discuss the sugar agreement, and intend to offer some criticism of it, I cannot bring myself to support the amendment submitted  by  Senator Amour.  The Australian sugar industry has been the subject of very many inquiries. Some time ago I was deputed by the then Prime Minister (the late  Mr. Lyons)  to visit Queensland for the purpose of reaching a  modus vivendi  with the Queensland Government and the sugar industry, and so it became necessary to examine the complete department- al files relating to the industry. I. approached the subject with a somewhat prejudiced mind, and in the belief that the interests of Australia would be served by a somewhat lower tariff than that favoured by some of my ministerial colleagues. I had before me a considerable volume of documentary evidence, including the report of the royal commission presided over by a distinguished judge from my own State, and also had access to the encyclopaedic knowledge of a senior officer of the Trade and Customs Department - I refer to  Mr. Townsend  who has at his fingers' ends the most complete details of the industry. A careful examination of all the evidence satisfied my mind on several points, and whilst it is my intention to-day to criticize one thing which the Government has done, 1 intend to support the second reading of the bill. 

 Senator Amour has practically launched his case against the agreement on the ramifications of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. I have no brief for that concern, and 1 may add that I do not know any of its shareholders  with the exception, perhaps, of  Sir Philip  Goldfinch, who came before us during the inquiry some years ago; but from my investigation of the company's affairs, and the information supplied by the departmental officer whose name I have mentioned, I came to the conclusion that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited was one of the most efficient industrial units in the Commonwealth. No waste is disclosed, and no huge profits are shown, in the Australian side of its business.  Senator Courtice,  who, this afternoon, spoke so ably in support of the agreement, cut the ground completely from under the feet of  Senator Amour,  by pointing out that of the 36 sugar-mills operating in Queensland, only three are under the control of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. The turnover of this company reaches colossal figures. During the investigation by the royal commission, it was proved that it was not competent for the commission to inquire into that portion of the company's business which is conducted outside the Commonwealth, so the inquiry was confined to its operations within Australia. If  Senator Amour  is seeking information concerning the operations of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, the whole of the figures are readily available to him, or to any other honorable senator. It is not necessary to appoint a royal commission, and incur expenditure on another inquiry. I have no doubt that the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McBride)  could, at short notice, obtain all the required information from the Trade and Customs Department, because it is on the files, and calculated to the decimal of a penny. At this time we should not- embark upon an unnecessary and expensive investigation, because, as [ have said,  Senator Amour  can obtain from the departmental files complete details of the services being rendered to the Commonwealth by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, and of what that company is getting in return. I ako remind the honorable gentleman that the agreement contained in this bill does not make mention of the company mentioned. It relates to an agreement made between the Government of the Commonwealth and the Government Of the State of Queensland. One paragraph of the agreement imposes an embargo on the importation of sugar from overseas. The price of sugar to "Various purchasers is also fixed. In my examination of the industry 1 visited a considerable number of sugar-mills in Queensland, travelling as far north as Cairns, where I was received with that hospitality which is so characteristic of the people of the northern State. I found them very concerned to maintain the sugar industry at its then high level of efficiency, and I have no doubt that my friend,  Senator Crawford,  will presently draw his verbal claymore and completely dispose of any objections that have been raised to a renewal of the agreement. In all seriousness I appeal to Senators Amour and Allan MacDonald not to pursue their objections to the second reading of the bill. This is no time for an expensive inquiry concerning an industry which has been so thoroughly and so often examined. "When I was settling the draft of the 1935 agreement I gave particular attention to the points that have been raised this afternoon by Senators Clothier and 
Allan MacDonald. The whole of the trouble, it seems, arises from the fact that a discount of 2 per cent. is allowed to purchasers described as wholesalers, who, it is thought, are entitled to some consideration, because they are required to handle large stocks, and sometimes to give extended credit to retail grocers. Latterly another class of grocery business has come into the picture - I refer to chain stores, and other similar groups of purchasers, who operate to the detriment of the small retail storekeeper. It will be for the Senate to decide whether an alteration that has been made in one clause of this agreement will prove beneficial to the retailer as the Minister yesterday suggested. In paragraph 5  b  there is this provision, relating to wholesale discount 
The prices for all the above products, other than mill-white sugar and first quality mill sugar (except the prices to manufacturers) shall on and after the first day of September One thousand nine hundred and forty be subject to a discount of two per centum payable monthly to any person, firm or corporation who or which in the opinion of the Queens- land Sugar Board - 
provides reasonable credit facilities for  retailers on a comprehensive range of groceries; 
keeps reasonable stocks of such gro ceries for resale to retailers; and 
buys not less than £1,500 worth per  calendar month of sugar and other sugar products as aforesaid. 
The existing agreement provides - 
That the prices for all the above products, except the prices to manufacturers, shall be subject to a discount of two per centum (the whole or any part of which discount may be deferred for a period not exceeding twelve months) to persons, firms and corporations who, in the opinionof the Queensland Sugar Board (whose decision shall be final and conclusive)- - 
are wholesale merchants, 
purchase such products and sell them only to completely independent retailers or manufacturers in quantities not more than sufficient for their respective businesses of retailing or  manufacturing. 
engage to a reasonable extent in the sale of such products on credit terms, and 
sell such products under conditions approved by such board. 
This shows that under the present arrangement the price is subject to a discount of 2 per cent. Apparently the chain stores and other groups to which I have referred are in a somewhat different position, and do not come within the compass of this portion of the agreement; I suppose that the struggle has been going on ever since the last agreement was made. This new agreement provides that the discount of 2 per cent. must be payable monthly. Under the existing agreement it may be deferred for a period not exceeding twelve months. The retailer looks to the wholesaler to provide him with his requirements, and, therefore, I think that the agreement would operate to the detriment of the wholesale grocer. Probably the chain stores could comply with the condition mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph 5b. Are we here to see that the retail grocers get a fair deal? They may desire to increase the price of sugar beyond a reasonable amount, but why should they not have a chance to participate in the 2 per cent. discount? Various difficulties have arisen in the past because some of the wholesale houses have proceeded to divide their discount with the retailers. Naturally, the Sugar Board has not had an easy road to travel. I suggest that, instead of increasing the price of sugar to the people, the Sugar Board might find another way out of this difficulty. I appeal to the sugar king,  Senator Crawford,  who is now present in this chamber, to use his influence with the board to see that the small man, for whom I have a considerable amount of sympathy in this matter, is able to get into the ring on this rebate. 
A greater service to the public than that rendered by the wholesalers is given by the small grocers who are to be found in every city, suburb and town throughout Australia. When I was interviewed in Adelaide on one occasion by the retailers, I advised them to form a co-operative company, and to purchase sufficient sugar monthly to become wholesalers. 
In my opinion the wholesalers are entitled to the small profit that they make out of the handling of sugar. The clause in the  agreement relating to the wholesale discount  is  so phrased that I doubt whether a co-operative company formed by retail grocers would be able to comply with the requirements of the clause, although, at the outset, I was inclined to agree with  Senator Clothier.  I support the bill, and can assure honorable senators that, coming from a State where the sugar agreement was anathema for a time, I have learnt a lesson as to the value of the industry to Australia. It keeps large areas in this country profitably occupied by strong sons of the soil. Queensland is, to a great degree, the home of the sugar industry, and I advise all doubting Thomases to visit that State and satisfy themselves of the efficiency of the industry. In certain respects it may be open to criticism. In one area, for instance, I thought that it would be advisable for the growers to pay no attention to the production of milk and butter fat; but one can only come to the conclusion that the industry is well conducted, and is deserving of all the support that Australia, in its own interests, is now giving to it. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [ 4.44] .  - I cannot support the amendment submitted by  Senator Amour.  He said that no investigation of the ramifications of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company limited had been made since 1915, but I recall that an inquiry was held by a committee nine years ago. The terms of reference were comprehensive, and the committee was a representative one. Its members were - 
Honorable John Guun - Director of Development, (chairman). 
C. Curlewis - Australian Sugar Producers' Association. 
C.G. Fallon -Em ploy ees in the industry. 
J. Matthews - Australian manufacturers who use sugar as a raw material in their products. 
Eliza Elsie Morgan  (Mrs.) - The domestic consumers. 
J. Short - Queensland Cane Growers Council. 
A.R. Townsend - Commonwealth Depart ment of Trade and Customs. 
Young - Australian fruit-growers. 
Having regard to the present international crisis, I doubt whether the results that would be obtained by the appointment of a royal commission to investigate the conditions in the sugar industry would compensate the country for the expenditure that would be incurred. The report of such a commission might meet a similar fate to those of the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems and the petrol commission. The committee which investigated the conditions in the industry in 1931 held 37 sittings, and 158 witnesses were examined.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan was right in saying that action should be taken by the Sugar Board with regard to the percentage allowed to the retailers. I agree with him that the services rendered by the retailer should be recognized and paid for. If the traders are not receiving the profit to which their services entitle them. . the matter should be investigated. 
The absence of a fixed retail price is causing a great deal of dissatisfaction. Honorable senators opposite who condemned the renewal of the sugar agreement by the Scullin Government, in 1931, are now supporting this agreement. 
If the honorable senator wishes to hang his hat on that peg it will have to be a very light hat.  Senator Crawford  stated that the retail price to-day is less than it was in 1914-15, but that is not borne out by facts. 
SenatorFRASER.- In 1915-16 the grower received £18 a ton. 
The price in 1923 was £27 a ton. 
It would appear that a majority of honorable senators intend to support the bill. 
I am not complaining, but I am showing that about ten years ago some of those supporting this proposal condemned the Scullin Government for renewing a similar agreement. What would be the result if the retail price were increased? 
I support the proposal made by  Senator A.  J. Mclachlan that the Sugar Board should investigate the matter in order to see whether some assistance can be given to the retailers. Should the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner increase the retail price of sugar by 1/2 d. per lb. the consumers would have to pay an additional £1,000,000 annually. I am not opposed to the retailers receiving a higher percentage than at present, but that should come from the wholesale price. If the. price were increased additional profits would be made by the producers. 
 No. I am opposed to any additional burden being placed on the consumers. 
I understood that the retail price was still under consideration. 
An increase of  id.  per lb. would cost the consumers £1,000,000 annually, but as a result of such an increase those who have not made any representations would receive the benefit at the expense of the consumers. 
I am not suggesting that. 
I remind  Senator Courtice  that the gold-mining industry is as important to the State which I represent as is the sugar industry to Queensland. 
Yes, hut the honorable senator supported an  iniquitous  tax on gold production. 
Honorable senators in opposition said that the profits on gold production should be taxed, but the honorable senator supported a tax on production. After the inquiry in 1931 the sugar agreement was renewed with modifications under which the assistance afforded to the fruit industry was  increased  from £180,000 to £315,000 by an additional grant from the sugar industry. At a conference between the Commonwealth and the industry in 1932 a reduction of 1/2 d. per lb. was agreed upon from the 1st January, 1933, until the termination of the agreement in 1936. lt was also decided to reduce the assistance to the fruit industry to £200,000. 
When did the sugar committee make a recommendation * 
Prior to that year the agreement provided for a payment  of  £180,000 per annum, and the amount was increased to £315,000. That is stated on page 715 of the Commonwealth  YearBook.  The agreement was signed on the 1st June, 1931, and was to remain in force for a period of five years from the 1st September of that year. In 1932 a conference was arranged between the Commonwealth Government and the representatives of the industry at which it was agreed to reduce the retail price of sugar by id. per lb. from the 1st January, 1933, until 1936. It was also decided to reduce the amount of assistance to the fruit industry to £200,000. A renewal of the agreement  for  five years commencing on the 1st September, 1936, was negotiated between  the  Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government in July, 1935. That disposes of the suggestion that it was done by a committee of inquiry. 
Surely the Commonwealth  Year-Booh,  which is compiled  by government officials under direction from the Commonwealth Government, is an official document. 
I am citing the figures contained in the Commonwealth  Year-Boole  and not those contained in the committee's report. It has been said that the committee reduced the amount from £315,000, whereas an arrangement was arrived at between the Commonwealth and the sugar industry to reduce the retail price of sugar by £d. per lb., and at the same time the grant to the fruit industry was reduced from £315,000 to £200,000. Subsequently it was decided to increase that assistance' by £16,000. However, the amount which the committee recommended to the fruit industry in 1931, namely, £315,000, has been reduced to £216,000, thus effecting a saving of £88,000 to the sugar industry. 
The Minister can read the committee's recommendations for himself. They were adopted by the Government, and were generally implemented, but have been since amended, as I have stated. Have not representatives of the fruit industry actually asked for increased assistance? 
I am dealing with the recommendations of the committee which inquired into this matter in 1931. The retailer is entitled to a fair margin of profit. I do not suggest that the price of sugar should be increased. I have said that I am opposed to any increase of the burden on the consumer.  Senator Amour  dealt at length with the profits of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. The honorable senator should carefully peruse the report of the committee of 1931. Indeed, all honorable senators should study that report,  before they consider any proposal for the appointment of another royal commission to inquire into this agreement. Whilst much ground exists for criticism of the operations of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, I can find nothing in the bill to which I take exception. I wish that wheat and wool could be placed upon the same footing .as sugar. 
Although  Senator Amour  dealt at length with the operations of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. he found 'no fault with any of the findings of various royal commissions and committees which have inquired into the sugar industry iu the past. As has already been pointed out, the committee appointed in 1931 made a comprehensive investigation, as the result of which a Labour government ratified the agreement. In view of these facts I suggest that, particularly at the present time when we require as much money as we can raise for very urgent purposes, it would be sheer waste to incur any expenditure upon a further inquiry into the industry. The sugar industry is an asset not alone to Queensland but to Australia as a whole. When we contrast the position of the industry to-day with its position some years ago, when sugar  was grown by black labour, we can readily appreciate the tremendous progress which it has made. In addition, the industry is essential if we are to defend effectively the northern portion of this continent, because it helps to populate the north with white people. Much has been said in this debate in support of the retail grocers' request that the retail price of sugar should be increased. I am somewhat puzzled by the fact that the grocers did not squeal about the price before war broke out. Admittedly a few of them made this request before the outbreak of war, but all of the requests with which I have been inundated have been made since. If the grocers' grievance were genuine they would have made their request two years ago. 
That is so. We can only conclude that the retail grocers made their request merely in order to have the price lifted before sugar came  within the purview of the Prices Commission.  Senator Allan  MacDonald said that the retail price of 4d. per lb. was considered by consumers to be tpo high. I do not agree with him. At the same time, I am very glad to hear that the price will not be increased. "We must remember that prices of - many other essential commodities- are rising. When one bears in mind the costs involved in the numerous phases of sugar productionplanting, hoeing, cutting, handling, manufacture and' transport - it cannot be said that the price of 4d. per lb. is excessive. That  figure appears to be very reasonable when we compare it with the price of meat, some of the more- common cuts of which cost ls. 3d. per lb. Moreover, considerably greater quantities of meat, and other commodities, such  a3  butter and cheese, are consumed by the average individual. It is most unlikely that the average weekly consumption of sugar  per capita  would be more than  14  lb., which involves a weekly outlay of 6d. Consequently any reduction of the present price would mean only an infinitesimal saving to the average consumer. 
The future of the sugar industry should be regarded from not a State but an Australian view-point. It is one of our most valuable industries, and I should not like to see its progress retarded in any way.  Senator Amour  should study the reports of the various royal commissions and committees which have inquired into the industry in the past. I' feel sure that if he does so he will agree that the appointment of another royal commission at this stage cannot be justified. 
.- I wholeheartedly support the ratification of the sugar agreement. In recent years considerable discontent with the retail price of sugar was evident in Tasmania. However, I am not impressed by the arguments put forward by the retail grocers in favour of an increase of the price to 4£d. per pound. When the agitation on this subject was proceeding in Tasmania, I considered it my duty as a senator to acquaint myself at first hand with the actual conditions prevailing in the industry in Queensland. Accordingly, I took the opportunity last' year to visit 
Mossman, Cairns, Innisfail, Gordonvale, and the' Herbert River, Mackay and Bundaberg districts, where I got some idea of the ramifications of the industry. I witnessed every phase of the operations, such as hoeing, burning-off; cutting, transport to the mill and manufacture. Queensland can regard the sugar industry as one of God's blessings. Indeed, if Australian consumers were asked to pay, not 4d. per lb., but 6d. or even ls. per lb. for sugar it would be well worth while their doing so, because from a defence viewpoint alone, apart from consideration of our economic well-being generally, it is essential that the industry shall develop and prosper. Without it we should find it almost impossible to provide adequately for the defence of the northern portion of this continent. I do not think that the sugar-growing areas of Australia are suitable for any other kind of primary production. In past years- many Tas'manians migrated each season to Queensland, in order to obtain employment in cane -cutting. That work, together with their employment in the fruit industry in their own State, tided them over the full year. The grocers, who have been primarily responsible for the agitation which has taken place, claim that the agreement should not be renewed because they are unable to obtain an adequate profit from the handling of sugar. I point out, however, that sugar is one of the easiest commodities to handle. It is made up in slack periods and, when it is purchased by the consumer, it is merely handed over the counter. In 90 cases out of 100, the retailers charge for the bags as well as the sugar. The grocers are obtaining a profit of 134 per cent, on sugar, and if they desire an additional 2£ per cent., they have only to form co-operative buying agencies which would purchase wholesale £1,500 worth of sugar a month. I wholeheartedly support the agreement, and I am sorry to hear so much carping criticism of it. I hope that it will be ratified. 
Discussion of the bill itself, and of the amendment moved by  Senator Amour.  has hinged mainly on the retail price of sugar. That matter is of particular interest to the people generally, and is large in the minds of count rj  and city retailers alike. I am well aware that the retail price of sugar is not fixed by the Sugar Board, but by the people engaged in the trade. My opinion is that there is only one way in which this problem can be satisfactorily settled. Something must he done to give to the retailer a slight reduction of his buying price, so that without any alteration of the price to the consumer, the grocer will obtain a slightly greater margin of profit. How best to achieve that objective is the problem that is largely exercising the minds of honorable senators. The sugar agreement itself can he dealt with when this measure is in the committee stage. I cannot see that any good purpose would be served by holding the inquiry suggested by  Senator Amour. 
One aspect of the sugar industry which has 'been the subject of much discussion, and is worthy of very close examination, is the problem of marginal lands. The same problem exists in the wheat-growing industry. There is a movement afoot, and funds have been appropriated, for the purpose of removing wheat-growers from marginal lands and settling them on areas which have a more assured rainfall. Similarly, areas are being used to-day to grow sugar cane which are too far south for the industry to be carried on profitably, but in the northern portions of Queensland lands admirably suited for sugar-growing are . available. In fixing the price of sugar, the whole of the sugargrowing areas are taken into consideration, with the result that the wholesale price is unnecessarily high. These marginal areas affect the sugar-growing industry in the same way as they affect the wheat industry. If sugar-growing is to be recognized as an industry of national importance, as we all admit it to be, action should be taken to put it on a sound basis by eliminating marginal areas, and transferring the growers to land which is more suited to sugar-cane growing. If growers now working those marginal lands cannot be provided with more suitable sugar holdings, they should be switched to some other form of primary production. This is a matter which vitally affects the sugar industry and should be given full consideration by the Government. 
Yes, but it is important. The price at which sugar is sold is controlled by the average sugar production of all sugar-growing areas, so that if uneconomic marginal areas are included, the price is unnecessarily high. 
Another important matter is the substantial proportion of sugar that is exported and has to be sold at world parity prices. In the past parity prices have been low, and in order that those engaged in the industry might receive a reasonable return for their product, it has been necessary to keep up the homeconsumption price. In all probability, during the next few years, the demand for sugar will be greatly increased, and so the export price will be higher. That is inevitable. It is also reasonable to assume that the sugar surplus will increase as the result of improved methods of farming, and the use of more suitable varieties of cane. In that connexion I pay a tribute to those engaged in the sugar industry for the manner in which they have developed and improved every phase of it. As has been the case with many other industries to which scientific methods have been applied, both the quantity and quality of sugar produced have been substantially advanced, and the improvement has made possible a better margin of profit. If the export price of sugar does increase - it seems inevitable that that will happen - there  should  be a corresponding decrease of the price to consumers in this country. It is only fair and reasonable to expect that, and the Sugar Board should give consideration to that matter. The high home-consumption price in the past has been due largely to the low price received for our exportable surplus. Approximately 50 per cent, of our sugar is exported, and a substantial increase in the price overseas should result in a decreased home-consumption price. 
I am not aware that the Queensland Government has ever been called upon to make good any loss incurred in the export cif sugar. 
That is so, but it has never been called upon to appropriate money to meet a loss on exports. 
That is so. 
Returning for the moment to the subject of marginal lands, I draw attention to the findings of the Royal Commission on the Sugar Industry. In the summary of recommendations made by that commission is to be found the following:- 
That the industry take definite steps to reduce its unprofitable surplus production. 
I do not know what is implied by that recommendation, but I presume that the royal commission gave consideration to the very question which has been raised here this afternoon. If marginal areas were eliminated, the sugar industry would be substantially more profitable than it is to-day. 
It is not my province to determine that. If these people could be repatriated to areas which are more suitable for sugar production, then that should be done. Can the honorable senator justify the continuance of sugar-growing on marginal areas, when the home-consumption price of sugar has to be kept at a high figure in order to enable the export of more than 50 per cent. of Australia's total production? It should be the responsibility of State governments to see that sugar is not produced on uneconomic areas. I repeat that in Queensland there are large areas which are far more suitable for sugar-growing than some of the lands at present used for that purpose. 
They have been referred to by the Commonwealth Sugar Inquiry Committee and by other authorities which made investigations. 
The problem of marginal areas exists in the wheat industry, as well as in the sugar industry, and I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition has complained about the remedial measures which are being taken with regard to wheat farming. Production on marginal areas has always been a vexed question in the wheat industry. When the price of wheat has been good, production has extended to uneconomic areas, and when the price has fallen, these areas have had to be abandoned. 
That is so. Action in connexion with this matter is recommended in paragraph 1 of the committee's recommendations. In paragraph 2, the committee further stated that production should be reduced. Then it dealt with the price of sugar, and recommended that any reduction should he passed on to the consumer. I am not supporting the suggestion that an inquiry should be held, because I do not think that it would serve any good purpose. An inquiry such as that recommended by  Senator Amour  would have no bearing on the retail price of sugar. Any alteration would have to be effected either by the Sugar Board reducing the wholesale price, or by the retailers obtaining the permission of the Prices Commissioner to increase the retail price. This is not a time to advocate an increase of price to the consumers. 
No; but I think there should be an inquiry to ascertain whether or not the margin between the price to wholesalers and the price to retailers is not too great. It may be possible to reduce the margin, although I am not suggesting that the industry should bear the cost of that reduction. 
-I understand that the retailers' margin is 12 per went. 
-I should say that much depends upon the manner in which a business is conducted. I understand that in some districts in Queensland sugar is sold for less than 4d. per lb., whereas in other places the price is 4£d. per lb. 
Yes; a retailer would be governed by the activity of his competitor in business. That is the only point which I wish to make. I do not think that any honorable senator should support action which would have the result of increasing the price to the consumer. 
I am in favour of a renewal of the agreement. Some time ago I was deputed by the retail grocers of Hobart to interview Professor Copland on this subject. After examining the statement submitted by the secretary of the Retail Grocers Association, I was satisfied that the retailers were not getting a fair profit at the price charged. Professor Copland mid me that he had to make the Hobart grocers take off id. per lb. because if he had not done so there would have been similar demands from grocers in all of the other States to be allowed to charge a higher price. It has been stated that retail grocers trade on a margin of between 9 per cent, and 12 per cent., and it has been shown that in respect of sales of sugar the margin is very small. In fact it is claimed that if some grocers had their way, they would not handle sugar at all, owing to the cost involved in bagging and weighing the commodity and the small margin of profit allowed. I visited the sugar-growing districts of Queensland last year, inspected a number of mills, and had long talks with Italian growers in the Townsville district. From what I learned during that visit I agree with  Senator Courtice  that the sugar industry is one of the most efficient in 
Australia.  Senator Herbert  Hays spoke about the unwisdom of growing sugar cane on what he described as marginal lands.  I  happened- to be in the Northern Rivers district of New South Wales last week and saw there crops of sugar-cane 10 feet or 12 feet high. The growers informed me that it took two years to grow a crop, whereas in Queensland maturity is reached in fifteen months. 
Well, the crops I saw in the Northern Rivers district of that State were magnificent. All that has been said this afternoon does not alter tho fact that the sugar industry has been the subject of thorough and repeated investigations so there is no necessity for another inquiry. This matter was discussed at a meeting of the Labour party this morning, and  Mr. Scullin,  who introduced the bill to ratify the agreement in 1931, told us that the renewal of the agreement would be very much in the interests of the people of Australia. 
.- I intend to support, the bill and to vote against the amendment. An exhaustive inquiry into the sugar industry was conducted by the Scullin Government in 1931. All the interests concerned on that occasion were represented, and the report was one of the most complete documents relating to the industry ever presented. The Scullin Government did the right thing in ratifying the agreement, which was renewed a few years later by the Lyons Government. The salient points of the committee's report of 1931 have been fully outlined by  Senator Courtice.  I compliment the honorable senator on his lucid explanation of the implication of the agreement and the importance of the industry to this country. As an industrialist, I am satisfied that all of the employees in the industry are well provided for as regards industrial awards and conditions, and I believe that any reduction of the price of sugar to retailers would not be in the interests of the people as a whole. I, in common with other honorable senators, have received from grocers' associations throughout Australia complaints with respect to the discount of 2 per cent., but I am credibly informed that the profit margin is about 15 per cent. 
Those figures were supplied to me officially, and I have no reason to doubt their accuracy. Sugar  is  only one  of a  multitude of lines handled by retail grocers and there is no risk whatever, because it is readily saleable at a price which, as  Senator Courtice  has shown, is lower than that paid by people  in  New Zealand and in other countries.  I  am  also  impressed by the fact that in Queensland the area under cultivation exceeds 300,000 acres. As the average holding is 40 acres, approximately 8,000 growers and their families are engaged in the industry, which employs no fewer than  21,000  men, including 9,000 cane-cutters, engineers, and mechanics. I am informed that 90 per cent, of the men in the industry are British subjects. 
The Italian canegrowers are as good unionists as any Australian workers, so no objection can be raised on that account. The total capital employed in the industry is £16,000,000, including machinery and equipment valued at £8,000,000 or £9,000,000. The Government has done the right thing in submitting this bill for the renewal  of  the agreement. The Scullin Government, of which I was a supporter in 1929-31, held an exhaustive inquiry into every aspect  of  this industry and I believe that a great majority  of  the members  of  the chamber are in favour  of  the agreement. It is not necessary to refer the agreement  to  a royal commission for inquiry, because, as has been stated so often this afternoon, it has been the subject  pf  numerous inquiries. Conditions have not altered  since the last report was presented. The industry was really stabilized by State and Federal Labour governments - the Ryan Government  of  Queensland and the Fisher Government  of  the Commonwealth - and it enabled the people  of  Australia to get their sugar  at a  price that compares favorably with prices in other countries. Secondary industries have protection through the customs tariff, and the workers are protected by arbitration awards covering wages and conditions. Our wheat-growers have benefited to the amount of £14,000,000 in the last eight or nine years. The embargo on sugar is necessary, and in the  interests  of Australia. We have succeeded in eliminating black labour from the industry, which is now carried on by white labour under regulated conditions. I approve the ratification of the agreement. 
I listened attentively to the mover of the amendment  (Senator Amour)  and his supporter, expecting them to give some reason to justify the proposal to appoint a royal commission to inquire into the sugar industry. Neither honorable senator gave reasons. As royal commissions are extremely expensive, good cause must be shown before the Senate could approve the adoption of the amendment. Already four inquiries have been made into the industry - the royal commission of 1912, the royal commission of 1920, the Sugar Concession Committee, of 1922, and the Sugar Inquiry Committee of 1931. Thousands of pounds of public money has been expended on investigations of this industry.  Senator Amour  has failed to advance any good reasons to justify the expenditure that the appointment of a royal commission would involve. I oppose the appointment of such bodies in other than exceptional circumstances. Ample evidence is available to honorable senators in the reports already presented to enable them to satisfy themselves as to the conditions prevailing in the industry. It is interesting to observe how the cost of 4d. per lb. for sugar is arrived at. The retail grocer gets .443d. per lb.; the discount to the wholesale merchant is .049d. per lb. ; the concession to the fruit industry is .124d. per lb. ; the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited receives for refining, .444d. per lb.; the cane-growers get 1.902d. per lb.; and the raw sugar mills are paid .815d. per lb. 
The main attack on the industry has been founded on the colossal profits that have been made in the past by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited; but it is pf no use to talk loosely on the matter, or to imagine that any reduction of price to the consumer is possible from that source. The total sum received by the company for refining and profit is under  id.  per lb., and wo have no coinage in circulation in Australia under  id.  Even if the company not only made no profit, but also paid nothing to its employees, no reduction of the price to the consumer would be possible from that source. Nobody suggests that the price to the grower should be reduced. When we examine the whole of the reports that have been submitted, we must admit that, apart from an increase of the price of sugar overseas, or  a  reduction of the quantity of sugar produced,  there  is no likelihood of a reduction of price to the Australian consumer. As to the future world price for our exports of sugar, I agree . with  Senator Herbert  Hays that everything points to  a  possible increase of the price overseas, but a reduction of the quantity of sugar produced in Australia would be most undesirable. This industry is building up valuable export credits for Australia at the present time. I heard an announcement over the air to-day that, owing to a failure of  the  sugar crop in the West Indies, sugar is to he severely rationed in London. Therefore, everything possible should be done to assist the Australian industry to increase its exports  of  sugar  for  the duration of the war, even if, later, production might have to be restricted. 
 The mills have been asked to begin operations two weeks earlier than usual, because of the conditions to which the honorable senator lias referred. 
The elimination of black labour from the sugar-fields, if viewed in its proper perspective, would be regarded as the finest achievement standing to the credit of Australia, not excluding the establishment of federation. My sympathies have always been with the sugargrowers, and the amendment submitted by  Senator Amour  shows that his sympathies are with the growers and the workers in the field. The debate has related mainly to the operations of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited.  Senator Amour  showed that the worker in the industry is very little better off to-day' than he was in 1915. 
But what is their present purchasing power compared with that in 1915?  Senator Amour  pointed out that only 19 per cent, of the cane-growers have taxable incomes. 
If a commission were appointed, it could find out how the position could be remedied. Another point taken by  Senator Amour  was that an investigation would show whether the price of sugar to the consumers could bc reduced. 
Yes. I have in mind what the wheat-grower gets for his product and what the working man has to pay for his bread. 
A commission could find out that. The statement has been made that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is paid so little for the work of refining sugar that it is practically doing it for love of Australia. Its remuneration is .444d. per lb., but the total sum received amounts to £1,000,000 a year. It has been said that most of the profits of this company are made outside Australia. From  Dobson's Digest  I find that it has. an output of  756,000  tons of sugara year in Australia, and  149,000  tons in Fiji. It seems, therefore, that most of its profits come from Australiangrown sugar. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is engaged in producing commodities other than sugar, from which it derives considerable profit. For instance, it controls a distillery, and in its factory at Pyrmont it also produces canite, -which is sold in large quantities to the Defence Department. If the company's profits from such sources were ascertained, it would be found thatits total profits would be increased by perhaps  £500,000.  In view of these facts there is every justification for an investigation. According to  Dobson's Digest  the shares of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited have risen in value in consequence of the renewal of the sugar agreement. If the agreement is of no benefit to the company it would be interesting to know why the price of the shares has risen since the agreement was signed.  Senator Amour  has submitted several important questions which should be answered either by the Minister or some other honorable senator who has a knowledge of the company's operations. We should like to know the conditions under which the employees work, and the degree to which they benefit under this agreement. 
That may be so. When an industry receives such substantial protection wo are entitled to ask why only  19  per cent. of those engaged in it are in receipt of taxable incomes, and whether they have that measure of comfortand remuneration to which they are entitled. When the imposition of a flour tax was under consideration, it was said that there was a discrepancy of  £24  a ton between the amount which the wheat-growers receive for their product and the price at which bread is sold. A full investigation would be of benefit, particularly to the consumers, many of whom think that in view of the profits made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited the price whichthey have to pay for sugar is too high. 
SenatorE B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [6.8]. - Having, over a period of years, visited North Queensland on three occasions and made inquiries into the ramifications of the Queensland sugar industry, I am convinced that it is most valuable and of the utmost importance to Australia. 
 That is admitted. 
In North Queensland there is a huge well-watered and rich province, capable of carrying a much larger population, particularly in that portion in which sugar is produced, than it is carrying to-day. Every kind of tropical fruit and vegetation grows luxuriantly, and  one  cannot help sympathizing with those who are anxious to make their homes and produce sugar on those fertile lands but are prevented from doing so because they cannot obtain the necessary permit. 
Yes ; but a valuable commodity is being produced. During one of my visits to northern Queensland I met men who showed me beautiful cleared fields adjacent to the sugar mills, and who toldme that they could not obtain a permit to grow sugar. One man informed me that if he could obtain a permit and the mills would take his cane his land would be worth up to  £100  an acre. He could engage in dairying, but there was then little local market for dairy produce. 

 Senator E. B. JOHNSTON. Yes ; but there must be something wrong with our economic system if wonderful fertile lands, such as are  to  be seen in northern Queensland, cannot be developed sufficiently to enable them to carry a much larger population. Sugar-growers, who are primary producers, enjoy a handsome home-consumption price for their product, and that is really the object of the sugar agreements which have been made over a period of years. It is regrettable that some of the foremost champions of the sugar industry are  most active in their opposition to a home- consumption price for wheat. Tea, sugar and bread are essential commodities in every Australian home. 
When listening last night to the eloquent speech of the Leader of the Opposition on the financial proposals of the Government, I heard him state most emphatically that t he flour tax should be repealed. 
No one knows better than the members of the Opposition that the only means by which a home-consumption price can be assured to the wheat-growers by federal action is by means of the flour tax.From my inquiries in northern Queensland, admittedly a few years ago, it did not appear to me that the growers were receiving more than a fair price for their product, particularly as they live in isolated localities in tropical areas where in summer t he climatic conditions are severe. I found that settlers, especially recent arrivals, objected strongly to the restrictions imposed by the Queensland Government and the Queensland Sugar Board in regard to planting new areas with sugar cane. The sugar industry has been the means of establishing a large and prosperous population in north Queensland, but I regret that that population is not more British in character. 

 Silting suspended from 6.15 to8 p.m. 

Before the sitting was suspended I expressed regret that British population was not more in evidence in certain districts of northern Queensland. It may be that many of the foreigners who reside in those districts are naturalized; but the fact remains that one foreign language particularly is spoken quite generally. The preponderance of foreigners in those parts is a source of national danger, which may early become more evident should a certain European nation enter this war against the Allies. 
That is so. However, when I last visited northern Queensland in company with prominent Australian sugar-growers, the latter were greatly perturbed over the penetration of aliens, particularly as so many of them were acquiring sugar farms. 
I do not know. A large number of them have been naturalized, but I cannot say to what degree their naturalization papers, which are so generously issued to them by this Government, would influence them in our favour in the event of differences arising between Australia and the country from which they come. 
SenatorFoll. - It is only fair to those people to say that the great majority of them have, on many occasions, passed resolutions declaring their loyalty to the British throne. 
I am glad to hear that. Of course one must admit that in the sugar districts are to be found some of the sturdiest people who pioneered those districts under very great hardship. We are fortunate in having in  Senator Crawford  and  Senator Courtice  direct representatives of British pioneers in those districts. However, though some of us decline to take the advice of those honorable senators on this bill, we nevertheless assure them that the efficient sugar industry would have nothing to fear if an investigation were conducted by a royal commission, as has been suggested by  Senator Amour.  In any case, such an inquiry is now justified, because the last inquiry into the industry was held nine years ago in circumstances which differ considerably from those existing to-day. As a matter of fact, although I listened very carefully to the Assistant Minister's speech, I do not quite know how the details of this agreement were arrived at. Apparently, the Government took the view that as the agreement was in operation, it would be quite all right to renew it practically as it stood. I am notsatisfied that the Government gave sufficient consideration to the matter, or that it sought such expert advice as it should have done seeing that it was about to renew an agreement so important to the nation. The Assistant Minister gave no indication of whether the various prices fixed are just, in the circumstances existing to-day. Neither did he explain the urgency for the renewal of this agreement, in view of the fact that the existing agreement would not ordinarily expire until September, 1941; that is, fourteen or fifteen months ahead, and during that period a general election will be held.I urge the Government to be cautious in committing the country to too great a degree in regard to matters which, in ordinary circumstances, should not be considered until after the next general election is held. 
We are being asked to give to the industry a monopoly of the Australian market. I can see no objection to that. The industry is efficient., and every phase of it, right from planting to refining, seems to be skilfully carried out. Whilst admitting those facts, however, we should have evidence of whether the retail price of 4d. per lb. in State capital cities is justified, or whether it is possible to reduce that price without doing an injustice to those directly engaged in the industry. Indeed, since hearing the Assistant Minister's speech, a doubt has arisen in my mind as to whether the present price of 4d. per lb. in State capitals is to be adhered to after this agreement is ratified by Parliament. I do not want to see the price increased to 4½d. per lb. When the sugar agreementwas last renewed by the Lyons Government, an assurance was given on behalf of the Government that the price of 4½d., then existing, would be reduced to 4d. in State capitals. At the same time, however, this understanding was not legally covered in the agreement itself. The reduction was effected, and it stands to the credit of the Lyons Government that its undertaking was fully honoured. Consequently, it is useless for the Assistant Minister to take the stand that the retail price of sugar is not covered in the agreement. That issue is morally a part of the agreement. The Minister for Commerce said - 
I might say, however, that the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner has under consideration requests by various retail grocers' associations for retailors to be allowed to obtain a larger gross profit on sugar by increasing the present capital city price from 4d. to 4¼d. per lb. The Commissioner has indicated that he will consider this matter when the new sugar agreement has finally been considered by Parliament. 
That statement gives rise to a doubt in my mind as to whether the price of 4d. in capital cities is to be retained. I fear that those remarks foreshadow an increase of½d. per lb., which would mean an additional cost of £1,000,000 annually to the Australian consumers of sugar. 
The feature of this proposal is that we renew an agreement which has operated for the last five years. I have no doubt that the agreement will be renewed, but we have not yet had any assurance that the price of 4d. in capital cities will not be increased. I hope that the interests of sugar consumers in Australia will be adequately protected by the Government when this agreement is ratified. The interests of the growers are fully safeguarded under the agreement. 
Another reason why a royal commission should be appointed to inquire into the agreement - althoughI think that the matter could be investigated more effectively by the Tariff Board - is that such an inquiry would serve to allay the suspicion in the community that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is receiving far more than its fair share of the benefits resulting from the agreement. 
One unanswerable fact is that the profits of this company during the last three years were as follows : - 1937, £1,036,336; 1938, £1,060,786; and 1939, £1,005,670; whilst during that period it paid in dividends amounts ranging from £804,000 to £877,000. 
From the  Wildcat Monthly,  but those figures are taken from the official balance-sheet  of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. 
If a royal commission were appointed it could find out how and where those profits had been made. 
That is news to me. In 1934, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited distributed £7,000,000 by way of bonus shares, and the Commonwealth Government of the day, by a special provision in the Income Tax Act, exempted that money from tax. I take the following figures from the balance-sheets of this company for the periods ending 1920, 1925, 1980, and 1939 : - 

<graphic href="163332194005164_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

The point I wish to make is that until the end of 1939 the fortunate shareholders of this company had paid £2,425,000 in cash into the company, and had received in bonus capital £13,175,000. The total scrip issued was £15,000,000, and the capital return, apart from dividends, amounted to £3,900,000, which is an increase of more than 50 per cent. over what the shareholders had paid into the company. In effect, they received all of their money back and half as much again-. 
They refer to the profit made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. According to certified balance-sheets the company is making more than £1,000,000 a year. These are facts which justified  Senator Amour  ' in moving his amendment. There is a general desire among the people of this country, and among sugar-growers, to know whether or not the profits disclosed by these balancesheets are excessive. There . is another matter with which I should' like to deal, and that is the repeated complaints made to members of this chamber by grocers' associations and similar organizations, to the effect that the grocers retailing sugar do not receive a fair remuneration for the handling of that commodity. 
I do not, and I. hope that it will not. When the sugar agreement was being reviewed, 'I never dreamt that an increase of the price to the Australian consumer was contemplated, especially in view of the fact that the overseas market for sugar had improved - I hope that it will improve much' more. Until I heard "the Minister's speech; I' was,' not' aware that the passing"on'of an extra½d. per lb. to the con- sumer was under consideration by the Prices Commissioner. 
SenatorFoll. - The matter was raised by the grocers themselves. 
We are being asked to ratify this agreement without being given any official information, and in the absence of important details. Consequently I intended to move an amendment, but I was forestalled by  Senator Amour.  My amendment would have been in these terms - 
That all the words after the word " that " be omitted with a view to the insertion in lien thereof, the words " that the bill be withdrawn, and the proposed sugar agreement and the position of the sugar industry generally, be referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report with particular reference to- 
1 ) The desirability of decreasing the price  of sugar to the Australian consumer; 
Whether excessive profits are being  made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited; and 
Means by which the Colonial Sugar  Refining Company Limited should allow a fair profit to grocers and other retailers of sugar without extra cost to the consumer. 
I do not think that it is competent for me to move my amendment now, but I do strenuously object to an increase of the price of sugar to the consumer. It would be far more preferable to refer these matters to the Tariff Board than to a royal commission. I have very little faith in royal commissions, unless I know exactly how they are to be constituted. The Tariff Board is an efficient and impartial tribunal, and is charged with the responsibility of deciding what measures of protection and assistance are to be given to Australian industries, particularly secondary industries. I believe strongly that the Tariff Board is the right tribunal to inquire into the sugar agreement, but a I am not now in a position to move my amendment under the Standing Orders of the Senate, I. shall support the amendment moved by  Senator Amour. 
It seems a pity that there should be any more talk in connexion with the ratification of the sugar agreement. I had seriously considered not adding to the already large volume of talk, but it appears to be impossibleto convince those whodo not know anything at all about the sugar industry that certain things are . facts, and certain other things are con trary to facts. Therefore, I consider that it is essential that somebody who knows the industry intimately, has been associated with it since its inception, and hat taken a personal part in every phase of its development, should say something about it. I should first like to congratu late my colleague  (Senator Courtice).  who also has a very intimate knowledge of the sugar industry because of his long years of service and hard toil in connexion with it, both as an employee and as an employer, on the splendid job he made of his statement in this chamber this afternoon. I know that this agreement is going to be ratified. Practically every member of this chamber is in favour of it. This is the third time that I have had an opportunity in this Senate to take part in the debate on a bill containing the sugar agreement, and I consider it almost a tragedy that so many honorable senators are not sufficiently interested between times to make themselves acquainted with the facts of the industry. Every time that an agreement comes before us for ratification, we who have knowledge of the industry have to repeat the storyofitsdevelopment.Butsure with - the statements made in the course of this debate with regard to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. I propose to say a word or two about that aspect of the debate. The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is rendering a service to the greatest primary industry of this country. 
That is a fact. If it were not for the development of the sugar industry in the northern portion of Queensland, this Government's defence problem would be twice as difficult in that part of the continent as it is at the moment. The Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  knows that. The defence problem would be more difficult because, without the sugar industry, the portion of Queensland now under cultivation for sugar cane would be practically uninhabited, and there would not be in northern Queensland sufficient man-power to put up any sort of defence against invasion. Therefore, I repeat that the sugar industry is a most important Commonwealth primary activity, and that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited is rendering a very important service to the industry and the country. This fact will not be denied except, perhaps, by those who are totally unacquainted with the true position or too mentally indolent to make themselves acquainted with it. Why  Senator Johnston  aud other honorable senators who have spoken in this debate against the ratification of the agreement want to read all those wearisome details about the profits made by the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited passes my understanding, because the agreement has nothing whatever to do with the company. That enterprise finances the crop, which, this year will require at least £8,000,000 at a lower rate of interest than any financial institution in this country would be prepared to accept even under the agreement. It is true that while the industry was carried on* in Queensland by kanaka labour, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited made very heavy profits. One of the reasons for the original agreement was to make it impossible for the company to continue making such large profits from the handling of the crop. To-day," that company is not making huge profits out of the Australian portion of its business, despite what other honorable senators may say. Those honorable gentlemen who presented  U3  with n wearisome set of figures this afternoon and this evening have been told a dozen times that  if the  Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited made no charge at all for all that it is doing for  the  sugar industry, the cost of sugar would be affected to the extent of only 1/12 of a penny per lb. Some critics have said that the company has made millions of pounds out of the industry. That is not true. The important point to stress is what the company has put into the industry. As I have stated, it not only finances the crop, but it also refines the sugar - a process which, I have long contended, takes the best out of the sugar. But it must be refined, otherwise it will turn to molasses in the  bag3.  The grade of sugar commonly known as millwhites is sugar partially refined, but it does not meet the needs of the industry  bo  well as the complete process of refining. 
Besides financing the crop, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited also keeps a full staff of scientists who carry out important laboratory experiments with different qualities and varieties of cane in order to determine their sugar content and reaction under certain conditions. All this information is made available to the growers free of charge. The Queensland Government, too, employs an army of scientists and experts to watch every stage of the industry from the planting of the cane to the refining of the sugar. Although the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited renders this valuable service to the industry, we have to listen to honorable senators, who ought to be better informed, making unjustifiable charges about the company's profits and operations. It is true that the company is a monopoly, but objection to it on that score does not apply to its activities in connexion with the sugar industry in this country, though there may be grounds for criticism of the company in connexion with banking and shipping. Whether that is so, I do not know. The ramifications of the company are widespread beyond the borders of the Commonwealth. But we are not concerned with that aspect of its business. We are to-night debating the bill for the ratification of the sugar agreement. 
We are proud of the fact that Australia, under normal conditions,- is one of the most favoured countries on God's earth. To-day, having regard to the conditions in Europe, it is infinitely more favoured. In the light of the present world situation I need not enlarge on that matter. Those of us who were privileged to take part in pioneering social legislation in this country have good reason to be well- satisfied with the results. We have succeeded in establishing in this country - I do not attribute credit to any particular government because. I am not making any claim for party advantage, although I shall show, what Labour has done - industrial conditions and a standard of living that are not enjoyed in any other land. The Labour party was responsible for the White Australia policy, which has long since been  adopted as tlie national policy of Australia. 
The Labour party was not in existence when the White Australia policy was adopted. 
Stick to facts then. 
For some months past, I and other honorable senators have been receiving propaganda urging that the development of central and northern Australia be carried out with cheap coloured labour under white supervision. As I have said, we had to meet all these objections in our fight against the continued employment of kanakas in the Queensland sugar-fields. But we stuck to our guns, and events have amply justified everything that we had said. After three generations of white workers in the sugar industry, we have demonstrated that white men can not only stand the work in the tropics but also that they can do their work more efficiently than black labour ever did. Statistics for the tropical portion of Queensland indicate a higher standard of health there than in any part of Australia. This is a complete vindication of our White Australia policy. We have had this policy supported in high places. The late  Sir Edmund  Barton, one of the founders of federation, made it the theme of one of his greatest orations. I also remember well an  eloquent speech delivered, by  Sir John  Latham, the present  Chief Justice of the Commonwealth, shortly after his return from the goodwill mission to Japan some years ago. In this building, on the eve of his leaving politics,  Sir John  Latham told us some details of his visit to the East. I shall never forget what he said on that occasion. I differed from the right honorable gentleman on many occasions, but I cordially agreed with his last speech in this building. After describing- -his visit to Japan and other eastern countries - he spoke in words so eloquent as to impress a most vivid picture on our minds' - he told us that he was leaving the hurlyburly of politics to take up work in another sphere, and he urged members of this National Parliament of all shades of political opinion never to abandon the White Australia policy. We had to resort to all kinds of tactics to put that policy into operation. In every centre in Queensland the conditions were disgusting and' ' degrading. Nobody in the industry took any trouble to see whether the employees received decent food or clothing. In the streets of Mackay and Bundaberg, no white woman was safe after nightfall because the kanakas were really 'savages! 
I have witnessed the development of the industry from the time when the conditions were rotten. I saw Tully before an axe was put into the jungle that grew where the town now stands. Formerly it had a rotten grog-shop, and the conditions generally were evil. In the company of  Mr. Theodore,  who was then a prominent member of the Labour party, and Premier of Queensland, I was shown through one of the finest sugar mills in the world, and the most complete in the Southern Hemisphere. The cost of establishing it was £750,000. It is now surrounded by hotels that have hot and cold water laid on to every room. There are concrete roads and footpaths and every other indication of a high standard of civilization. This progress has been repeated in a dozen different centres, and it is all due to the conversion of this great industry from black to white labour. 
Some years ago a visit was paid tq Australia by a member of the staff of the International Labour Organization. He was born in "Western Australia, and secured a position in the Secretariat at Geneva as the result of a competitive examination. After spending some years there, he applied for holiday leave to visit his . parents in "Western Australia, and he was given extended leave to enable him to inquire into the legislation under which the sugar industry of Queensland is conducted. He was sent to me because I had taken some part in putting sugar legislation through the Queensland Parliament. He told me that in most' countries some of the principles of the Queensland legislation were in operation, but he desired to know what had led to the great success of the sugar industry under white labour conditions. He remarked that the almost universal opinion was that white men could not work in the tropics, and I told him of what had been accomplished in Queensland. Professor A. Grenfell Price, C.M.G., Mitt, F.R.G.S., of the University of Adelaide recently stated - 
Most important of all. we are beginning to realize that the greatest barrier to white settlement in the tropics is neither climate nor sickness, but the presence of vast masses of colored peoples, who, as we know from the history of the Kanakas in Queensland, lower the standard of living, create reservoirs of disease, and- form the means by which the whites can shirk doing the essential physical work. 
From Washington to the Equator, every American scientist I encountered said: "You Australians are the wisest people on earth with your ' White Australia Policy,' " and this dictum rests on indisputable facts. The health of white people in the Southern United States suffers appallingly from the presence of millions of negroes, while the West Indies and Central America are steadily going black. Jamaica, for instance, which once had thousands of white settlers, is now colored to 90 per cent. 
All of this indicates the necessity not only for standing four-square for a White Australia, but also that White Australia should stand behind the sugar industry. 
 Reference was made by '  Senator Johnston  to the percentage of aliens employed in the sugar industry. It is high time misconceptions were removed and untruths contradicted. The 1933 census returns showed that the population of Queensland is still from 96 to 98 per cent. British, including Australians born of British parents. I was surprised to hear  Senator Johnston  repeat timeworn untruths. Certainly, in some of the sugar areas, one sees persons of various nationalities. Innisfail, for instance, has a polyglot population. There one may see Chinese, Italian, Maltese, Indians and members of other races, but all of them do not work in the sugar industry. Their presence in Queensland is a responsibility, not of the State Government, but of the Commonwealth Government, which controls the immigration laws. 
The birth rate in the tropical areas of Queensland is higher, and the infant mortality lower, than in any other part of Australia. The population' has increased in northern Queensland during the last 25 years by 100 per cent., and that record is not equalled in any other part of Australia. According to the Minister for Health.  (Mr. Thorby)  the vital statistics of Australia present an appalling prospect. I have said that the Labour party has a national policy on which all parties are agreed, and even the Government will allow me to say that it, also, is in sympathy with the ideal which Labour has' set out to realize, of creating for every body a higher standard of comfort than is enjoyed in any other part of the world; Even our opponents agree that that is ari admirable ideal, and they sometimes try to promote it. 
During the comparatively short period of 150 years, Australia has built up one of the most wonderful dominions attached to the British Commonwealth of Nations. Its development has been more rapid than that of any other country having a similar population. This has been achieved because successive governments have had a definite policy designed to achieve that result. Of course, the Labour party has  endeavoured  to travel this road at a much faster rate than any other party. For instance, it stands for a policy of high protection, believing that to be essential for the encouragement of both primary and secondary industries. I was astounded to find that  Senator Johnston  and several other honorable senators are, apparently, prepared to do anything that will injure the sugar industry, the success of which has such an important hearing upon the economic development of this country. I was also surprised at the temerity of  Senator Allan  MacDonald. He did not commence to flagellate me until I had left my seat, but, when I reached the curtains, I happened to hear him mention the Leader of the Opposition, so I waited to hear the horrible tale that he poured out about my conduct in the chamber last evening. I know that it would give  Senator Allan  MacDonald some satisfaction if I told him a little story of what occurred last night, and if I said some unkind things about my two misguided friends who have recently become associated with a new political party; but I do not propose 'to do so. I assert most definitely that I do not intend to ask  Senator Allan  MacDonald for his advice as to when I shall leave this chamber or return to it, or what my line of conduct shall be while I am here, because he is the last person whom I would ask for advice. I am not in the habit of hitting below the bell ; but I did say somewhat heatedly this afternoon that the honorable senator would not wait to hear what I had to say in reply to the charges which he made. T am pleased that he is now in the chamber, and that my remarks do not upset .him.  His  .onslaught upon me was vigorous; but any skill I have acquired in the fisticuffs of debate is due to long practice against critics of his type. 
During the debate a good deal has been said concerning the poor grocers and the degree to which they suffer as a result of the price at which sugar is retailed. I have every sympathy with struggling tradesmen. I have every reason to be sympathetic,  because for a number  of years I was one of them. There is no phase of this iniquitous financial system under which we live that I have not been through, and in which I have not been wrung almost dry. I worked for employers for half a century, very often under rotten conditions, and subsequently in improved circumstances and for better wages, but when I was elected to this chamber I received the highest remuneration and enjoyed better conditions than I had ever experienced previously. So I realize fully the bitter plight of thousands less fortunately placed. What are the facts with respect to those engaged in the grocery trade? It is well that those who advocate the claims of certain sections of the trading community should realize that the agreement we are discussing has nothing whatever to do with the retail price of sugar. It is true that it contains a provision which liberalizes the definition of " wholesaler ". It is interesting to note that no honorable senator was bombarded with literature by the combines of grocers in our principal cities and towns until this great international conflict appeared imminent, and it was thought that our primary products were to be disposed of overseas. These people then came into the picture, because they wanted to be in on the " rake-off ". I do not, of course, include the small grocers. If honorable senators study the letterheads on the correspondence they have received, they will see how many small grocers had any hand in the agitation. We all know how these rackets are worked up. No grocer stocks sugar because of the profit he makes on it. Drapers do not stock calico because of the profit derived. Sugar and calico are lines in common demand which storekeepers must stock. Some one asked this afternoon what would happen if grocers refused to sell sugar. Shopkeepers who refused to do so would losetheir trade, because cus- tomers wouldgo to those stores where they could obtain their requirements. Sugar is handled more easily, perhaps, than any other commodity in the grocery trade. Fifty years ago I was employed in a shop, and whenever the assistants were idle the boss would tell us to get busy and parcel up sugar. The sugar would be tipped into the bins and then done up in packages of varying weights. If a customer wanted 1 lb. of sugar it would be obtained from the lower shelf, if a 2-lb. packet was required it would be taken from another shelf, and so on. Sugar was parcelled at slack periods and no additional cost was involved. Those who speak of the small profit made on sugar do not tell us that a grocer's stock of sugar is turned over at least once a week, or 52 times a year, whilst the balance of his stock is not turned over at anything approaching that rate. There are some commodities for which there is only an occasional demand, but for which money has to be expended in order to provide a. stock. Under the agreement a bona fide wholesaler must buy each month in the year sugar to the value of £1,500, and pay cash for it. Sugar has to be delivered in every capital city - Darwin is now included - at the same price. An honorable senator asked what would be the position of a grocer 600 miles from the railhead. Every one knows that in exceptional cases a higher price is charged. The price at Camooweal, say, is not 4d. per lb., because the cost of transport is heavy. The average retail grocer selling sugar at 4d. per lb. is making a profit of 15 per cent. That is the gross profit, and includes overhead. But surely he does not saddle his sugar purchases with an overhead equal to that of other commodities which he turns over only once in a season. Some one said that the late  Mr. Deakin  was the only orator who had the capacity to make figures interesting, but I am convinced that Deakin's mantle did not fall on  Senator Johnston  because he made his recital of figures excruciating agony. One honorable senator said that since 1915 the price of sugar has increased by 68 per cent. 
The facts are that since 1915 the price of all commodities in Australia has risen 68 per cent., but in that period the price of sugar has increased by only 33 per cent. 
Senators should not overlook the fact that Australia is now at war, and one of the greatest needs of the nation in its hour of trial is primary products. The British Government has asked Australia to export more sugar than in recent years, and to increase its production.  Senator Johnston  said that he had seen fertile lands adjacent to sugar mills lying idle because the owners could not obtain a permit to grow sugar. That is evidence of the statesmanlike way in which the industry is conducted. It was essential, in the interests of the industry, that production should not be expanded unduly, and the Labour Government in Queensland, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Government, took steps to prevent overproduction. When a settler takes up land adjacent to a sugar mill he knows that he cannot grow sugar, or have 1 oz. of cane processed, until he obtains the necessary permit. One honorable senator referred to Nambour, which is not a good sugar district, but in that locality the growers have never been able to produce sufficient cane to keep the mill fully occupied. Under normal conditions, every ton of sugar exported reduces the financial return which the growers receive. The greater the quantity sold at world parity the smaller the amount available for distribution amongst the growers. 
Yes; but whether it be clause 10 or clause 110, when a similar agreement is submitted for ratification the same bedtime stories will again be told, and some one else will perhaps have to do the job which I am doing to-night. I know that as a result of the development of the industry hundreds of miles of main road have been constructed in the sugar districts, and that general improvement has resulted from associated activities. I know the privations experienced by those who  pioneered the industry. To-day we are aware of the degree to which conditions have been improved. If unholy, misunderstanding, and ill-informed interests get their hands on this industry, even to the degree of preventing the ratification of this agreement, tremendous harm will be done to not only the individuals in the industry, but also the nation itself. To-day, the more sugar we export, the more quickly shall we level up our overseas trade balance. We can do that job effectively only by exporting more, and importing less. In any case, I should have imagined that the present time was the least opportune for any honorable senator to select in order to harm this valuable industry. 
I am certain that when the vote is taken on the question now before the Senate, an overwhelming majority will be recorded in favour of a continuance of this industry, which is proving for the first time in the world's history the capacity of the white man to work in the tropics. When Lord Lothian, who is now the British Ambassador to the United States of America, visited Queensland in 3938 and was told of what we were doing in the sugar industry he said, "Ah, yes, but wait until you get to the second and third generations, and see how they deteriorate ". To that observation I replied, " The third generation is now at work in the cane-fields ". I then gave him the health statistics which I have just given in a general way to honorable senators. Again, I say that this is 'the least favorable opportunity for any one to attempt to injure the great sugar industry. It is impossible to get the price of sugar lower than it is, because none of the costs in any section of the industry can be further reduced without injury to the growers, workers, business generally, and the nation. My final word to honorable senators is to remember that, whenever they are handling this great industry, they are handling the only industry in the wide, world which has yet been covered through all its ramifications by legislative enactment, based on agreements like the one which we are now asked to ratify, from the time the cane is planted until the last ounce of sugar is refined and ready for transport to those who wish to dispose of it. 
 I have spok,n, usually at length, upon every occasion that the sugar industry has been discussed in the Senate during the last 23 years. I was strongly inclined not to take part in this debate, but, owing to the position which I occupy as a cane-grower, a shareholder in a farmers' co-operative mill, and an official in a strong employers' organization of sugar-growers and mill-owners, I am afraid that were I to remain silent on this occasion, my conduct would be misunderstood. I congratulate most sincerely  Senator Courtice  on his excellent contribution to this debate.  His  speech was comprehensive and lucid, and in every detail it was strictly accurate. 
So far as it has proceeded, the debate has been more favorable to the sugar industry than any previous debate which I have heard on sugar. That should certainly he so, because undoubtedly the sugar industry has rendered great service to Australia. Notwithstanding that fact, however, hostile criticism of the industry was recently voiced from an unexpected quarter. I refer to the remarks made over the national broadcasting network by  Mr. E.  A. Mann, who is more generally known as " The Watchman ". Among other things, he said that it was wasteful to produce sugar in Australia because if we bought it from other countries we should save sufficient to pay for the whole of the petrol which we now import. As honorable senators are aware much discussion has taken place recently on the subject of rationing of petrol, chiefly with a view to improving our dollar exchange. Bearing that fact in mind, what effect would the importation of sugar from, say, Java or Cuba, have upon our dollar exchange? At the present time we are producing annually for home consumption sugar which would cost us about £7,000,000 to import. If we imported it, we should be obliged to export other goods to a corresponding value. ' At the same time we export sugar to the value of about £6,000,000 annually, and consequently our exchange position and trade balance are improved to that degree. Therefore, if we were importing sugar instead of  producing it in Australia for home consumption and for export, we should be approximately £13,000,000 worse off. However, another important factor has to be considered in this connexion: Experts say that this sum of £13,000,000 is turned over ten times, thus increasing the sugar money annually in circulation in Australia to £130,000,000. We can visualize what would be the effect of withdrawing this money from circulation.. So soon as I wa3 informed of the statement broadcast by  Mr. Mann,  I protested, because I regarded such criticism as an abuse of the position he occupies, as a commentator for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I was very glad to learn subsequently that  Mr. Mann  will not again be permitted to bear false witness against a great industry over our national stations. 
Of course, I shall not vote for the amendment proposed by  Senator Amour.  I hold no brief for the mill-owners or the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. Nearly 30 years ago I was a member of a royal commission appointed by  Mr. Andrew  Fisher when he was Prime Minister, and after that commission had made a most exhaustive inquiry into the industry, I presented a minority report in which I referred to the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited as follows. - 
Tlie evidence reveals that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited occupies a commanding position in the industry secured by steadily pursuing for a long course of years, a policy which has won for it the confidence and goodwill with practically the whole of those with whom it has had any business dealings. There is nothing to indicate that any of the company's transactions have been in the slightest degree of a predatory character. Amicable relations exist between the company on tlie one hand and the manufacturers of raw sugar and the purchasers of refined on the other. That the company earns large profits both within and without the Commonwealth, appears to be entirely due to the volume of its business, command of adequate capital, complete utilization of hy-products, thorough organization. able administration, and high efficiency in' every department. 
I do not think that more could be said in praise of any other industry or business organization in Australia to-day. Although my report was published nearly 80 years ago and has since been 'in circulation, no successful -attempt has been made to refute the remarks which I have just quoted. 
During the last war, sugar was sold in Australia at a lower price than in any other part of the world. That, of course, greatly assisted those who required sugar as a raw material for manufacture, including manufacturers of jam, canned fruits, confectionery, soft drinks and beverages which are more or less intoxicating. Those manufacturers were thus enabled to conduct their businesses very profitably. We find that shares in canning, jam manufacturing, confectionery and brewery companies, are quoted at prices substantially above par. At the present time, the price of sugar in this country is lower than it is in any other country. It appears., therefore, that there is nothing to complain of, and I am glad that honorable senators appreciate that fact. Something has been said with regard to the effect which the industry has had on population. According to the latest census figures, the tropical part of Queensland carries a population of more than 240,000 people of European descent. Of that number, 96,000 are under 21 years of age, and it is fair to assume that at least a large proportion of those young people were born and bred north of the Tropic of Capricorn. In comparable latitudes in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, there are fewer than 10,000 white people to-day. The Leader of the Opposition said that from infancy upwards the health of the residents of north Queensland compared more than favorably with the health of residents in other parts of Australia. I shall give an example of that fact: A few months ago two intimate friends of mine celebrated the 72nd anniversary of their wedding, and they are still in good health-. Our district is under some obligation to these people because our co-operative mill company employs two of their sons, one as general manager and the other as' chief engineer. I have no doubt that nt present many skilled tradesmen are being trained in the sugar mills of Queensland, because every one of those mills has a comprehensive workshop in which apprentices are employed. A number '.of these apprentices are available now to help provide the. skilled labour necessary to enable us to  make a proper war effort. A misrepresentation which  i3  frequently made with regard to the sugar industry is in connexion with the amount which that industry has received by way of bounty. I point out that to date, the sugar industry has not received a penny piece by way of bounty. For some years after federation an excise of £4 a ton was collected on all sugar manufactured in Australia, and if the producers observed the labour conditions laid down by the Minister foi Trade and Customs, they received a rebate of £3 a ton. The result of that legislation  wa3  that the difference between the excise paid by the producers, and the rebates which they received, amounted to no less than approximately £2,692,000. In 1916, while the Commonwealth Government was handling both the purchase and sale of sugar, a profit of more than £4100,000 was paid into Consolidated Revenue, so that in a few years, instead of receiving anything from the Federal Treasury, the sugar industry directly contributed to it more than £3,000,000. Yet it has been said that the sugar industry was bountyfed. 
Only passing reference has been made to the benefit which the fruit industry receives under the present arrangement. The Emit Concessions Committee consists of one representative of the Queeusland sugar industry, one representative of the Commonwealth Government, one representative of the fruit-canner3, one representative of the jam manufacturers, and two representatives of the fruit-growers. The sum which has been set aside to assist the fruit-growing industry is administered by this committee upon which the sugar industry has only one representative. Referring to the benefits accruing to the fruit industry from this contribution by the sugar industry, a report of a statement by  Mr. Feil,  one of the representatives of the fruit industry on the Fruit Concessions Committee, stated - 
Especially may T stress its importance to the berry fruit-growers of Tasmania., as it ensures the continuance of special concessions in the price of sugar to the fruit industry. 
As an illustration of the value of these concessions,  Mr. Feil  cited a year's bounty of £10 a ton on berry pulp ex- ported overseas. This permitted from 500 to 700 tons of otherwise unsaleable pulp to be exported, thus clearing the local market of embarrassing surplus stocks. It is noteworthy that no complaint whatever in regard to the sugar agreement has been made by the fruit industry, cither on the manufacturing side or the. growing side. I am satisfied that the renewal of the agreement in its present form is desired by all who are depending upon the Australian industry for the sugar they require in various forms of manufacture. 
 It is not my intention to support the amendment moved by  Senator Amour.  For a number of years I have followed very closely the various inquiries made into the sugar industry of Queensland, and t think that there is sufficient information available already to guide honorable senators in casting their votes for or against the renewal of the agreement. At the same time, 1 welcome this discussion because there ar« many aspects of this agreement, and many phases of the sugar industry with which I at least was unacquainted until this debate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  took us to task for not having in our possession the information which he has at his fingertips owing to his long association with the industry. I point out to  Senator Collings  that some honorable senators have not had the same opportunity to examine the operations of this industry as he has had through long residence in the State in which most of Australia''! sugar is produced. For that reason, perhaps  Senator Collings  will excuse our comparative ignorance of this subject. 1 have endeavoured to keep in touch with the findings of the various tribunals, but. after all, there is a vast difference between reading the findings of royal commissions, and having been associated- with an industry from its infancy. Like other honorable senators who have spoken, during this debate, I take great pride in the f actthat we have in Australia a sugar-growing industry - cane sugar, too - ops/rate'.! solely by white labour. That is a wonderful achievement. I remember well i.b«controversy which raged throughout Australia in pre-federation days concerning  the possible repatriation of black labour then employed on the Queensland sugar.fields. The removal of tlie kanakas from this country was a condition of the union, and as a young Australian, I was most anxious at that time to see this country made, and remain, a white man's country. The remarks of honorable senators during this debate have brought home to us the fact that even to-day there are difficulties associated with this industry which is responsible for providing Australia with best grade sugar at a price less than that ruling in most, if not all, countries of the world. It is true that sugar from large refining countries such as Cuba and America can be landed in England at 3d. per lb., but I point out that, under war conditions, the people of Britain cannot buy sugar at that price. In fact, it is costing them  5 1/2 d.  per lb. It is obvious, therefore, that we can pride ourselves on having a white-produced sugar which is supplied at a reasonable price to the people of Australia. The Senate is now asked to renew the sugar agreement, and I am prepared to support the bill, realizing that in casting that, vote, I have to satisfy not only myself, hut the people whom I represent, that the agreement is an equitable one. In years gone by the agreement was frequently misrepresented, and I regret thatmuch of that misunderstanding was due to the activities of certain people, interested in politics, when the agreement was about to be signed. When  Mr. Scullin  entered into the agreement in 1931 the Labour party was attacked from one end of Australia to the other. It was stated that the Labour Government had inflicted an injustice upon the people of this country. Of course, the allegations were made purely for political purposes. We know that the Governments of the Common wealth and Queensland are doing the right thing in asking this Parliament to ratify the agreement for a further term. It is just as well to stress this fact in order to avoid future misunderstandings. I say this because, when the secession movement was sweeping over Western Australia, one of the; outstanding complaints against federation was the heavy subsidy being paid by the Commonwealth for the privilege of having a sugar industry carried on by white labour. The people of Western Australia were told that they were paying a high price for the maintenance of Queensland sugar-growers in a profitable industry, and that if the State were not in the federation its people would be able to buy sugar from Java or elsewhere for £14 a ton. 
We must view this industry from the Australian point of view. I hope that the vote in the Senate to-night will give evidence of a national outlook, and 3 shall expect the Senate later to adopt the same attitude in connexion with the development of the iron ore deposits in Western Australia, or the assistance of gold-mining or any other industry in thai State. Let us, in this Parliament, develop an Australian outlook in respect of all these things. If we do not, we shall continue to live in watertight compartments, and the people of Western Australia will remain out in the cold. They have been in the cold long enough. They desire now to share a little of the economic warmth engendered in the eastern States through the establishment of successful secondary industries. 

 Senator Amour raised a number of issues, such as the conditions and rates of pay in the sugar industry, using them as a reason why there should be an investigation by a royal commission. I also have examined the available material which, as honorable senators know, is ample, and I am aware of the provisions covering award rates and conditions of labour. I intend to vote against the amendment. 
This is the second opportunity I have had to take part in a debate on the sugar agreement. On the first occasion I approached the subject with somewhat mixed feelings, because the State which I assist to represent in this chamber did not have a very kindly feeling towards the sugar industry. But during recent years I have been privileged to visit Queensland, and I gave particular attention to the sugar industry, visiting a number of mills and making other investigations. As a result of my inquiries I am satisfied that the agreement is in the best interests of the people, and I intend to support, the hill. I admit that the amendment submitted by  Senator Amour  has some merit. As the honorable gentleman now speaks as the leader of a party representing about 50 per cent, of the Labour representation of New South Wales in this chamber, I assume that he would not make statements without some warrant. Nevertheless, I do not feel disposed to support his amendment for the simple reason, as has been pointed out already, that an investigation by a royal commission would be expensive as well as unnecessary. Already three comprehensive inquiries have been made, and all the requisite information is available for any revision of the agreement which  Senator Amour  may consider desirable. In this debate we have heard a good deal about the operations of the Colonial Sugar Refining  Company Limited. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  stated that the agreement had nothing whatever to do with the company. He then went on to tell us that the company financed the sugar crop from the planting of the cane to the production of the sugar. This being so, I take it that the company has a good deal to do with sugar growing. The honorable senator also pointed out that if the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited did all this for nothing, the difference in the price of sugar would bc less than $d. per lb. 
The honorable gentleman also said that it would not make any difference to the price of sugar. I cannot follow his argument. It may be true., as he has stated, that if the work were done for nothing, the price of sugar per lb. would not be materially affected, but in the aggregate the amount involved ' would represent £1,000,000. Therefore I submit that it is idle for any one to argue that if the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited rendered this service to the industry for nothing no  difference would be made to the price of sugar. 
; What ai-o its other activities? 

 Senator JAMES MCLACHLAN.Nevertheless, I do not think my calculations are wrong. I also wish to say something in defence of the grocers of Australia. This agreement fixes the wholesale price for sugar, and therefore it affects retail grocers. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition said about the grocers coming into the field as profiteers because of the war- 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The honorable senator said that these complaints from the grocers would not have been heard except for the war. We are proud of our White Australia policy and our standard of living. The Leader of the Opposition made a boast to-night that between 96 and 98 per cent, of the sugar-growers in Queensland are British. I tell him that 99 per cent, of the grocers in Australia are British, and are as much entitled as is any other section to a reasonably good standard of living. 
-Two honorable senators to-night declared that retail grocers in Australia were making 15 per cent, profit on the sale of sugar. I deny that statement emphatically. If any grocer is making 15 per cent, on sugar, the sooner an inspector of weights and measures visits his establishment the better. This talk about a profit of 15 per cent, is sheer nonsense. The agreement should contain a provision enabling retail grocers to obtain some advantage from the fixed price for sugar instead of the rebate allowed to what may be termed " wholesale buyers ". In order to attract other trade, the larger grocers in our capital cities practically give sugar away. This practice is unfair to suburban grocers who have to  handle sugar  as an every-day commodity. If they do not they lose trade because customers goelsewhere. The Prices Commission should fix both maximum, and minimum prices. .1 do not think it is fair that this protected industry should be., made: the plaything of tradesmen or politicians. 
Complaints voiced by the retail grocers should have the earnest consideration of the Government or of the Sugar Board. I cannot support the amendment, for the simple reason that the appointment of a commission would be a waste of money, and also because I believe that the agreement is in the best interests of Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition, speaking on another measure a few days ago, stated that he would like to see the flour tax abolished. If I were to take the same attitude to this agreement which benefits so greatly the sugar industry of Queensland, the honorable gentleman would feel somewhat disturbed, as I was disturbed when I heard him speak in such a hostile manner about the flour tax, which confers a benefit on the wheatgrowers of this country. 
Then why did the honorable senator say that he would like to sec the flour tax a bolished ? 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The wheatgrowers have as much right to consideration as have workers in other industries. If it is right to subsidize the sugar industry, it is right to impose a flour tax for the assistance of the wheatgrowers. 
.- My only criticism of this bill is that, in my opinion, the grocer is entitled to a little larger return than he now receives for handling sugar. I regret that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  made a violent attack on grocers generally. If some assistance could be given to them without -inflicting hardship upon the consumers, that should be done. From many sources we hear of the high cost of the sugar lands of Queensland. No doubt the interest charges on the high-priced lands on which sugar is grown affect the cost of production. I desire to know whether, if the growers could get their land at more reasonable rates, they would be able to produce sugar at a lower cost, and thus get more for themselves out of the industry. Is the permit system, which operates in Queensland, bolstering up the price of sugar lands? As in the case of other primary producers, I think that a good deal of trouble has arisen in Queensland from the fact that, when the price of sugar overseas has risen, the growers have been induced to pay prices for land beyond those justified by its productive capacity. If I could be re-assured on this point, I should have no desire to do anything likely to interfere with the living conditions of the sugar-growers. I have been told that the cost of land on which sugar is now grown was ?3 or ?4 an acre, when it was used for grazing. The price has now increased to ?100 an acre. 
Originally, of course, some of the sugar land was mostly scrub country. We should not renew the agreement from time to time, if its effect is to force up the price of this land against the interests of the growers. 
The debate has been most interesting and illuminating. It is contended in various quarters that the sugar agreement has a detrimental effect upon two sections of the community. We frequently hear that the sugar monopoly in Queensland is responsible for the exploitation of the worker, because of the enormous profits made in the industry. It has been said that the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited participates greatly in the profits that come from the industry; but, during the discussion, we have been informed that the operations of this company play a very small part in determining the price of sugar. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator McLeay),  in his remarkable secondreading speech, suggested that the conditions of the growers in Queensland are not so rosy as one might imagine. We have been told by those best able to inform us on the matter that the agreement has brought security to those employed in the industry, and has eliminated coloured labour. The withdrawal of kanaka labour from Queensland was strongly opposed, and it is gratifying to know that the development of our sub-tropical areas with white labour has proved a success. I whs particularly pleased to note the -p iri red manner iu which  Senator (  Crawford addressed himself to this bill, lie acquitted himself in a manner that surprised me. A glowing picture has been painted of the remarkable progress of the sugar industry and the stability that has come to Queensland as a result of this agreement, yet the Minister informed us that over SO per cent, of the cane-growers are on the verge of bankruptcy. He said that 81.3 per cent, of the growers had no taxable income. Although we are told that the industry is worth millions of pounds to Australia, we are assured that the growers would become bankrupt if the price of their product were reduced by  id.  per lb. Can the Minister's statement be true? Does the wonderful picture which has been painted for us depict the real conditions existing in Queensland? "Which side of the story are we to believe? Tt has been suggested that we should not believe the propaganda which has been placed before us by the retail grocers, that their story is not deserving of credence, chat these people are mercenary, and are simply taking advantage of the fact that the nation is at war. I suggest that we  have as  much reason to believe their story as that presented to us by the other side. 
As a member of the Labour party, I am interested in this matter, particularly from the point of view "of. two sections of the community; and the Labour movement as a whole should be equally interested on behalf of those sections. "We believe that no man should be obliged to sell his labour at less than a fair remuneration. No tradesman should be asked to work at a loss. The man who is performing the useful function of distributing various commodities, should be adequately repaid for his labour. The retail grocers have not now requested an increase of their margin of profit on sugar because we happen to be at war, but because this Parliament is now reviewing the agreement, and unless action be taken at this stage nothing can he done towards meeting their request for at least another five years, which is the duration of the -agreement. 
The point I emphasize is that in spite of all the praise which has been bestowed upon this measure, the consumer - and he is the person in whom every Labour man should be interested - is not protected under the agreement which will become the law of the land. 
That, of course, is tlie argument advanced by honorable senators opposite. I point out, however, that under the National Security Regulations the Commonwealth has empowered a commissioner to fix prices. We appreciate the fact that the National Security Act, and the regulations made by virtue of that legislation, will remain valid only for the duration of the war and one year beyond. But for the duration of the war, at any rate, this Government has been given far greater powers than it possesses in a time of peace. Consequently, during the period of the war, and for one year after it, the price-fixing commissioner can increase the price of sugar. What I now desire to obviate Ls the possibility of the consumer eventually being compelled to meet the demand that is now being made by the retail grocers for an increase of the price in order that they may be enabled to sell sugar at a price fair and reasonable to them. I wish to prevent such a development for two reasons: First from the viewpoint of the consumer; and secondly, from the viewpoint of industry as a whole. Consumers fall into two classes. An increase of the price of sugar will possibly not affect one ,of these classes. However, if such an increase be made it will affect industry generally. One section of consumers is comprised of workers whose wages are governed by awards of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. These will not be affected by any increase of the price of sugar because, should any increase occur, a corresponding adjustment of the wages of these workers will be made quarterly, and the increase will thus be made good to them. The Commonwealth Statistician estimates that an increase of Id. per lb. of the price of sugar will mean an increase of  the basic wage by ls. a week. An effort is being made to stabilize our economy and to counteract the evils of war-time conditions. Yet, in this particular measure, by failing to provide some provision whereby the- request of the retail grocers can be met, we arc running the risk of incurring an increase of the basic wage and, consequently, as t have said, dislocation of our economy. 
The wages, or incomes, of the second set of consumers are not determined by wages boards or arbitration courts. No fluctuation takes place in the incomes of such classes as old-age and invalid pensioners, and those who, to-day, are on sustenance rates. We can also include in this group of consumers those who derive a fixed income from investment. I refer now, of course, to those who derive only a very limited income from such sources. Any increase of the price of sugar will not be made good to these classes. 
The price of sugar will not be increased. 
Does the honorable senator believe that the price should he increased ? 
That means that the price should be increased. 
provide reasonable credit facilities for retailers on a comprehensive range of groceries; (ii) keeps reasonable stocks of such groceries for resale to retailers; and (iii) buys in each calendar month not less than £1,500 worth of sugar and other sugar products. 
The Minister claimed - 
That this arrangement, which defines the basic functions of a wholesale merchant, is expected to enable all existing anomalies to bc adjusted. Wholesale merchants are essential in the grocery business, but the two governments consider it should be their own affair, or the affair of their associations, as is the ease in regard to practically all commodities other than sugar, to devise means of preventing their members from giving .away part of the sugar discount or other equivalent concessions on sugar orders, to retail buyers. 
That statement suggests that it is possible for one set of retailers to receive advantages over another set of retailers. 
While this agreement is now under review, why does not the Government go further into the matter in order to see whether it is not possible to ensure a position under which it will be impossible for favours to be bestowed on one section and not on another. It would thus place the distribution of this commodity on a proper basis, and every section interested in the handling of sugar would be satisfied. I repeat that the Government should have gone further with the object of doing justice to the retail grocers. I hope that when the measure is iu committee, some effort will be made to rectify this anomaly. All of us desire to do the fair thing by the industry. We admire . the wonderful strides it has made, and appreciate its value to Australia. As I have already said, however, we do not wish to see it developed at the expense of any one section of the community. 
Is there any trouble in connexion with the production of beet sugar in Victoria? 
The Queensland sugar producers would have no objection if the beet producers would shoulder their share of the burden in respect of exports. 

 Senator McLEAY (South AustraliaMinister for Trade and Customs) desire to say that the amendment moved by  Senator Amour  cannot be accepted. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Amour's amendment)  bc left out. 
There being an absolute majority of senators present and no dissentient voice, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
SAXES TAX BILLS (Nos. 1 to 9) 1940. 
Second Readings. 
I move - 
That the bills be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators were advised in the financial statement which I made earlier of the Government's proposal to increase the rate of sales tax from 6 per cent as at present to8 per cent., i.e.,1d. in each shilling. The additional revenue which is estimated to be obtained from this action will amount to £5,000,000. The revenue estimated to be collected if the existing rate were maintained in the year 1940-41 is £13,000,000. At a rate of 8 per cent. it is estimated that £18,000,000 will be secured. 
It may seem to some honorable senators that the additional revenue to be derived from sales tax could have been obtained by methods other than an increase of the rate, and if one considers simply the bald fact that, for the financial year 1940-41, the total sales of Australian commodities has been estimated to amount to approximately £750,000,000 it would seem relatively simple to impose sales tax on sufficient of those goods to enable a relatively small rate of tax to be maintained. It is true that of the total of £750,000,000 only £215,000,000 will be subjected to sales tax. Attractive as the proposal appears at first sight, upon closer examination it proves to be fallacious. The total field of £750,000,000 contains exports amounting to £165,000,000; basic foodstuffs, £128,000,000; primary products, not including exports of foodstuffs, £26,000,000 and sales to Government departments, £40,000,000. These items represent a total of £359,000,000. 
Honorable senators will appreciate that basic foodstuffs, exported goods, and the other items which I have mentioned could be made subject to sales tax only in the last extremity. It will be seen, therefore, that the maximum amount of expansion which could have logically been made by the. Government in preference to an increase of rate is represented by the difference between the estimated taxable field of £215,000,000 and the field remaining after the deduction of the £359,000,000 to which I have previously referred. The difference is £176,000,000, and it might be well for us now to consider of what this £176,000,000 is composed. First, there is fuel, light, and power, amounting to £61,000,000. This item is not confined to fuel, light, and power used for business purposes, but includes all sales of such services. It includes the firewood which is used in private dwellings as well as the electric current and the gas with which the private homes of the citizens of the Commonwealth are supplied. Much of the two last-mentioned items is supplied by government bodies, semi-government bodies, or local governing bodies not concerned with profit making. The Government does not consider that the goods supplied in the course of rendering these services arc suitable subjects, at least at this stage, for the imposition of sales tax, and accordingly it does not propose to ask Parliament to impose sales tax on them. 
Then there is the sum of £17,000,000 represented by beer and other such beverages, tobacco, cigarettes, films, etc., all of which are already subject to special duties of customs or excise and are considered to bo proper subjects for those imposts rather than sales tax. It is thought that whatever extra taxation the Government considers those goods can or should bear should be imposed as duties of customs or excise. 
The remaining £98,000,000 is based as follows - 
to avoid taxing foodstuffs and goods  which directly increase the cost of living such as tea, coffee and cocoa, pastry, scones, footwear, &amp;c, £24,000,000. 
to give assistance to industries which otherwise might have to receive direct help, viz., agricultural machinery, mining machinery, building materials, equipment for the fishing industry, £48,000,000. 
to avoid raxing articles used in  medical, educational, charitable, philanthropic and religious activities, £12,000,000. 
to obviate the necessity for tax ing the containers used to market exempt goods ; to place manufacturers' consumable aids on the same footing as raw materials; and to avoid taxing small manufacturers. £14,000,000. 
The 'alternatives facing the Government resolved themselves finally into a question of the re-imposition of sales tax on the goods comprising this amount, coupled with a relatively small increase of the rate, or allowing the exemptions to remain and obtaining the whole of the requirements by an increase of the rate. The Government has chosen the latter course in the belief that the claims to exemption of the goods comprising the available £9S,000,000 are sufficiently strong to justify increasing the rate further before bringing them back into the taxable field. 
There are many people in the community who have strongly urged the imposition of a low rate of tax on the whole available field. I hope that the particulars which I have given to honorable senators of the composition of the total field will make it clear that whilst the present form of sales taxation is retained on the statute-book, such a course is not feasible. There are others in the community who advocate a multiple turnover tax at a very small rate. 1! do not think it is necessary for me to thrash OUt the relative virtues of each form of tax at this stage. It may be sufficient for me to say that all competent experts who have inquired into t,he incidence of multiple turnover taxes, wherever they have been tried, are convinced that there are greater disabilities from every one's point of view in that form of tax than in the form which wo have at present. 
The increased rate is designed to operate from the 3rd May, 3940, and traders have already had suitable notification given to them of the intention of the Government to introduce this measure so that the proper steps might be taken by them in the matter. 
I conclude by saying that the increased revenue which it is now proposed to obtain from the sales tax is due wholly to the unprecedented expenditure with which the Government is faced in connexion with the conduct of the war. Though the increase is substantial, I have no doubt that it will be accepted as part of the hurden which is inescapable if the principles for which we stand are to be preserved. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The proposals in this bill form part of the general scheme adopted by the Government to finance the war. The Government considers that it i3 necessary that the revenue from estate duty should be increased as part of its scheme. However, in framing the proposals, care has been taken that the increased, duties shall not be of a severe or onerous nature, having regard to the probate duties imposed by State governments on estates of deceased persons. 
The Government's proposals are estimated to produce an additional amount of £850,000 in estate duty in a full assessment year, but will probably not  produce  more than £500,000 during the financial year 1940-41, even taking into account the fact that they will apply to the estates of persons dying during the remaining few weeks of the present financial year. The smaller yield for the financial year 1940-41 is due t;o the fact that there is an unavoidable lag in the issue of assessments. Honorable senators will appreciate that an estate duty assessment cannot be issued within a few days of the death of a person. Executors have to be given a reasonable time within which to lodge a return- - the law allows three months - and the Commissioner of Taxation has to examine, and carefully check, such returns, particularly the valuations placed upon the assets of the estate. 
The Government's proposals involve a revision of the rates of duty, and an extension of the range thereof, together with a re-arrangement of the concession granted in respect of estates passing to the widow, children, and grandchildren of the deceased. This re-arrangement has increased the value of the concession in respect of estates in the lower ranges where it is really needed, while tapering it off as the value of the estate increases, and the need and justification for a concession lessens. 
The main purpose of this bill is to give effect to the Government's intentions  in regard to this concessional exemption. The new rates form the subject of a separate measure which will come before this chamber subsequently and will then be fully explained to honorable senators. 
The exemption granted in the existing act is the sum of £1,000, and it ceases if the estate exceeds this value. For example, an estate of £1,001 pays duty upon £1,001 and not upon £1 only. The benefit granted under the existing act in regard to estates passing to widow, children, or grandchildren is to assess them for duty at two-thirds of the rate imposed upon other estates. No regard is had to the question of whether the financial position of the estate warrants any such concession; that is, it is granted equally to the estate of £200,000 as well as to the estate of £2,000. Honorable senators will undoubtedly agree that while a concession is fully warranted in respect of the latter estate, in the case of the former, the beneficiaries would be in such comfortable financial circumstances that no justification could exist for any special concession which would lessen the duty payable on the estate. Consequently, the Government decided upon a complete overhaul of the concession granted to estates passing  to  the widow, children, and grandchildren of the deceased in order to make it more scientific and justifiable. In the bill the  concessional  exemption has therefore been framed to achieve this end. It is proposed to provide now alternative exemptions of decreasing amounts for estates passing to the widow, children, and grandchildren and for estates not so passing. In the latter case the exemption is £1,000, diminishing upon a sliding scale until it disappears when the value of the estate reaches £10,000. In the former case, namely, where the estate passes  to  the widow, children, or grandchildren, the exemption is £2,000, diminishing on a sliding scale until it disappears at £12,400. Appropriate provision has also been made for the estate passing partly to the widow, children, and grandchildren, and partly to others, so that the exemption granted in that case will be relative to the circumstances of the case.  The  effect of these provisions is  to give a concession  in duty to estates in the  lower  ranges, passing,  or partly passing, to the  widow, children,  or grandchildren of the  deceased, while at the same time confining it to the class of case in respect of which a concession is justified. 
The bill also contains a provision to exempt from duty the estates of members of  His  Majesty's Forces, or of the forces of an ally of theBritish Empire, who may die on active service during the present war, or within one year after its termination, if the value for duty of the estate does not exceed £5,000. The existing act contains a somewhat similar provision in regard to the estates of persons who died during the 1914-18 war; that provision, however, exempted the whole of the estate regardless of its value. While not prepared under the changed circumstances regarding the financing of the present war to grant the full exemption previously granted, the Government has decided to exempt such estates if they are in what might be termed the lower ranges. 
There is a provision in the bill amending the section in the existing act which gives executors power to apportion the duty between the beneficiaries. The provision is consequent upon the altered method of assessment of estates passing partly to the widow, children, or grandchildren and is a machinery provision not affecting in any way the assessment of such estates. 
The bill will come into force upon the day upon which it receives the royal assent. I commend it to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I was glad  when.  some days ago,  Senator Leckie  brought under my notice the fact that I had inadvertently done an injustice to  Mr. King  O'Malley in a speech which I delivered in this chamber  on  the 18th April last, when I said that he was not a member of the Ministry when the hill to establish Hie Com- . monwealth Bank was passed. I was speaking from memory, and as the act was passed 29 years ago, I may be forgiven for the error. I now wish to put the matter right.  Mr. King  O'Malley was Minister for Home Affairs in the Fisher Ministry which passed the Commonwealth Bank Bill. I wrote to him, expressing my regret for the mistake, and I received the following characteristic letter from him: - 
Brother d'Arcy, 
In your speech of the 18th April, 1940, you inadvertently declared in answer to Brother Herbert Hays, that King O'Malley was not a member of the Labour Ministry that established the Commonwealth Bank. If he were not, will you please name the man who put up a fight from 10 o'clock in the morning until a quarter past six o'clock in the evening and, after21 members went to dinner, won it by one vote. 
Yes! ! Brother.!! I was there in the Fisher  Ministry, and put up the all-day fight and was the only man who voted for the creation of the Commonwealth Bank. 
I am enclosing for you my booklet in which you will read the whole story of the fight on the 5th October, 1911. I forced the Government to put it in the policy that year. That iswhy you will findthatI offered £10,000 to charity if any' member of the Labour Ministry ever made a speech in favour of the bank up to the 5th October, 1911. 
Will you kindly read the booklet and will you also have this letter put in  Hansard. 
Cordially yours, 
The booklet which he mentions is entitled - 
Big Battle byhon.kingo'malley (Founder of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia)tosaveitfromdestructionby thepoliticaltoolsofcapitalism. [Published in 1939.] 
I hope that  Mr. King  O'Malley will accept my apology. 
There is one matter to which 1 wish to direct the attention of the Government. Under the national register taken last year, I understand that employees were asked to give complete particulars of their classes of employment. The purpose of the national register was to enable the Government to tabulate the categories of tradesmen and craftsmen, with a view to their utilization in connexion with war activities. It has been brought to my notice that turners and fitters have enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force and have left Australia. In view of the grave situation which now confronts us, following the latest developments of the war, there is a possibility of a serious shortage of skilled tradesmen for our defence factories. I urge the Government, if it has not already done so, to arrange for a close scrutiny of the tabulated information, with a view to ascertaining to what extent Australia's requirements may be met. 
No doubt it will,  but  I urge the Government to  see  that sufficient skilled operatives are kept in Australia for Australia's home defence. If fitters and turners have been despatched overseas in Australian Imperial Force units, they will be available there, and Australia will be without the services of men who may be urgently required. 
 in reply  - I assure the honorable senator that the matter which  he  mentioned will receive the close attention of the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On the 9th May I, as President, received the following telegram :  - 
Member:! of the First Federal Members Association at anniversary celebration to-day extend greetings and best wishes to all members present Federal Parliament. 
Hume Cook, President; 
W.G. Higgs, Secretary. 
I have sent a reply acknowledging the message and reciprocating the sentiments it contains. 
Will the Leader of the Senate state whether the Government intends to consider an increase of the invalid and old-age pensions, in view of the increased cost of living and the numerous requests honorable senators have received with regard to this matter? 
It is not the practice to give information regarding matters of government policy in reply to questions without notice. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
What progress has been made with the appointment of arbitration inspectors in respect of federal awards? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer .  - 
The examination of the applications has almost been completed, and it is expected that the appointments will be made in the course of the next few days. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that all applications from New South Wales trainees for exemption from compulsory military service arc decided in Melbourne ? 
If so, does the Minister think this procedure allows a fair examination of their cases ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. The decision is given either by the local area officer or at Head-quarters, Eastern Command. 
See answer to No. 1. 
Could a tribunal be set up in New South Wales to investigate applications for exemption from compulsory training ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
No power exists under the Defence Act to set up such a tribunal. Sections61a and 139 of the Defence Act and regulations 140c and 454 of the Australian Military Regulations make provision for appeals to courts . of summary jurisdiction with regard to exemptions from service in time of war or exemptions from training. Conscientious objectors have a further right of appeal under section61a to the Supreme Court of a State or the High Court. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice- - 
What number of applications has been received in Western Australia for enlistment in the Australian and Empire air schemes? 
What arrangements have been made, or are contemplated, for the training of these recruits in Western Australia? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers: - 
The number of applications received in Western Australia for enlistment in the Royal Australian Air Force is as follows: - Airmen, 7,303; aircrew, 1,590. Total, 8,893. Of these, 1,067 airmen have been enlisted and 505 are on the waiting list, making a total of 1,512 selected, while 430 have been selected for aircrew and 38 have commenced) training, making a total of 468. 2.No. 4 Recruit Depot has been operating since the 1st March, 1940. A small elementary flying training organization based on the Aero Club at Maylands has been operating since December, 1039. The following additional training units are to be formed in Western Australia: - No.5 Initial Training School, about July, 1940; No. 9 Elementary Flying Training School, December, 1940; No. 4 Service Flying Training School, February, 1941 ; No. 5 School of Technical Training for preliminary technical training ofRoyal Australian Air Force fitters, September,. 1940. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited some time ago secured a government contract to supply shell cases at 30s. each? 
Is it a fact that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited refunded to the Government after the completion of the contract 7s.6d. per shell case as conscience money? 
What is the estimated cost of similar shell cases manufactured at Maribyrnong Works- in "Victoria? 
SenatorFOLL.-  The Minister for 
Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 
It is greatly to the credit of the company concerned that, when it was learned that as a result of economies it was able to manufacture at a lower price than that contracted for, it voluntarily returned a substantial cheque representing the whole of the saving on the contract price. 
The cost of similar shells manufactured at Maribyrnong, when the contract was let to the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, was 25s. for labour and material, excluding overhead, interest on capital, depreciation,  &amp;c. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos. 1 to 9) 1940. 
Second Reading. 
Debate resumed from the 16th May,  (vide  page 908), on motion by  Senator McBride  - 
That the bills be now read a second time. 
Although the Opposition does not intend to delay the passage of these bills, I shall offer a few comments upon its attitude to some of the underlying principles of the sales tax. As I remarked during the debate: on the financial proposals, the Opposition considers that the Government should raise less revenue than it proposes to do by means of indirect taxation, and should make up the leeway by direct taxation. During the course of the previous debate, an interjection was made to the effect that I had probably forgotten which government introduced the sales tax, but I had not overlooked the fact that it was originally proposed by the Scullin Administration. In fairness to that Government it should be recalled that this tax was only one of the heroic and essential measures that it was forced to introduce when faced with a set of circumstances similar in intensity, perhaps, to those now confronting the present Government. Those emergency measures were agreed to by all parties, but it was generally recognized that as soon as the financial situation improved they should be repealed. I realize, of course, that this is not an appropriate time to talk about repealing the sales tax. 
I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  mentioned that the sales tax was introduced by a Labour government. It will be recalled that, when  Mr. Scullin  took over the reins of office from the Bruce-Page Administration, he found an empty treasury and an adverse trade balance of £30,000,000, whilst the London loan market was closed to Australia. This necessitated resort to a new form of taxation, and the sales tax was selected. The revenue raised by this means during the first and second years was not large, but to-day this tax yields about four times the original amount. I have said on many occasions that this heavy impost need not have been levied. 
Because he did not know as much as he should have known. I have told him that to his face. The report of the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems enlightened the people as to the power they have under the Constitution with regard to finance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time and reported from committee without requests or debate; reports adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bills read a third time. 
In perusing the bill I was pleased to notice that  the increase of  estate duties has been tempered, I think properly, to the widow, children and grandchildren ofa deceased male; to such consideration they are justly entitled. I am glad to learn that that important factor was not overlooked, because the burden imposed upon beneficiaries in that class should be made as light as possible. 
During the time  that I  was  a  member of the Parliament of South Australia and while I have been  a  member of the Commonwealth Parliament, I have shown determined opposition to the imposition of estate duties.  Although I  have never previously supported a bill of this description, the circumstances are now so exceptional that I consider it my duty to explain my reasons for not opposing this measure. The finances of the country are such, and the responsibility to the nation so great, that I believe that this measure is justified. That is the only reason which impels me to support this most despicable form of taxation. 
Yes, and I feel strongly on the subject. The Government has a perfect right to tax a man to whatever degree is necessary, while he is alive, but to tax dead men is most unfair. 
An Opposition  Senator. -  They have no votes. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Probably that is why this unjust impost is persisted in. There may be some justification for imposing this tax on estates of £100,000 or over; but there seems no reason why the tax should be imposed on the estate of the man who leaves a widow and a large family to fend for themselves. A farmer may  leave  his estate to his wife and a large family. The property is then valued by the authorities, say, during a land boom, at £9 or £10 an acre, and as land values fluctuate, it may happen that by the time his sons are old enough to work the farm, it is not worth one-fourth of the price at which it was valued for estate duty. 
Yes, but further relief is needed in many directions.  I  have known of estates being mortgaged in order to pay estate duty, and some have even had to be sold for that purpose.  I  register my protest against legislation of this character, and repeat that my only reason for supporting this measure is the urgent need for money  for  national defence. 
I  direct the attention of the Government to a serious development in connexion with the means adopted to obtain the revenue to conduct the gigantic struggle which we all realize must be carried to a. successful conclusion.  If  we should fail in that respect we might as well close the doors of our parliamentary institutions for ever. There appears to be an urgent necessity to coordinate the various means of collecting taxes from taxpayers, whether they be Federal or State taxpayers.  I  have always held that in normal times estate duty is one of the fairest methods of taxation, if proper exemptions are provided for persons on the lower rungs of the ladder of life.  I  do not refer only to what we usually term working men, but to all those in receipt of small incomes, who perhaps leave not more than the equivalent of the basic wage for their wives and families. Small estates should, as far as is practicable, be protected. If a man amasses a large fortune the country which afforded him the opportunity to do so has a moral right to expect that on his death the State shall receive something in return.  I  received during the last day or so from a well-known Sydney gentleman, of long political experience, who is a member of a firm  of  solicitors, a letter in which he asked me to bring under the notice of the Treasurer certain matters in connexion with the federal land tax. He hints at th, dangers that may arise if an indiscriminate plunge be made into the field of probate taxation, without having regard to other important factors. The letter reads - 
We draw attention to the unfair incidence of this impost in the absence of some provision to spread the payment of the tax amongst those who benefit from the property. A client of ours, under his father's will, in events that happened became the owner of a large city property in Perth. Under the will an annuity of £2,500 was left to his mother and in terms of the will the property was appropriated to provide this annuity. Allowing for non-lets, reduced rents, increased State land tax, increased rates, costs of renovations and the present land tax our client receives less than half the income (a varying amount) from the property. The federal land tax amounts to over £000 per annum and the doubling of same means that more than half his income from the property is taken from him. The foregoing omits all reference to further contributions by our client to the revenue in the form of income tax. 
The writer goes on to state that because of the prospect of federal land tax being almost doubled, he fears that the annuity under the will may be completely taken away. I appeal to the Government to consider that even in times such as these, when there is a necessity for almost panic taxation, methods of raising revenue, State and Commonwealth, should, so far as possible, be put on a humane and scientific basis. There should be equality of sacrifice in our effort to achieve the victory which is so vital to all of us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Exemption of persons dying on active service). 
.-^Clause 1 of this bill reads- 
The Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914- 1928 is in this act referred to as the principal act. 
The principal act as amended by this act may be cited as the Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914-1940. 
I am not clear as to which act  is  referred to. Clause 4 contains the following words : - 
. after all the deductions under this Act (except the deduction under section 18a of this act) have been allowed.. . '. . 
I should like to know where I can find the section 18a referred to. I think that something should be inserted there to show which act is meant. 
In the circumstances, I am unable to cast an intelligent vote on this measure. I have not before me a copy of the principal act. 
Apparently a precedent has been created for this wording, but I contend that we are here to break down precedents which tend to hamper the discharge of our duties. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7 agreed to. 
Title a.greed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
This rates bill is complementary to the assessment bill which we have just passed, and the Opposition has no objection to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without requests or debate; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
That should not be difficult. I refer the Assistant Minister to our experience in Queensland during the last twelve or eighteen months. In that State we had what was known as the system of relief work under which many thousands of able-bodied men were given jobs of little or no value to the community - such work as chipping weeds and shovelling sand out of gutters, only to be washed back in the first rainstorm. After this system had been in operation for some time, our wise Premier,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, a man of wide sympathies for all sections of the people and particularly the working classes, said to me one day - " Either we shall have to end this relief work system or it will mean the end of us ". As  Mr. Forgan  Smith . is essentially a man of action, he lost no time in giving effect to the Government's altered policy. Despite criticism which was levelled at him he abolished at short notice the relief work system, and instituted in its stead work of a useful character for the unemployed at award rates of wages. The difficulty anticipated was in respect of the classification of workers as willing or unwilling, so there is some point in the interjection made by the Assistant Minister for Commerce. But that difficulty, if it was a difficulty, was surmounted much to the satisfaction of all- Labour supporters, because the workers, when given the opportunity, sorted themselves out; so it was not long before relief work under the award conditions was withheld from men who, without good reason, refused jobs that had been offered to them. Under the new arrangement all labour was engaged through the Government Labour Bureau ; so i.f a man refused a job or left a joh without good reason, that fact was quickly made known and he was struck off the classification of willing workers. A man might have a very good reason for declining to accept a particular job offered to him. For instance, he might be a married nian with family responsibilities and if the joh offering were, say, 1.00 miles from his place of residence, he might be able to show that it would be impossible for him, out of the wages paid, to make proper provision for his wife and family. Again, a man might be able to show that he was physically incapable of performing the particular work that had been offered to him. In this way the workers sorted themselves out in a very few months, and it was soon discovered that in Queensland the residue of unemployable persons is very small. Such  persons are to be found in every community. 
Under wise Labour legislation in Queensland the unemployables and their dependants are given ration relief. 
I am quite sure that, in my second-reading speech on this bill, the Minister does not expect me to deal fully with all of the irrelevant issues which he may raise by way of interjection. I have already digressed somewhat lengthily, but I would emphasize that there are no insuperable difficulties in that problem. 
No ; but I do say that in Queensland the percentage of unemployed males' is lower than in any other State, the percentage of juveniles employed in industry is lower, the working hours in industry are snorter, the wages paid under arbitration awards are higher, and the purchasing power of tie £1 is higher than in any other part of the Commonwealth. 
All these things are true of .Queensland. In order to complete the picture of social conditions in Queensland, and to reply further to these interjections, I remind the Senate that the Government of my State has taken measures to train the workers in useful occupations. The Queensland Government, for instance, has established farm colonies where lads receive training as land workers. They also receive pay during the process. When the lads are trained sufficiently they are sent to approved farmers for employment and further experience. But before these lads are sent out to jobs careful inquiries are made by the government authorities as to the conditions and accommodation to be provided by the farmers, with the result that these lads go into good homes and are sure of decent treatment and fair wages. This is one of the ways in which the State Government is sorting out the employable from the unemployable in the community. The latter are at all times small in number, and I do not think that they constitute such a danger as those wealthy unemployed who render no useful service to the community and exploit the labour of those who do. 
Order! I should be glad to hear something about the bill. 
I turn once more to the bill. Of the 9,971 arrivals in this country to whom I have already referred, 3,421 were German refugees, with whom I have every sympathy. During the last few months I made several attempts to secure the admission to Australia of relatives of some refugees already here, but in most cases I have not been successful, although there was not the slightest likelihood of those relatives becoming a charge upon the community. In order to safeguard the Commonwealth, there should be a far closer scrutiny of the nationality of immigrants. The regulations dealing with naturalization should be radically altered. If care be exercised in the selection of migrants it should not be necessary to require a residence qualification of five years before they can become naturalized. If the authorities are satisfied as to the character of the migrant, naturalization should be encouraged within a shorter time. No wise government would allow the introduction to Australia of a single migrant about whose bona fides or nationality there was the slightest doubt. If the requirements which I have mentioned were met the new arrivals should be required to become naturalized at the expiration of one year or be deported. I emphasize also that an essential condition of naturalization should be a working knowledge of the English language. We ought to insist that every migrant should, within a reasonable time, acquire sufficient knowledge of the English language to meet his everyday needs, and we should discourage the continued use of their native language. 
We approve of this bill because we think it is necessary in existing circumstances. Many of its provisions have been too long delayed. I hope the bill will pass, and that the Minister will give serious consideration to some of the suggestions I have put forward. It is vitally necessary that we should overhaul our immigration policy, particularly in the light of knowledge recently gained. 
 I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that there is a need for overhauling now, and from time to time, our  naturalization laws. However, I do not think that he is consistent in advocating the reduction of the residential qualifications to one year, and then insisting that persons seeking naturalization should be required to have a knowledge of our language. I do not think that a foreigner could be expected to obtain a sufficient knowledge of the language in twelve months. 
There is, however, a still greater objection to the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition to reduce the period of the residential qualification. There is the danger that, in so short a time, it may not be possible to learn whether or not the immigrant is the kind of person who should be granted naturalization. Although all care may be taken to discover the qualifications of persons before giving them permits to enter Australia, it is not possible in that way to judge of their suitability so well as can be done by observing them while they are actually resident in the country. In my opinion, the law ought to be amended to provide for closer supervision of the conduct of immigrants and of their habits of life, so that the authorities might be better able to judge of the qualifications of aliens to become good Australians. This should be done before allowing them to become naturalized. I was interested to hear an expression used by the Minister who introduced this bill. Strangely enough, it was almost a repetition of one which I used in the course of a written controversy recently with a large firm of solicitors in Sydney regarding the behaviour of certain immigrants of German origin. There came into my possession information which forced me to believe that the behaviour of these persons, while not bringing them under the provisions of the criminal law, was such as to make them most undesirable as Australian citizens. I had to write complaining of i heir conduct and I had to choose whether to do it in a legal capacity, or in my capacity as a member in this Senate. I decided to make the demand more in my capacity as a member in the Senate, and 1 wrote expostulating with them, and protesting against their behaviour. In reply, I received a most abusive letter from one of the largest legal firms in Sydney, saying that the writer was amazed to think that I could descend so far as to use my position as a member of this Senate to frighten and intimidate unfortunate people who had come here from' the other side of the world. Honorable senators know that I have expressed my sympathy with such persons over and over again, but no one, whether a senator or a private citizen, has any need to apologize for demanding that immigrants observe a standard of conduct worthy of their position as residents of Australia. If they cannot rise to that, we do not want them here, and are better without them. I believe that I was justified in making the protest. I mention the matter now because of the coincidence that the words I used in the letter were almost the exact words used by the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  when introducing the bill last night, although there had been no discussion between ug on the matter. 
I direct the attention of the Minister to clause 7 of the bill, the purpose of which is to repeal a section of the existing act, and to insert another provision in its place giving the Minister certain powers to deal with immigrants found guilty of criminal offences. There is, however, a kind of civil behaviour which runs very close to criminal liability, and which makes of any immigrant who practises it a person undesirable as an Australian citizen. I repeat that, before naturalization is granted, there ought to be a much more rigid examination of the conduct of immigrants during their residence in Australia. I suggest to the Minister that the law might be amended to make provision for this. It ought not to be necessary for immigrants to commit a crime before rendering themselves liable to deportation. The behaviour of which I was complaining when I was attacked so savagely was not technically criminal, hut it was highly undesirable. The existing lack of control over, and supervision of, foreign immigrants is particularly dangerous. This is brought home to us by what happened so recently in Holland, where persons of Dutch origin had their loyalty tampered with because they became slaves to the ideology of nazi-ism. They yielded so far to temptation as to become traitors to their own country. There had been living among the Dutch large numbers of persons who had no right ever to have become citizens of Holland. Is it not possible that we have among us here many persons who have  no  right to bo citizens of Australia? 
Then I beg the Government to consider my proposal. It may be too late to incorporate in this bill a provision of the kind I have suggested, but I believe we should demand, before an alien is granted naturalization, the strictest proof of his proper behaviour, and hia right, to citizenship, which we regard as  one of  the highest privileges that can be given to a human being. 
The Government has more than once made itself the laughing stock of the world through the bungling of successive  Ministers m charge  of  immigration. Only a few years ago  ii  European intellectual named Egon Kisch was deported  from  Australia because he held political opinions different  front  those of the Minister for the Interior at that time. Although he could speak eight or nine languages, he was given a language test: in Gaelic, a language which he did not happen to know, in order to prevent him from entering Australia. I have a very strong objection to placing the power of deportation in the hands  of  any individual who may temporarily be Minister for the Interior. I shall have great pleasure in proving, I hope before this session ends, that one person was practically deported from Australia on evidence which was a "frame-up" by persons who are themselves fugitives from justice. 
Dealing with the case I have mentioned, the responsible Minister told us that he has a secret file which one may look at, but the contents of  vhich  mo may not disclose. Under the present system any "crook" may write to the Minister making a complaint in confidence against another person, and no public reference may be made to that complaint because it is confidential. 
Not in this matov.  I  hope that the Minister for the Interior will keep an eye on the activities of our enemies. His department recently admitted to Australia certain Germans, and I should like him to say bow many of them were males. The admission of refugees under our immigration laws has become a " ramp ", and graft is attached to it. 
If I am rightly informed by refugees who have paid money to solicitors to secure their entry into this country, graft has certainly been practised. 
I may have already done so. I am entitled to choose tuy own time to speak on this matter. 
No, but I claim that sufficient investigation is not; made with regard to migrants who are admitted. I instance the recent case of a Gorman residing at Rose Bay, near Sydney, who got, behind with his rent and became indebted to trades people. Nine days after the war broke out, he drove up to his quarters in a new Buick car, paid his debts and was in a position to purchase a poultry farm right under tho Pennant Hills broadcasting station. When I reported the matter to the department, the man was interned, and he  is  in custody to-day. 
No, but it admits these persons. 
Honorable senators may have read recently of a case in which a motor car was overturned on the Dorrigo hill. The car was driven by a man named Lars 
Brunsdahl. The next car behind it was driven by his wife, and an investigation showed that he was : travelling to Coff's Harbour to receive mail coming into Australia on behalf of the Nazis. On an envelope, under a large stamp, was a message in invisible :ink for friends of the Nazis in Australia. Another message, in in visible, ink, &gt; was written on the gum attached to .the envelope. After the accident, Brunsdahl was taken to hospital, and he was .afterwards interned. - This man had been admitted to Australia by the Department of the Interior. A man named Hagerdorn, who ran a business in Sydney under the name of Peatmoss, is a spy of the worst class.  Until recently, meetings were held at the Concordia Club in Sydney for social entertainment, but no male friends of the members were admitted. ' On those occasions the German Bund also held meetings. Hagerdorn had been admitted to Australia by the Department of the Interior, and, shortly after the war began, he was picked up in northern Queensland. E also draw attention to the case of a certain hotel-owner in Sydney. Prior to the war, this man happened to be in Berlin with his son. The hotel was falling into the hands of the breweries, those vested interests which this Government is pleased 'to protect. The hotel required repairs, and the owner sent his son from  Berlin to Australia to attend to the matter. It became known that the son was incapable of doing this, so his father came out from Berlin' and was also admitted into this country. The wife went from Berlin to Los Angeles. After the  Wai-  had broken out, both of these men were interned. They were very anxious to obtain their liberty, and a certain Sydney lawyer thought that hu could secure their release. I was approached by  an  agent for the purpose of getting them out. I visited the office of the Commonwealth Investigation Branch, and ascertained from the files that the son was born in Spain but had spent much of his time in Berlin, where he made application to join up with the Nazis. Papers were produced showing that he had fallen behind with his payments to the Nazis, and had joined the Storm Troopers. Later, he was actually placed in charge of Storm Troops. Yet he had been admitted by the Department of the 
Interior, and was moving about in New South Wales. Less than a fortnight ago I was told that both of these men are ,now at large. The father has joined his wife in Los Angeles. and the son reports at regular intervals  to the authorities in Australia. -  
I could refer to' other cases.--- A" -man named Conlon is another Nazi. 'He was running a wine saloon in Sydney, -which was  a  hotbed- of -nazi-ism, where Nazi sympathizers frequently met. There is another wine saloon opposite the People's Palace in Sydney. This was left open until about three weeks ago. - Many- of those' visiting the establishment spoke German, and some of the persons who assembled there had been admitted as refugees. If the Minister looks up the files he will see that a person named Garcia, an international crook and a -Nazi, was recently admitted to -Australia. He came here on a Spanish passport.  If the Minister will investigate this matter, he may be able to relate it to another person recently admitted, who may be associated with the white slave traffic in Australia. My information is that both of these men have .been connected with the Nazi organizations. Yet we talk of restricting immigration, and placing power in the hands of the Minister to keep  a  secret file, and, if necessary, to deport persons from friendly countries. I may ventilate, at a later date, the case of  a  soldier who served in the last war. As we have . enemies of the worst kind at large in. Australia at the present moment, it. behoves all of us to- make every effort to prevent this country from being. placed in a similar position to that in which Holland found itself only recently, when the presence of the "fifth column" was discovered. 
 Honorable senators should welcome this measure, although I think that it should be only the precursor of a more detailed examination of :-our immigration laws. This country will shortly be faced with an inflowing tide of migrants, some of whom will be, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said, extremely desirable settlers. They will be people of our race and of Nordic descent, and they are likely to come from those countries which have been overrun by our present foes. No more desirable class of people could be brought here than the Norwegians. Thousands of refugees from Norway and Holland are pouring into England to-day. How is England to pro* vide for them, with a strain on its own supplies, one can scarcely understand ; but in Australia, with our adequate supplies of food, and with our so-called empty spaces, we should welcome migrants from these countries. 1 was glad to hear from the Leader of the Opposition his strong advocacy of the introduction of morepopulation to Australia. Unfortunately, many desirable persons who are willing to migrate from Germany because of the rule prevailing in that country, have not been allowed to leave. They have been put into concentration camps and compelled to produce food and other supplies for the German military forces. 
The Leader of the Opposition, suggests : that the period of five years is too long for a man to wait before he can be naturalized under our laws. I do not agree with him. If we protect British subjects, whether natural-born or natu"ralized, from deportation, it behoves us to be careful, before we issue letters of naturalization. We should have the individual under observation and know how he is conducting himself and whether he is here for any sinister purpose.  Senator Arthur  suggested that a number of migrants have come to Australia for improper purposes. Why we allow any naturalized person to remain here, who is acting in a subversive way, I do not know. Increased power should be given to cancel letters of naturalization, or we should eliminate from the proposed new section 8 of the act, after the words " any person ", the words " not being a British subject either natural-born or naturalized ". The bill has been drafted to meet the circumstances of the moment, but I trust that the Government will take into consideration the whole of its immigration policy, with a view to doing some of the things that have been suggested by the Leader of the Opposition, in order to enable the flow of desirable migrants to continue. Whatever may be said of the unemployment problem, we must realize that in the interests of national security the population of Australia should be increased. As the crisis in world affairs may be 'only commencing, we must encourage an influx of people whose ideals, ambitions and standard of living are similar to those of our own race. I agree with those honorable senators who have suggested that a language test should be applied to persons who wish to become naturalized. It is thought by many that the present standard is not sufficiently high. It is remarkable that in this British country proclamations are issued in other than our own language. It appears that the way is being left open for the intrusion of a medley of nationals, such as there is in the United States of America, whose ideals do not harmonize with our own. I congratulate the Government upon introducing this necessary reform, and 1 trust that it is merely the precursor of a wider amending bill. 
, -  I bring under the notice of the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  the fact that a roads board in Western Australia has informed the authorities that it has had- considerable trouble with an Italian in that State who has refused to comply with the health regulations framed under State laws. Although he has been found guilty of offences under the regulations and has paid the fine imposed, he still refuses to obey the regulations. We have been asked whether he can be deported, and have ascertained that the Commonwealth has no power to deport such a person, unless he has committed a criminal offence. On two or three occasions the Italian Consul in Western Australia was requested to use his influence to get the man out of the country; but I have been informed that unless he wishes to leave of his own volition he cannot be deported because he has resided in Australia for over five years. 
I do not think so. 
The offence which he committed was not of a criminal nature. Can this measure be amended to meet the case of a person who refuses to carry out the laws of the country? If  the mau is not naturalized the Government' should' have the power to deport him. 
 in reply  - I thank honorable senators for the favorable manner in which they have received this bill, and I can assure those who have directed attention to certain aspects of our immigration legislation, that their remarks will be brought under the notice of the department. I agree with the opinions expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  concerning the future of this country. One of our gravest and most pressing problems is the need for a larger population, and the Immigration Branch is at present considering means by which migration can he developed after the war. 
Assisted migration from Great Britain - which is the most desirable form of migration - is at present in abeyance, because the British Government has said that owing 'to the war attention cannot he given to migration. 
The organization is still functioning, because there is a certain amount of work still to do. As soon as practicable, the Commonwealth and State Governments should formulate a scheme of development and migration to he put  into  operation at the conclusion of the war. I trust that it will soon be possible for Commonwealth and State officers to lay down the foundation of a sound policy of development and migration which subsequently can be submitted to the various governments concerned. At the termination of hostilities public expenditure must not be reduced to an unreasonable degree. National security demands that our natural resources should be fully developed and that we should provide for a much larger population than we have to-day. When a development and migration scheme has been formulated I trust that it will receive the support not only of this Parliament but also of the State parliaments, because without the cooperation of the States it could not succeed. 
Some honorable senators have said that the residential period of five years to qualify for naturalization should be reduced. That is the period adopted in all parts of the British Empire, and if a shorter period were provided it could operate only in Australia and persons who had become naturalized in Australia under a shorter period would not be recognized as naturalized British subjects in other parts of the Empire. Five years has been accepted throughout the Empire as a reasonable period in which to enable the authorities to judge the character and general suitability of the person who wishes to become naturalized.  I  cannot agree with the Leader of the Opposition, who suggested a residential period of one year, because such a period would be insufficient in which to determine whether a migrant is likely to become a desirable citizen. 
Naturalization is optional; but I remind the Leader of the Opposition that it would be impracticable to compel a person to become naturalized. 
They come of their own accord. Those who become naturalized derive benefits, which are not enjoyed by unnaturalized aliens. In many parts of Australia it is impossible for unnaturalized persons to own land. 
That is an aspect of the matter which the Government may consider. During the twelve months in which I have been Minister for the Interior, I have approved several thousand applications for naturalization. The average alien who comes to Australia realizes the advantages of being a British subject. I am reminded by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan that a large number of persons come from European countries to avoid the tyranny in the lands of their birth. In the early days of migration ,to this country many Germans came to Australia to evade the military system in their own country. It is only fair to say that an overwhelming number of the German settlers who came to Australia many years ago have proved admirable settlers, have stuck to their farms through good and bacl seasons, and have reared families who  have proved to be good citizens. Some of their sons served with the Australian Imperial Force during the last war. There' are" no complaints in Queensland concerning the Germans who took up land in that State, many of whom have performed splendid work' in the districts in which they live. 

 Sitting suspended from 
 12.45 
 to 2.15 p.m. 

The Leader of the Opposition and other ^honorable senators referred to the manner in which naturalization is granted to alien migrants by the Department of the Interior. When an application for naturalization is lodged, it has to be advertised in the press for a specified period. Officers of the Department of the Interior then  communicate  with the Investigation Branch of the AttorneyGeneral's Department and also the police 'of the various States in order to ascertain the record of the applicant  during  the previous five years. It is a rule of the department that naturalization should not be granted unless the applicant has a good knowledge of English, and applications are frequently rejected because of failure to comply with this requirement. I quite agree that everything possible should be done to ensure that the English language, and the English language only, shall be spoken in this country. It has been the experience of my department that elderly immigrants often find considerable difficulty in learning our language, whereas younger people, and particularly children entering this country at an early age and attending the State schools, learn the language very easily; many of .them soon become more fluent in English than in their native tongue. Although the matter does not come within the direct jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, I assure honorable senators that we are very strict in requiring an adequate .knowledge of English before naturalization certificates are granted. 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned certain statistics with regard to the admission of non-British migrants. ] point out the Commonwealth Statistician includes as Germans, people who were citizens of countries now controlled by Germany. Most of "those classified as Germans are from Austria or other countries which have been occupied by Germany. 
Most of them have come to Australia under the agreement with regard to the admission of refugees. But all immigration of aliens has virtually ceased. Exceptions are made only in the case of family re-unions and a few other special cases. People who came to this country years ago and have established themselves as good citizens, are permitted to bring parents and other relatives to Australia, provided they can satisfy the department that they are in a position to maintain the new immigrants in decent conditions. But under no circumstances are enemy subjects of military age permitted to land in Australia. 
No; the ;.people classed as Germans include Austrians because their country has now become part of Germany. This classification does not include Czechs and Slovaks who have come to Australia in possession of Chechoslovakian passports. 
Only in exceptional cases. If an application were received from a migrant whose special knowledge or skill would bc of some real value to Australian industry it might be granted. Recently a few such applications were received from Hungary and neighbouring countries, but the number admitted could almost be counted on the fingers of one band. As I have said, with. the exception of family re-unions, foreign migration has virtually ceased. 1 should like to deal now with the individual cases referred to by  Senator Arthur.  I can understand the honorable senator's feelings and anxieties in regard to these cases. I do not doubt that during the last 20 or 25 years, during which we have had peace with Germany, we have admitted to this country people who have strong German sympathies. That is borne out by the fact that immediately on the outbreak of war there was a general round-up of enemy  aliens, many of whom were interned. I suggest to Sena. tor Arthur that he would be rendering a valuable service to this country if he would advise the defence authorities of any cases of that kind which come under his notice. 
The Government is grateful to the honorable senator for having brought these cases under its notice.  In  passing, I shall deal with one case in connexion with which  Senator Arthur  is apparently smarting under a grievance, namely, the case of the alien who was referred" to in the course of another debate recently. I point out to  Senator' Arthur  that the gentleman concerned cannot possibly have a grievance against me because, in order to give him an opportunity to carry out his job, I gave him two extensions of six months each.  .Senator Arthur  will remember that when he first -became interested in a certain project, I approached him in a perfectly friendly way and asked him whether or not he knew all the circumstances surrounding it. In an endeavour to assist  Senator Arthur  in his duties as a member of this chamber, I offered to allow him to read the file concerning the person referred to. 
No; in order to allow the honorable senator to satisfy himself as to whether or not it was wise to continue with his project. I assure the honorable senator that the offer I made to him when I discussed this matter with him in the Commonwealth Bank was perfectly sincere, and was made in an endeavour to acquaint him fully with the  circumstances  of the case. The alien concerned subsequently left this country of his own accord a. month before his permit expired. 
I am not aware of that. The fact remains that he left earlier than he had to, and is now outside this country. I assure the honorable senator that I have no personal animosity in this matter. I offered to let him see the papers, not with a desire to injure him or the person concerned, but in order to give him an opportunity to examine the case for himself, and decide whether  he  should continue his association with the person in question. 
I am glad that the bill has been so well received by the Senate, and I assure honorable senators that it is the desire of the Government, as I am sure it is of members of all parties, that our immigration laws should bc tightened up, not with the object of closing the doors of this country to desirable immigrants, but merely in order that we may be better able to ensure that immigrants, who are not likely to become good citizens of Australia, shall not be allowed to enter the country. The tightening up will also make it easier to deal with people already admitted, who are not proving worthy citizens of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Certain persons may bo deported). 
. Are there any other provisions under which undesirable migrants may be deported from this country, apart from those contained in this bill ? I have in view the people who are now entering the country, anc! those who have been here for a considerable time and. have made no attempt to learn the English language. I suggest that a provision be inserted, by which aliens, after having been resident in Australia for a specified time, say six. months, shall be called upon, if necessary, fo pass a dictation test in the English language in order to ascertain whether or not they have acquired a. sufficient knowledge of the language to entitle thom to remain in the country. It should not lie difficult: for any  migrant to acquire at least a working knowledge of the language, but there are certain immigrants who have no desire to speak any but their own tongue. Are there in the act itself provisions covering the points which I have raised? 
 This clause amends the relevant section of the principal act, which also contains a number of other sections under which, undesirable persons, who enter Australia illegally, and deserters from ships, may be deported although it is not the practice to deport every deserter. In the early days considerable numbers of men deserted from their ships, went to jobs in country districts, and turned out to be useful citizens. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure the deportation of persons who have become a nuisance in the community. 
People who have lived for a number of years in Australia cannot be deported merely because of a failure to pass a dictation test. Whilst it is desirable that all foreign migrants should, as quickly as possible, learn the English language, it would be unfair to order their deportation on the ground merely that they could not pass a dictation test in English. 
Some elderly foreigners living in Australia find it extremely difficult to learn the English language. Others again have no trouble whatever. I can assure the honorable senator that it is the policy of the Government to encourage all foreign migrants to learn the English language, and as their children must attend our schools, they quickly acquire it, so in time any objection to foreign migrants on this score will disappear. 
I am aware of that. Before such a person could be deported he must be proved guilty of a criminal offence. The only suggestion I can make is that the law could be amended to impose a more severe penalty on persistent offenders against the civil law. In that way they would be deterred from further misbehaviour. 
 'Under the State law in Western Australia penalties for the offences of the class mentioned are imposed in the civil court; but an offender can be fined only a nominal amount, he may repeat the offence as often as he pleases, and flout the law. It has been pointed out by the local government authority concerned that the man of whom I spoke earlier has done that, and under the law it is not possible to order his deportation because the offence is of a civil character. Deportation is only possible following conviction for a criminal offence. 
I am informed that the Italian Consul was approached to see whether he could get this man to leave the country. 
No; but he has been a resident of Australia for more than five years and by virtue of his residential qualification his consent is necessary before he can be deported. 
 The honorable senator has correctly stated the position.  Lt  is unfortunate that foreigners who abuse the privileges which they enjoy in this country should be able to flout the law relating to civil offences merely because they have resided here for more than five years. 
The suggestion is timely. I shall give it consideration. Perhaps it is possible to widen the provision in the direction indicated. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Regulations). 
 Under this clause the Minister is adding to his powers in connexion with the enforcement of guarantees given in respect of migrants from overseas. It would appear, from the wider authority which the Minister is seeking, that there have been Cases in which the guarantors, who usually are relatives of migrants or persons of substance, have not fully observed their obligations. I should also like the Minister to tell us what stage has been reached in the proposals made by  Dr. Steinberg  for the settlement of a certain area in the Kimberleys, in the northwest of Western Australia, with agricultural refugees from Poland and other parts of Europe either under domination by the Nazis, or likely to be in the near future. 
 In- my secondreading speech I mentioned that in only a few instances had the guarantors failed to observe their obligations. As honorable senators are aware, they are obliged to give an undertaking that the person guaranteed will not become a charge upon the State. In some cases they give a guarantee of employment. It is considered desirable that, if the necessity arises, the guarantee shall be enforced, otherwise the system may be abused. 
Yes, except in a few instances. It is only fair to say also, that the great majority of the refugees have justified their admission. Many of them have started new industries and have become employers of Australian citizens. When a complete review of the position is made, it will he found that Australia has not suffered to any appreciable extent from the generosity which it displayed at the conference in Europe, when it consented to the admission of a considerable number of refugee migrants. With regard to  Dr. Steinberg's  proposal for the settlement of Jewish refugees in the Kimberleys, I understand that he represents the Freeland League in Australia. I met him. some months ago in Melbourne and discussed the matter with him. So far he has not submitted  a definite proposal to the Commonwealth for the settlement of Jewish refugees in the Kimberleys. 
I do not know. H that State made a request, it would be directed to the Prime Minister's Department. But the State Government, can scarcely take any action until it knows what is proposed by  Dr. Steinberg.  Without knowing much of the country which, it is suggested, might be occupied by Jewish refugees, I would say that any such scheme would have to be considered carefully before either the Commonwealth or the Government of Western Australia could accept it. Many safeguards must he included. The Commonwealth Government has set its face against encouraging the group settlement of foreign migrants in any particular area. Since we do not want a minority problem in Australia, we should do all that is possible to discourage the settlement of large numbers of foreigners in particular areas. The Government, desires all foreign migrants to be distributed amongst our own people as far as is possible, in order that they may absorb our ideas and accustom themselves to our mode of living and our institutions. 
I interviewed  Dr. Steinberg  at  a  meeting of the Refugee Committee of the League of Nations branch at Hobart, and I also met bini in Canberra in January last. The Russian Government has provided, on the Pacific coast of Siberia, a very large territory, much greater in extent than the area in Palestine, for the settlement of refugees. I think that if the Jews want to go anywhere they could go there and get a fair deal. The group settlement plan, mentioned by the Minister, was tried in America, with disastrous results. We should be very careful before adopting it here. 
1 should like to know from the Minister whether it is  a  fact that the same money is used over and over again as landing money for different immigrants entering the country. 
 It has been suggested that this practice is followed upon occasions, but I do not think that it is done to any great degree. In any case, it would be very hard to check. It is, of course, possible that the same money may be transferred from one person to another in order to provide each of them with the necessary amount of landing money, but our investigations have not disclosed chat it is done extensively. We do everything we can to ensure that it is new money in each instance. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
 On the face of it, this is a quite simple and reasonable measure, but I should like to know from the Minister just how the arrangement proposed in the bill is intended to work out. I understand from his second-reading speech that it was considered wasteful to load the  Commonwealth Gazette  with the publication in full of ordinances affecting only the Northern Territory. I can see the wisdom of effecting economies in that direction, but I want to make sure that the inhabitants of the Northern Territory will have opportunities of becoming acquainted with the details of the ordinances which affect them. Presumably, the idea is that there shall be published in the  Commonwealth Gazette  an intimation that an ordinance dealing with cer- tain matters has been promulgated, but the details of the ordinance will not be published. Then, persons resident in the Northern Territory who are interested may take steps to obtain the full text of the ordinance. How are they to set the full text? 
But is not every intelligent citizen entitled to know what legislation has been passed affecting him ? 
Senatorfoll. - He cannot get that information now unless he gets the  Gazette.  In future, when he reads the  Gazette,  he will see that such and such an ordinance which concerns him has been promulgated, and he may take steps to obtain the full text. 
I presume it will not be necessary for him to satisfy some official before he may obtain a copy. 
Senatorfoll. - A copy of the ordinance will be sent to any one who applies for it. 
I should also like to know at what points in that large area the necessary information will be made available. Also, I should like an undertaking that the full text of all ordinances will be published in the Darwin newspaper, which is the only one that circulates in the Northern Territory. My only anxiety is to ensure that the residents of the Northern Territory arc not penalized by this provision. Otherwise there is nothing objectionable in the bill. I wish, however, that the same anxiety for economy could he apparent in other phases of the Government's administration. If the Minister can assure me that adequate facilities will be available for persons to obtain the information they desire about ordinances, I shall not oppose the bill. 
.  - This very matter was considered by a committee appointed by the Senate to inquire into the subject of regulations and ordinances. We considered that it was a. waste of public funds to publish in the  Commonwealth Gazette  lengthy ordinances, more particularly as they appear in the  Gazette  in a form which is not, convenient to the average person interested in them. Regulations affecting the Northern Territory are similar to acts of Parliament, which are not published inthe  Gazette.  Any one may obtain a copy of an act from the proper place. 
We considered that the publication of ordinances in the  Gazette  was of little value to the general public, and that it would be sufficient to publish an intimation of the fact that such and such an ordinance had been promulgated. Ordinances for the Northern Territory are, in all respects, similar to regulations issued under an act of  Parlia-ment,  and such regulations are not published in the  Gazette.  They are, however, tabled in' Parliament, and so are ordinances for the Northern Territory. Why should we go to' more expense in regard to ordinances for the Northern Territory than in regard to regulations issued under an act of Parliament? The Opposition was represented on the committee which considered this matter. We did not actually recommend to the Government that action be taken, but it was our intention to do so, and the Government wisely acted on its own initiative. 
I agree that much money is wasted by the publication of unnecessary matters in the newspapers, as well as in the  Gazette.  Having regard to the present shortage of newsprint, we should be scrupulously careful to avoid all waste of paper. Wherever we can make an economy we should do so. Most of the newsprint used in Australia comes from non-sterling countries, and sterling exchange is extremely important at the present time. I ask honorable senators to support the hill on the ground of economy,, seeing that it will not inconvenience the public in any way. 
 m reply -  Senator Wilson  has explained why it is considered wise to economize by not publishing the full text of ordinances in the  Commonwealth Gazette.  I cannot give the undertaking asked for by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that. the ordinances will he printed in full in the Darwin newspaper, because that would cost more than to publish them in the  Gazette.  Some of these ordinances are very lengthy, and the size of the Darwin paper would have to be doubled in order to publish them. 
I cannot say offhand. At the present time, ordinances are not published in any newspaper, so I cannot see why they should be published in the Darwin newspaper. Residents of the Northern Territory, who get the  Commonwealth Gazette  now, will be able to see that such and such an ordinance has been issued, and, if they are interested, they will be able to obtain a copy of it. I am prepared to give an undertaking that any one who wishes to obtain a copy of an ordinance will be able to do so. 
We put a notice to that effect, in the  Gazette  now. 
I cannot undertake to do what  Senator Ashley  has asked. I must first see what the general principle is iri regard to the advertising of ordinances. The idea behind this measure is not to make the ordinances more readily available to the public; it is to save the cost of printing them in the  Gazette.  All I can do is to give an undertaking that in every case the headings of the ' ordinance, setting forth what it is about", will bo published in the  Gazette,  and that copies of ordinances will be made available to those who want them. In addition, we send copies of ordinances relating to the Northern Territory to people who, we know, are particularly interested in them, without waiting for applications, and that practice will be continued. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has dealt exhaustively and trenchantly with the proposals of the present Government to raise the necessary credits for the prosecution of the war. I asked certain questions in this chamber recently regarding the method of finance to be adopted, and I received answers to some of them, but to others no answer was given. I assume that, whilst some of my questions were pertinent, others were regarded as impertinent. Honorable senators will recall that on thelast occasion when I addressed the Senate I told them about the racket that went on in England in connexion with treasury-bills. I find that treasury-bills held by the Australian banks total £48,000,000, and that the rate of interest is1¾ per cent., which works out at , 6840,000 per annum. I also referred to a statement made by the manager of the Bank of New South Wales, who regretted that his bank was able to get only 10s. per cent. on treasurybills in the London market. In Australia 35s. per cent. is paid for similar accommodation. I remember when the charge made by the private banks was as high as 6 per cent. Treasury-bills are undated promissory notes and we are borrowing money to-day at 3 per cent., with the usual charge of 5s. per cent., I presume, for the raising of the loans. I have asked a question for the purpose of ascertaining whether the banks are getting their usual  5s.per  cent. on the money that they raise. 
The Allies won the last war, but they did not win the peace. Dreadful conditions were imposed on the German people, who were not to be blamed for the war which was then waged by theirrulers. 
After four years of blockade, they were driven to desperation and despair. One of the most eminent German writers, Hermann Burgmann, said that, if it had not been for the men of high finance, it would not have been necessary for a man like Hitler to come in. When I have attacked the banking institutions and the high financiers, I have caused some little amusement and inquiry, but I have not told the people anything new. I have said more than once that governments do not govern. There is a subtle and unscrupulous power above all governments that is able to enforce its will on the people. Benjamin Disraeli, who rose to be the Prime Minister of England, once remarked that the world is governed by very different personages from those imagined by people who are not behind the scenes. The great Abraham Lincoln said that he had two enemies to fight in the American Civil War -the South, to which he was advancing, and the power behind him - and that, of the two enemies, the greater was the banks which were trying to crush him. He also said - 
Money is the creature of the law, and the creation-.of the original issue of. money should bo maintained as an exclusive monopoly of the national government. The monetary needs of increasing numbers of people advancing towards higher standards of living can and should be met by the government. Such needs can be served by issuing national currency and credit' through the operation of a national banking system. The circulation of a medium of exchange issued and backed by the government can be properly regulated and redundancy of issue avoided by withdrawing from circulation such amounts as may be necessary, by taxation and otherwise. 
Government, possessing the power to create and issue currency and credit as money and enjoying the right to withdraw both currency and credit from circulation by taxation and otherwise, need not and should not borrow capital at interest as the means of financing government work and public enterprises. The government should create, issue and circulate all the currency and credit needed to satisfy the spending power of consumers. The privilege of creating and issuing money is not only the supreme prerogative of government, but it is government's greatest creative opportunity. 
By the adoption of these principles the financing of all public enterprises, the maintenance of stable government and ordered progress, and the conduct of the treasury will become matters of practical administration. The people can and will be furnished with a currency as safe as their own government. Money will cease to be the master and become the servant of humanity. Democracy will rise superior to the money power. 
If honorable senators opposite were familiar with the history of money during the last 100 years, my remarks on this subject would not be received with derision. 
Last session I referred to the racket experienced in Tasmania with regard to theflotation and conversion of Commonwealth loans. I have before me a statement by  Mr. Dwyer-Gray,  who finds that the conversion of a loan of £4,500,000 in London has increased taxation in Tasmania by £40,000 annually. We are now told that we are getting money at 3 per cent., but I am wondering what the rate of interest will be when the loans mature and have to be converted. 
I have said that governments do not govern. Some weeks ago an American visited Europe, and many of us thought that he was on a peace mission. We read in the press that he had visitedRome, and had conversed with Mussolini. Then he went to Berlin and talked with Hitler. He also waited on members of the British andFrench governments. He was pestered by pressmen who desired to find out the object of his visit. He was not the accredited representative of the Government of the United States of America,but described himself as the emissary of  President  Roosevelt. The following quotation from an article in a London newspaper of the 27th April last will show what I mean when I say that governments do not govern:- 
Although it may still be premature to draw final conclusions, the result of Sumner Welles's visit to Europe is beginning to become plainer. The very fact that he came to this country as an alleged representative of F. D. Roosevelt personally and not as a representative of the United States of America Government, indicated that his mission was of such a shady character that in no circumstances could it be allowed to be represented as a United States of America Government responsibility. The whole of the theatrical background attached to Sumner Welles's mission, and progress through Europe also made it clear that whatever he was engaged on, would not stand the light of day. 
Up to the time of Sumner Welles arriving, there was in many quarters a distinct spirit of optimism as far as the outcome of this war was concerned. Spain, for instance, was definitely friendly to the Allies and Italy was clearly preparing itself for a break with Berlin, and an approach to the Allies. Judging by recent events, it would appear that Sumner Welles's mission was approximately as follows: - 
Unless he came to deliver some sort of threat, it is very unlikely that his visits to Paris and London were more than a smoke screen to hide the real objectives of his visit toRome and Berlin. As far as Germany is concerned, it appears that Hitler has called back  Dr. Schacht.  As Hitler and the Nazi Government have very few illusions about the gold standard, the present financial system, or the reliability from their point of view of  Dr. Schacht,  the German Government would not have agreed to such a course without receiving a valuable quid pro quo. What this was still remains to be seen. It may have been financial assistance to Germany, it may have been an offer to arrange for better communications through Russia, and the delivery of vital supplies from America via Russia, or it may simply have been an offer to buy Mussolini. Time will show. Whatever it was. it cannot have been anything to help the Allies or democracy. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I hope that the honorable senator intends to connect his remarks with the financial statement. 
Yes, I can prove that the banks are the real enemies within the gates. 
The Minister should set an example to the Senate instead of interjecting, but he represents a mentality which can be rightly described as that of the enemies inside the gates - 
As far as Italy is concerned, this country has suddenly shown renewed hostility to Britain and France. It would never do to allow this change in attitude to be attributable to an emissary of Jewish high finance. To divert attention and to make it appeal' as if the present hostility was due to something other than Sumner Welles's mission, the meeting between Hitler and Mussolini at the Brenner Pass was stage-managed. The chances are that all major lines of policy had been laid down before that meeting and that they merely discussed details which could just as well have been settled another way. To the world, however, it looks as if Italy's changed political direction was due to that meeting. If from a military point of view the Allies were gradually getting into a more andmore favorable position, and there was a possibility of the Allies actually breaking the power of Nazi Germany without themselves becoming exhausted, then the Jewish international plot would have failed. 
The enemy in New York would have two alternatives. Either they would call off the war completely and prepare for another war in ten or twenty years time. By that time the constellation of powers could have been changed, Russia could have been re-organized and the United States of America people been educated up to a definite hostility towards 
France and Britain. The other alternative is to strengthen the military position of Germany. This could be brought about in a number of ways, in view of the fact that Germany enjoys internal lines of communication, and by additions to the military power of Germany by italy and Spain. If these two countries are involved, Russia might also be brought in. It waa recently shown that it was a grave diplomatic error to try and involve Russia against the Allies first as this was antagonizing Italy and Spain. 
The second alternative would therefore involve buying Mussolini and his government. For Jewish high finance this -is quite easy, by promising finance with a view to exploiting the Balkans jointly with Italy,. Mussolini was hound to rise to this bait. There is, of course, no. doubt that Jewish international finance intends to double-cross Mussolini and Hitler as soon as it suits them, but not before they have dealt Britain a fatal blow. ' If Jewish high finance has come to such an arrangement, then we shall also fmd that our internal difficulties are increasing, because that arch-enemy of Britain and of democracy has a foothold in this country. It is to he hoped that true lovers of England and of democracy will more and more realize how it is part of the enemy's tactics to rely on treachery. This treachery, in the military sense, was amply shown in the recent Gorman occupation of Norway. Such treachery is showing itself in this country in a. financial sense and an economic 'sense. It behoves all those who arc aware of the real enemy, to do their utmost to spread this knowledge. [n the same issue the following statement appears : - 
On 16th April, 1040,  Mr. Stokes  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the House of Commons whether he would introduce legislation to alter the charter of the Bank of England so as to enable the name of the hank proprietors together with the capital holding of each of such proprietors, to he published. 

 Sir John Simon. No, sir. 

 Mr. Stokes. In view of the disastrous policy followed by the bank after the last war. and the part they are believed to have played iii the rearmament of Germany, does the right honorable gentleman not consider it time that the people knew a bit more about the proprietors of this unique concern V 
On 16th April.  .Mr. Arthur  Henderson asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether the Bank of International Settlements is still operating: and whether Germany remains a. member of the hoard of control ? 

 Sir John Simon. The Bank of International Settlements is still operating, but on a reduced scale.' Germany is still, I believe, represented upon the board of the bank, but 1111 meetings of the hoard have been held since the outbreak of war. 

 Mr. Wilmot. Then who is directing the policy of this institution? 

 Sir John Simon. I do npt know. 
The Bank of International Settlements was instituted to provide the means to equalize and pay debts, but the power of finance is so strong that it was found that at its headquarters at Basle no nation or international law could interfere with its power. It would appear that the possession of money, which is controlled by that crowd who  have no conscience and no scruples, gives the right to govern. I have already informed the Senate how the last war loans were financed and -the trickery that was adopted by financiers. In England, a former Lord Privy Seal,  Mr. ...  J. Johnson, said that . what occurred during the last war will occur again, If it does it will be due to the fact that governments will continue to borrow, money from the banks. When I was asked by  Senator Wilson  this morning why the Labour government did not use the Commonwealth Bank in the way that was intended, I told him that that Government did- not then know the power which it possessed under the Constitution. Paragraph 504 of the- report of the Royal Commission on -Banking and Monetary Systems, as I have said on numerous occasions, shows the way in which the Commonwealth Government can obtain money. I have been asked what that paragraph really means. A friend of mine in Victoria wrote to  Mr. Justice  Napier, who was the  chairman  of the commission, asking what it really meant.  His  secretary,  Mr. W.  T. Harris, wrote in reply - 
The statement in tho paragraph mentioned - is to the effect that, as a matter of power, tho Commonwealth Bank can make  money  available to Governments or to others on such terms as it chooses, even by wal' of a " loan without interest, or even without requiring cither interest or repayment of principal. 
That opinion is similar to that expressed by  Mr. Graham  Towers, the manager of  the Central Bank of Canada. 
If a government has the power to do the right thing is it not its fault if it does not exercise the power? The Commonwealth Bank has certain constitutional powers which it is expected to use in the interests of the people. The commission has said that if at any time there is a difference of opinion between the Commonwealth Bank Board and the Comonwealth Government as to the bank's policy, a free and frank discussion can then take place, and if the views expressed are irreconcilable the Government may tell the Bank Board that it can and will take full responsibility for instructing the bank as to how it is to act. That is the opinion of a judge of the Supreme Court who, surely, should understand constitutional law. 
He also said that the Government is the executive of Parliament. 
If the Government has the power to do the right thing, the doing of it becomes a duty. Does the honorable senator suggest that it is within the financial capacity of this country to pay interest at the rate of 3 per cent. on its loans? Is that a wise policy when money can be obtained free of interest? We know that the Commonwealth Bank has made profits amounting to £30,000,000, all of which would have gone into the private banks if the people at present in power in this Parliament had. had their way. 
I am stating facts. 
So is that of the honorable senator. 
It is the truth. Up to the present no honorable senator opposite has had the temerity to endeavour to controvert what I have said on the subject of finance. The figure which I have just cited was not. imaginary, but is taken from the balance-sheet of the 
Commonwealth Bank. It is people of your sort- 
Order! The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
The people of Australia are being prevented by removable financial causes and obstacles from enjoying the standard of living and security that the industrial progress of the last thirty years has made possible. 
Any man who fully explores this matter can see that the cause of our present economic conditions is our financial system. Poverty exists in a land of plenty. On the subject of depressions and their causes, I have quoted to honorable senators Gustav Cassel, one of the highest authorities in Europe. It is generally recognized by people who have studied this matter that depressions are only brought about in one way - the calling up of overdrafts and the restriction of credits. We live in a money economy, in which 99 per cent, of business is carried on by means of credit; yet, we continue to borrow money externally. Oan the Government give any reason to justify borrowing money for war purposes at 3 per cent., when the only cost to this country should he in men and material? I do not think that there is a man on the Government side of the chamber who is not convinced that that is so. If honorable senators do not believe that to be the case after all I have said, it is because they do not want to be convinced. We have no national Parliament in the real sense of the word ; it is merely a conglomeration ' of vested interests. The first duty of all members of Parliament should be to that Parliament, and through it, the nation. Under our present parliamentary system there oan only be party strife, because all legislation is supported or opposed according to party views, and not according to what is in the best interests of Australia. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether  Mr. Essington  Lewis, the newDirector-General of Munitions Supply, will he empowered to  take  over from non-essential engineering firms trained mechanics so that war material may be made 24 hours a day and seven days a week, instead of continuing the present system of one shift  a  day? 
The Prime Minister,in a statementmade in the House of Representatives yesterday, said that very' full authority would be taken by the 
Government to speed up munitions supply. I should say that the powers to be given to  Mr. Lewis  will cover the point raised by the honorable senator. 
I ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce - (1) When will the 10 per cent. deducted from the first wool appraised be made available to growers? (2) By what amount per lb. was the first wool appraised below the average price of purchase? (3) When will this amount be available to growers? 
The 10 per cent. deducted will be paid as soon as possible after the 30th June next, when the final price paid by the United Kingdom for Australian wool can be assessed. I have not any information relating to the honorable senator's second question. In reply to this third question, I am advised that any deficiency in the price of 13.437d. per lb. shown to exist at the end of June next will be paid as soon after that date as possible. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether it is the intention of the Government to provide facilities for recruits enlisting in country districts?  Senator FOLL.  - Yes. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Air - (1) Has the attention of the Minister been directed to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 22nd May headed, " Empire Air Scheme - Huge Waiting List - Serious Delay - Indignant Applicants " ? Also to an article in to-day's issue of the Sydney  Telegraph  headed, " The Tragic Story of Australia's Air Effort"? (2) If so, will the Minister, following the splendid example of frankness displayed by Allied statesmen, make a statement in the Senate in order to place the facts before the people of Australia? 
I understand that the Minister for Air, in a statement in the House of Representatives this afternoon, referred to criticism respecting delays in certain portions of the Empire air scheme, and explained that the programme was well up to date. It is the intention of the Government to expedite, as far as is humanly possible, the carrying out of the scheme. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether the Government has considered the advisability of diverting some portion of the revenue received from the gold tax for the purpose of assisting the gold-mining industry in Australia ? 
That matter is at present under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
In view of the increased cost of living and of many requests received by senators in this connexion, is it the intention of the Government to make any increase of the rate of invalid and old-age pensions? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The honorable senators question refers to a matter of Government policy which it is not customary to deal with inreply to questions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
Is the Government still persevering, through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, with its investigations of rabbit virus, or any other means for the destruction of rabbits? 
If so, when is it likely that the virus or other agent will be released to land-holders for practical use? 
The Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial 
Research has furnished the following replies :  - 
Yes. 
No indication of the nature asked for by the honorable senator can be given at present. The question of the release of the virus will depend on the results of the further investigations which are now proceeding. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 

 Do the loans, which are being raised by the Government for war purposes, through theprivate banks, carry 5s. per cent. commissions ? 
Is it a fact that the private banks received this commission on past loans? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Loans for defence purposes, except £2,000,000 raised by private negotiation through the Commonwealth Bank in December, 1939, have been raised by public subscription from all sections of the community, and the private banks, in common with the Savings Banks and Stock Exchange brokers, have been paid a commission of 5s. per cent. on applications lodged by them or through them by the public. No commission was paid to the banks for their contributions to the £2,000,000 private loan. 
For many years the private banks and other institutions have been paid this commission in respect of subscriptions by them or through them to public loans. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is the price at which wool is sold to neutral countries known in either Great Britain or the countries of sale? 
Is the price at which wool is sold to British manufacturers known in Great Britain? 
If the replies to the above questions are in the affirmative, why is such information classed as confidential in Australia when it is not confidential in other countries? 
Will the Minister state the prices at present paid in respect of questions 1 and 2 above? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
It may be presumed that the prices would be known to the purchasers. On application by prospective buyers to the United Kingdom Government for quotations, the prices would be supplied to them. Prices would, of course, vary according to the type, grade and count desired, and as such would be privy to the 
United Kingdom Government control authorities and the individual buyer, who must give a guarantee of non-enemy destination of the product in any shape or form. 
In the case of British processors, the issue is rationed according to whether the manufactured goods are intended for (a) home consumption, or (b) export. The issue price was quoted for " tops ", as under, as from the 1st March, 1940 - 64's warp (colonial oil combed) : For home trade 42. 5d. per lb.; for the export trade 43.0d. per lb. 3 and 4. The prices mentioned in reply to No. 2 have been published in trade journals both in the United Kingdom and in Australia. The whole question of the price charged to neutral countries for wool has been a matter of continued consultation between the United Kingdom Government and the Government of the Commonwealth. Such consultations are still in a confidential stage as affecting an important feature of the policy of economic warfare. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state what progress has been made in the Commonwealth in the manufacture of aircraft? 
What States are working on aircraft manufacture ? 
Is the Government satisfied with the progress being made? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: - 
The whole question of aircraft construction in Australia is at the moment the subject of discussion with the United Kingdom Government. It is hoped to be able to make a comprehensive statement to the House next week. 
In order that honorable senators may have an opportunity to study the amendments made by the House of Representatives in this bill. I am agreeable that progress be reported. 
Progress reported. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill proposes to amend the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1939 by inserting a provision to the effect that a notice in the  Commonwealth Gazette  of any ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory having been made, and of the place where copies of such ordinance can be purchased, shall for the purposes of the act be sufficient notification of the ordinance. At present ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory arc published in full in the  Commonwealth Gazette.  As such ordinances are sometimes lengthy and occupy many pages of the  Gazette,  it is now proposed that the title only of the ordinance shall be published, together with an intimation as to where copies can be purchased. 
The economy thus effected in the saving of paper should commend itself to honorable senators. Commonwealth acts and statutory' rules are not published in full in the  Commonwealth Gazette,  and no inconvenience should be caused to persons interested by the non-publication in full of ordinances. It is also proposed to discontinue publishing in full regulations made under ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory. 
This measure is similar to the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill passed by the Senate last week. I have before me a copy of the  Commonwealth  Gazette,  in which an ordinance of minor importance occupies a whole page. If this measure be passed, only headings indicating the nature of the ordinance will appear in the  Commonwealth Gazette,  together with an intimation that a complete copy of the ordinance may be obtained from the Government Printer. 
As I indicated to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in connexion with the Northern Territory Administration Bill, the Government will make known to people interested in the ordinances the fact that they may obtain copies of them if they so desire. 
I do not know what the Government expects to accomplish by the introduction of bills such as this at this stage, but I imagine that the only reason is an attempt to effect economy. If that is so there is no sense in opposing the measure, but at the same time it is regrettable that the same thrift is not displayed in many other directions of far greater importance. We should endeavour to encourage among residents of the Aus tralian Capital Territory a far greater interest in things that affect them, and there is no excuse for being secretive in regard to ordinances, which are the enactments by which the territory is governed. The Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  has said that anybody who is interested in the ordinances may obtain copies of them; but in my opinion every resident of the Australian Capital Territory ought to be interested, and by so curtailing the publication of ordinances the great bulk of the people who are affected by them  will not be reached. 
There is a local  paper  which is published in the interests of the people of this territory, and in that regard I ask the Minister the same question that I asked in relation to the newspaper at Darwin - will he undertake that the  Canberra Times  shall receive copies of these ordinances so that the common people may know of them. If it is necessary to apply to the Government Printing Office, the people will just not bother to ask for copies, except perhaps those who have a pecuniary interest in what is being done. But there are thousands of people who have an interest other than a pecuniary one, and I should like the Minister to give an assurance that ordinances will be displayed in all public places such as post  offices, shopping centres, residential centres, police stations, and ambulance stations. The fullest possible publicity should be given to these enactments. 1 repeat that I can see no reason for this measure other than economy, and if that is the sole purpose, it is cheese-paring economy indeed. I could show the Government a hundred and one other ways in which failure to observe practical economy is dangerous to the country at the present time. 
 As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  pointed out, a measure similar to' this was passed through the Senate last week. This bill has been brought down in the direct interests of economy, and because it is considered by the Department of the Interior that it is quite unnecessary to publish in full in the  Gazette  ordinances which, although sometimes relatively unimportant, are very lengthy. Instead, notification that an ordinance has been made, and may he inspected at such and such a place, or copies obtained from the Government Printing Office, will be issued. I cannot give an undertaking that the full text of all ordinances will be published in the  Canberra Times.  No doubt that journal watches very closely matters affecting the Australian Capital Territory, and will make it its business to become conversant with whatever ordinances are made. 
So far as I know, nobody will be inconvenienced. The only difference is that anybody who is particularly interested in an ordinance will have to apply for a copy, instead of being able to read it in the  Gazette. 
SenatorCollings.  -  If we want information about an ordinance, we will have to make application for a copy. 
The honorable senator, of course, will be supplied with a copy of all ordinances and regulations. The total circulation of the  Commonwealth Gazette  is only about 2,000, and I do not think that a discontinuance of the publication of ordinances will have much effect, because probably 99 per cent. of recipients of the  Gazette  are not interested in these ordinances. The only people who are interested are those who live in the Australian Capital Territory. I give honorable senators an undertaking that the Department of the Interior will facilitate the obtaining of ordinances by those to whom they are of special concern. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure deals primarily with the exemption from land tax of mutual life assurance societies, friendly societies and certain other societies, clubs and associations not carried on for pecuniary profit. It also provides a basis for the assessment of perpetual leases. 
Mutual life assurance societies at present are granted exemption in respect of all lands owned by them, other than those of which a society is mortgagee in possession, or which it has acquired by virtue of a mortgage. This exemption applies irrespective of whether the lands owned are used by the society for its own purposes or are let to tenants. 
In recent years, particularly, certain life assurance societies have invested an increasingly large proportion of their funds in the purchase or erection of large city buildings and blocks of flats which are let to tenants. Honorable senators will appreciate the fact that the freedom from land tax enjoyed by these societies enables them to compete unfairly with taxpayers who own similar classes of property. The bill is designed to remedy this inequality. 
Under the bill, the exemption allowable to mutual life assurance societies is limited to the lands occupied by them,  and does not extend to lands let to  tenants.  Provision is made to cover the case of a society which occupies a part of a building owned by it and lets the balance. In such cases, the society is entitled to exemption in respect of a part of the unimproved value of the land corresponding to the rental value of the part of the building- which it occupies. 
The present provision, whereby life assurance societies with ' shareholders receive a proportion of the exemption allowed to wholly mutual societies, has,, been retained. This . proportion corresponds to the proportion which the value of the Australian policies of the society bears to the total value of its policies. 
Friendly societies are, under the present act, entitled to exemption -in respect of all lands owned by them, irrespective of the manner in which they were acquired or to what use they are put. Some of these societies own valuable city properties, only small portions of which are occupied by them for their own purposes, the balance of the buildings consisting of shops and offices let to tenants. 
Under the bill, full exemption will be allowable to a friendly society only in respect of lands solely occupied by it. Partial exemption, based on rental values, will be allowable when a part of a building is occupied by a society and the balance is let to tenants. Mutual life assurance societies and friendly societies have been, free from liability to land tax since the inception of the act in 1910, and the Government considers that the time is opportune for their position to be reviewed, particularly as taxpayers generally are being called upon to bear additional burdens. 
The bill also deals with societies, clubs and associations which own land used as a site for a building occupied by the owning body. The Commissioner of Land Tax originally allowed complete exemption to these bodies, notwithstanding that portions of their premises may have been let to tenants. Some years ago, however, the Supreme Court of New South Wales decided that "the exemption provided by the law did not apply unless the particular body was the sole occupant of the building. 
The Royal Commission on Taxation, in its fourth report, dated the 19th October, 1934, drew attention to the anomaly created by the court's interpretation of the law, and recommended that it be remedied. The bill implements this recommendation, and provides that a society, club or association which lets a part of its premises shall be allowed partial exemption based on rental values, in respect of the portion it occupies for its own purposes. 
Under the bill, the exemption provisions relating to mutual life assurance societies, friendly societies, and other societies, clubs and associations not carried on for pecuniary profit are brought into line. The exemption in each case is limited to the lands occupied by such organizations, and does not extend to lands let to tenants or used in airy other way in competition with other landowners. 
The amendment to section 11 of the act made by clause 3 of the bill is rendered necessary following the amendments made by clauses 4 and 7 to sections 13 and 41 of the act. Clauses 4 and 7 provide that, where land is partially exempt because a building erected thereon is partly occupied by an exempt body, the unimproved value of the part to be exempted shall be determined on the basis of rental values. In the absence of the amendment to section 11, it might be contended that each shop or office separately let must be valued as a separate parcel. This contention would necessitate innumerable hypothetical valuations of rooms and offices creating almost innumerable difficulties which are not met with at present. The amendment will avoid the admission of any such contention, and will enable the practical work of valuation to be carried out as in the past. 
The amendment to section 27 of the act made by clause 5 of the bill is consequential upon the amendment to section 41 made by clause 7 of the bill. As a. life assurance society will in future be taxable in respect of land leased by it, the reference in section 27 (3) to the exemption of life assurance societies in section 41 becomes meaningless and is deleted. 
The amendment made by clause 6 of the bill provides a basis' for the taxation of perpetual leases by prescribing that, the unexpired period of a perpetual lease shall be deemed to be' 100 years. Prior to a decision of the High Court in 1929, it was tha practice of the Land Tax Commissioner to calculate the value of a lessee's estate in a perpetual lease on1 the basis of an unexpired period of" 100 years, but the court's decision indicated that this basis could not he supported at law. The amendment does -not impose any new liability. It merely restores to the taxable field a tenure of land which was subject to tax from the inception of the act in 1910 until the High Court's decision in 1.929. It removes the anomaly that lands held under lease, and having a fixed term, are taxed, whereas other similar lands held under exactly similar conditions, except, that the term is in perpetuity, are not liable to tax. 
The amendment made by clause 2 of the bill providing for the retirement of the Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner of Land Tax at the age of 65 years will bring the holders of those offices into line with officers subject to the provisions of the Public Service Act, who are required to retire at that age. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the hill bc now read a second time. 
This measure is a part of the Government's War-time taxation proposals. It doubles the present rates of land tax which, under the bill, will, for the financial year 1940-41, be the same as those that applied for the year 1926-27. 
The first schedule, rel a tes to residents. Resident taxpayers receive a deduction of £5.000 from the total, unimproved value of the land owned .by them. The rate of tax commences at Id., and l/18750ths of .Id., and increases  uniformly  by l/18750ths of Id. as the taxable value increases until the taxable value reaches £75,000. For every fi of taxable value in excess of £75,000, the rate of tax is a flat rate of 9d. 
The second schedule applies to absentees. They do not receive the deduction of £5,000 allowed to residents in arriving at the taxable value of their land, and, therefore, pay tax on the full unimproved value. For the first £5,000 of taxable value the rate of tax is a flat rate of Id. When the taxable value exceeds £5,000, the rate of tax on the excess up to £80,000 is 2d. and 1/18750ths of a penny, increasing uniformly by l/18750ths of a penny as the taxable value increases, until the taxable value reaches £80,000. For every £1 of taxable value in excess of £80,000 the rate of tax is a flat rate of lOd. Clause 2 provides that land tax calculated in accordance with the formulas in the first and second schedules should be paid for the financial year beginning on the 1st July, 1940, and for al] subsequent years. 
Since the termination of the last war, land tax rates have been reduced by over 50 per cent., and the Government considers that the position should now be reviewed and that land-owners, in common with other sections of the community, should bear their share of the additional burden of taxation, necessary to meet war-time expenditure. It is estimated that the additional revenue to be obtained from .,. the increase of the rates will he £1,500,000, of which £1,450,000 will, it is anticipated, be collected within the financial year. The new rates are the same as those in force for the financial years 1914-15 to 1917-18 inclusive, and 1922-23 to 1926-27 inclusive, whilst they are 16 J per cent, lower than the rates that applied for the financial years 1918-19 to 1921-22 inclusive. During the financial' years 1927-28 to "'1937-38 inclusive, the rates of tax were reduced on three occasions, whilst for the year 1938-39 and the current financial year they were increased by 11.1 per  centover  those of the immediately  preceding  year, bringing (hem to one-half the rates in operation for the financial vear 1926-27.  

 Senator' COLLINGS (QueenslandLeader of t,he Opposition)  [3.13Q.  - This measure is complementary to the taxation proposals of the Government which have already been debated in this chamber. Consequently, I have no desire to delay its passage through the Senate. I can do no more than emphasize what I said in my speech on the Government's financial proposals. This Government's predecessors treated their landed friends  ho  kindly as to reduce land tax by onehalf, an amount of  £8,000,000  being remitted to land-holders in this way during a period of seven years. Under this measure the Government now proposes to recover from its friends a sum less th.au the amount of tax previously remitted in one year. Had those remissions not been made the Government, to-day would have had an additional  £8,000,000  to assist it in the present national emergency. However, I am reminded that " It is too late to shut the stable door when the steed is stolen ". T. have no doubt that in the present crisis the Government needs this money. Consequently, although this measure is somewhat belated, I do not oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second, time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The principal feature of this bill is the substantial increase of income tax proposed to be levied for the ensuing financial year. The additional revenue from income tax which it is anticipated will be collected during the next financial year is approximately £3,500,000. This increased yield, it is estimated, will bring the total income tax collections to £18,500,000. 
The financing of the war-time commitments of the Commonwealth makes further taxation unavoidable, and the raising of a part of the additional revenue necessary for war purposes by this direct and equitable form of income tax will, I am sure, have the endorsement of honorable senators. 
Another feature of importance in the measure is the adoption ofnew formulas for determining the rates at which income tax shall be paid by individual taxpayers. In order that honorable senators may appreciate the reason for the substitution of these new formulas for the old ones, it is necessary that I should review briefly the history of Commonwealth income tax. This form of impost was first introduced by the Commonwealth in 1915 in order to help to finance its expenditure in connexion with the last war. The tax, which at first raised only a comparatively small amount of revenue, approximately £3,000,000, from individuals, fell principally on higher incomes. Middle incomes carried a portion of the burden of the tax but the incomes of wageearners were practically free from its incidence. During the last war, the rates of tax were greatly increased, from time to time, by percentage additions to the original scales; but the range of incomes over which the tax operated was not appreciably extended. Consequently, the tax became most inequitable in its incidence, bearing with undue severity on the higher incomes, falling much less harshly on middle incomes, and barely touching lower incomes at all. 
For a time after the last  Avar  taxpayers experienced substantial relief from this impost; hut subsequently, in periods of financial difficulties, further percentage additions were made to different parts of the scale, resulting in irregularities and anomalies. The need for a thorough revision of the incidence of the tax was realized in 1931, but, in the depth of the financial and economic depression then prevailing, little was done beyond removing the worst of the irregularities so that the general distortion of the original scheme remained practically unaltered. During the depression an important departure from the original scale was made, increased taxation at a flat rate of 2s. in the £1 being imposed on property income, other than interest on conversion loans. This flat rate increase of 2s. in the £1 on property income was gradually diminished during the years of .recovery from the depression, and was finally abolished in 1935-1936. 
Although the special property tax ceased to exist as a separate tax, its effect was not completely eradicated from the taxation scales. Percentage increases of the rates of tax on property income and percentage decreases of the rates on personal exertion income had resulted in a serious extra loading on property income. Whilst some justification might be found for the overloading of the tax on. property income during the depression, the continuance of the overloading after the emergence of the country from the depression cannot be supported. This is one reason for the revision of the existing scale - to correct the disproportionate weight of the tax on1 property income as compared with personal exertion income. 
There is . another reason for the adoption of a new scale. A very substantial sum is required now from income tax. and larger sums may be required in the future, depending on the duration of the war and the extent of our war-time commitments; but it is imperative that we  should  plan according to these considerations. It is necessary, therefore, to overhaul completely the machinery for the imposition and collection of income tax, in order to make it thoroughly effective for the purpose for which it is designed. 
In any demand for increased revenue from income tax, it is natural to look to the incomes in the higher ranges to provide the bulk of the additional sum required. On examination, however, it will be found that the present incidence of Commonwealth and States taxation on the higher incomes leaves insufficient in the field to provide the additional revenue required. Whilst the rates of tax on the higher incomes are being increased, it is necessary to seek a relatively larger contribution to revenue from incomes farther down the scale, principally from the middle incomes. This is the second reason for a revision of the existing formulas and, although the general principles on which those formulas are based are being preserved, it is essential to adapt the scales to our present requirements. 
An outstanding feature of the new formulas when compared with the old is re-adjustment of the rates of tax on property income in order to make them reasonably proportionate to the rates on personal exertion income. As I have already explained, .several causes have contributed to the existing unfair incidence of the tax on property income as compared with personal exertion income, leaving the rates on extensive ranges of property income double and more than double the rates on incomes from personal  exertion. .Et is a generally accepted principle in income taxation that property income should carry a greater share of the burden of the tax than income from personal exertion. There is no justification, however, for a- continuance of the serious disproportion in the rates existing at present. In deciding on the degree of differentiation in the rates, the Government has been guided largely by the practices of the United Kingdom and of the States. It is proposed that the rates oh property income shall be approximately one-third greater than those on personal exertion incomes in the middle ranges of income, and that the difference in the rates shall taper off at both ends of the scale. 
I may first state the reasons why there should be less discrimination between personal exertion and property rates in the higher ranges of income than in the middle ranges. In most large incomes from personal exertion there is a very considerable element of property contributing to the derivation of the income. Cases in Australia of individuals earning £10,000 in a year strictly from personal exertion and unaided by property are extremely rare. The proprietor of a commercial establishment may derive an income of £10,000 from his business, although he takes only a small part in its organization or control. Similarly, a grazier or pastoralist may return £10,000 a year, irrespective of the amount of time or energy spent by him on his property. The income in both the cases I have cited is classed for purposes of income tax as income from personal exertion. However, there is little distinction between the personal exertion of the business man or the pastoralist and that of a taxpayer engaged in the supervision and management of large investments, the income from which is classed as income from property. 
It is established that the very large element of property in most of the large incomes from personal exertion provides a sound reason for a" lessening of the discrimination in the rate of tax on that income in the higher ranges, as compared with corresponding amounts of incomes from property. In the proposed scales now before this Senate the differentiation in the rates on the higher income?! has been narrowed, not by reducing the property rates, but by raising the personal exertion rates to bring them progressively nearer to the property rates on large incomes. 
In the lower ranges of incomes, the property rates have been brought closer to those dealing with personal exertion. Small incomes from property are, generally speaking, derived from the invested savings of a taxpayer by which he is providing for his support and the support of his family on his retirement from active occupation. It is inappropriate that this income should be loaded with .higher taxation in the same manner as property income is loaded in the middle ranges. For this reason the degree of differentiation in the rates on personal exertion and property incomes in the lower ranges has been lessened. 
In fixing any scales of rates for Commonwealth income tax, the rates of tax in operation in the States must be taken into account, as both the Commonwealth and the States occupy substantially the same field in regard to this tax. It is not open to the Commonwealth to discriminate as between taxpayers in the States, so as to levy a greater Commonwealth tax on incomes subject to relatively low State taxation and a lesser Commonwealth tax on income subject to high State taxation. Accordingly, when fixing its own rates of tax, the Commonwealth is obliged to take into account the rates of tax operative in the highest taxing State. This applies at every level of income, so that one State rate sets the limit of the Commonwealth tax over one range of income, and another State rate over another range of income. Whilst the limitations placed on Commonwealth income taxation by the varying rates of the States do not seriously affect the present Commonwealth revenue proposals, it is quite possible that the situation will have to be reviewed if the financial strain of the war increases. The application of the proposed new rates of tax on income from personal exertion will result in increases of the amount of tax payable on that class of income as compared with the amounts levied last year. The increase of tax is relatively greatest on incomes from personal exertion at about the £1,500 mark, where the additional tax is approximately 70 per cent. greater than that payable last year. In the new personal exertion scale, tax at a flat rate of 5d. in the £1 will be payable on taxable incomes up to £500. It should be remembered that taxable income on which tax is levied is the amount remaining after subtracting from income the allowable deductions, e.g., allowances for wife and children, medical expenses, etc. The concessional deductions of £50 for wife and £50 for each dependent child have not been altered. The statutory exemption of £250 remains, but it diminishes more rapidly with the increase of income so that it disappears at £500 now instead of £750. This alteration in the statutory exemption will not affect the tax on the lower incomes so very greatly, and this is evidenced by the fact that a married man with two dependent children and an income of £400 will not be required to pay federal income tax. From 5d. in the £1 on a taxable income of £500 from personal exertion, the rate of tax rises in a steady progression until a rate of 15d. on a taxable income of £1,000 is reached. From £1,000 the rate rises less steeply to 47d. on a taxable income of £4,200. Incomes from personal exertion in excess of £4,200 carry a rate of 47d. on the £4,200, and a rate of 90d. on the excess of taxable income over £4,200. 
The scale for property income has been fixed by increasing the personal exertion rates by roughly one-third in the middle ranges of incomes, and tapering that increase off at either end of the scale. All rates of tax on property income have been increased, but the increase is not so heavy as in the rates on personal exertion income. As I have already stated, the existing personal exertion and property rates are disproportionate, and one of the objects that the Government has kept in view in framing the new scales is to restore the rates to their proper proportions. In the property scale, the rate of 6d. in the £1 is applicable to taxable incomes up to £500. From 6d. at £500 the rate is increased steadily to 21 d. at £1,000, and from there on less steeply to 61d. on £4,200. Taxable income from property in excess of £4,200 is assessed at 9s. in the £1. The hill also provides for the imposition of tax at the flat rate of1s. in the £1 on part of the undistributed profits of companies. This new tax was explained to honorable senators when the Income Tax Assessment Bill was before this chamber. The ordinary rate of company tax at 2s. in the £1 is not being increased. Last year the company's ordinary rate was increased from 13.6d. to 2s. in the £1. The Government considers that, having regard to the increased burden which companies were then called upon to carry, combined with the new tax on undistributed profits of a company and the proposed war-time (company) tax, any increase of the ordinary income tax rate on incomes of companies would not be justifiable at present. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The object of this measure is to make several minor amendments in the principal act. It is proposed to leave out paragraph  b  of sub-section 3 of section 5 of the principal act, which reads, " in the purchase of drilling plants for use in connexion with such search " and to insert in lieu thereof the words "in the purchase of drilling plant for use in connexion with such search The Crown Law authorities have advised that under the existing act the purchase of complete drilling plants only is provided for, and therefore' the proposed amendment, if adopted, will enable the purchase of portions of plants and of special tools, not at present available in Australia. The Government does not propose to purchase any additional drilling plants, but several of those which are on hire at a rental of 10 per cent. of their total cost, have been subjected to such heavy wear that replacements are necessary. When this amend- ment has been made,  bits  and other tools can be purchased as replacements from the funds made available. It is also proposed to insert in sub-section 3 of section 5 a paragraph to enable the Commonwealth, when assisting in the search for oil, to work in conjunction with the States. At present the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the Victorian Government, is conducting a scout drilling campaign in Gippsland. The Commonwealth made an initial contribution of £5,000, and subsequently agreed to contribute a further £2,500. These amounts were made available from funds appropriated under the Petroleum Prospecting Acts of 1926, 1927 and 1928. Under that legislation payments to State governments for geological survey work were permitted ; but the payment of £7,500 exhausted the funds available. It was considered highly desirable to continue scout drilling operations. Accordingly, the payment by the Commonwealth Government of further sums of £1,500 and £2,500, which, together with the £7,500 mentioned, make a total of £11,500, was authorized by the Treasury, pending an amendment of the Petroleum Oil Search Acts 1936. The Victorian Government has contributed a similar amount. It is now considered desirable that recent payments amounting to £4,000 should be made a charge against the trust account established under the act of 1936, and an amendment of the law is necessary to enable that to be done. It is also proposed to insert an additional paragraph in sub-section 3 of section 5 of the principal act to authorize the making of advances to persons and companies engaged in the initial stages of producing petroleum. This will enable assistance to be given in connexion with tests to ascertain whether the oil indications in the bore holes are sufficient to warrant further expenditure in order to bring the area into commercial production. Any such advances will be a charge against the first profits of the grantee. Under the existing legislation the payment of instalments of advances approved is discontinued when drilling operations cease or when oil is discovered. It is intended that these amendments shall be made retrospective to cover the £4,000 recently authorized, and the purchase and hire of portions of drilling plant which from time to time has been found necessary. When the previous legislation of this nature was passed, unfortunately provision was not made to assist State governments engaged in operations such as those now being conducted in Victoria. The new paragraph under which it is proposed to grant assistance during the initial stages of production should he of benefit, because it is during the initial stages of production that financial help is often needed. Such assistance may be the means of bringing a bore to the stage of payable production. At present, operations, which the Government is subsidizing on the £1 for £1 basis, arc being carried on in Gippsland, and should oilbearing strata be reached the work could be continued with this financial assistance. Under existing legislation that could not be done. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the statement whichwas delivered in (the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr. McEwen)  (vide  page 1188). 
I understand that the sole purpose of this bill is to provide that interest on war savings certificates shall be exempt from Commonwealth taxation. The Opposition approves of that principle, and will support the bill. 
I have not consulted with my leader on this matter, but I do not think that any inscribed stock should be free from taxation. It is well known that the bulk of inscribed stock is usually purchased by the banks. 
Is there anything to prevent that? 
In that case I shall not oppose the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
I move - 
That after clauseI the following new clause be inserted: - " 1a. After section fifty-oneB of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1933 the following section is inserted: -    ' 51ba. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any term or condition on which a Treasury Bond, Debenture or other prescribed security is issued or sold, shall be guilty of an offence against this act. 
Penalty: One hundred pounds or imprisonment for six months, or both and, in addition, an amount equal to ten per centum of the nominal value of the Treasury Bond, Debenture or other prescribed security in respect of which the offence is committed ' ". 
The purpose of this amendment is to provide a penalty for non-observance of the condition of the sale of war savings certificates that no person may purchase or own certificates of a. face value exceeding £250. During the debate on this measure in the House of Representatives the right honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  pointed out that there was no penalty for a breach of the condition limiting the purchase and ownership of securities over £250, and the Assistant Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  promised to have the bill amended to provide for such a penalty. The proposed new clause will render persons who do not observe that condition liable to a fine of up to £100, or imprisonment for six months, or both, and an additional penalty equal to 10 per cent. of the face value of the securities. 
I understood that that was to be the object of the amendment,but I should like a little more information on the matter. 
I understand that no person may hold war savings certificates to the value of more than £250. 
I should like to know whether there is anything in the bill to prevent a person from applying for £250 worth of war savings certificates in his own name and then obtaining more such certificates by means of dummies. 
-Are the certificates transferable ? 
I shall oppose the amendment. In the first place I do not agree that the purchase of savings certificates by any one person should be limited to £250. This is one of the best means of raising cheap money for the Commonwealth, and if we are to conduct this war successfully the Commonwealth must obtain money at the lowest possible rate of interest. At present the ordinary rate payable on Commonwealth war loans is from £3 2s. 6d. per cent. to £3 5s.0d. per cent., whereas the money which the Commonwealth Government will raise by means of these war savings certificates will bear interest of only 2½ per cent. during the first five years. That represents a distinctsaving to the Commonwealth, and I see no reason why a limit of £250 should be imposed. Even in the Commonwealth Savings Bank, which gives practically the same rate of interest, each depositor is allowed a maximum of £1,000. Why should a differentiation be made between a Commonwealth Bank depositor, or for that matter a depositor in a State savings bank, and the purchaser of war savings certificates? These certificates are easily negotiable instruments; they can be handed from person to person and from parent to child; they can be cashed within 24 hours after their purchase at any Commonwealth Bank or private bank, although no interest is payable unless they have been current for twelve months. In effect, war savings certificates are exactly the same as bank-notes, and I see no reason why holdings should be limited. I repeat that this is one of  the easiest means by which the Government can procure low interest-bearing money with which to finance our war effort. There are many people with Commonwealth Savings Bank accounts who have morethan £250 available for investment in war savings certificates, and advantage should be taken of that fact to obtain money which, if the certificates be cashed before the expiration of twelve months, will bear no interest at all. "We have heard various opinions expressed as to the best means of raising money to finance our' war activities, and war savings certificates will provide the Government with money at the lowest possible interest rate. 
But it provides for a penalty in the event of a person holding more than £250 worth of certificates. 
The remarks of the honorable senator are exceptionally clever, and their real meaning should he exposed immediately. These certificates are to be issued in order to give people of small means an opportunity to contribute a share of the money required to finance our war-time activities. The bill provides that no person may own more than £250 worth of certificates. It is proposed to make interest derived from war savings certificates free of income tax, and the honorable senator knows that if wealthy men could put their money into war saving certificates, rather than into ordinary Commonwealth loans, they would escape the tax. If wealthy individuals do not voluntarily contribute to Commonwealth loans, no doubt they will soon be forced to do so. The attitude of the honorable senator is an unworthy one, having regard to the serious financial situation with which the Government is faced. Apart from the fact that the amendment was introduced in the House ofRepresentatives  by  a member of the Opposition who is an ex-Prime Minister, I am decidedly in favour of it. A penalty should be provided for every breach of the law. 
. -What  would be the position if  a  person holding £250 worth of certificates came into possession of a further £250 worth, as theresult of a bequest or  a  deed of gift? 
 I made no  suggestion  that any person should be allowed to hold certificates to an unlimited value. I merely drew attention to the  fact  that poor people, with a little  more  than £250 to invest, should have the right to lend their money to the Government  at  the lowest rate of interest at which the Government could possibly borrow. I mentioned that a deposit account at a State savings bank is limited to £1,000, and, in my opinion, a similar limit should be placed on the holding of war savings certificates by an individual. This would enable poor people to help the Government in keeping down the colossal interest bill that the war will pile up. 
 I suggest that progress be  reported,  in order that information may bo supplied regarding the point that I have raised. If a person who already held £250 worth of certificates found himself, under a will, in possession of  a  further number of certificates, would he be liable to the prescribed penalty of £100? We should not leave matters of this kind to lawyers. The Government should clear up the position now. 
Question put - 
That progress be reported. 
.- I move- 
For the purpose of guaranteeing to all the peoples of the world the right to live in security, and to ensure and permanently establish good order, freedom, peaceful development and happiness of humanity, an essential term of peace should be that all the nations whether belligerent or not should be invited to join in establishing one world-armament commonwealth, representative of and equally elected by each, to which they shall under an agreed and indissoluble constitution completely and irrevocably surrender the sole absolute and exclusive control, ownership, manufacture and possession of armaments and all - means and instruments of war, and their sovereign rights in relation thereto. 2. (a.) That such body shall thereupon be given possession of all existing armaments, which shall be held upon trust for the whole as one people to be scrapped or disposed of wholly or to such an extent as the representatives of the nations constituting such body shall determine. (b) Such body shall from its inception be entirely and exclusively responsible for the peace and good order and also the guaranteeing of the otherwise unrestricted rights of free self-government of each of the  nations,  (c)  Such body shall also be exclusively responsible for the enforcement of all or any treaty made between the nations, registration of which with such body shall have been mutually requested by such nations, (d) Such body shall also be responsible for the setting up and maintaining such judiciary as may be deemed essential for determining  breaches  of treaties which may be alleged from time to time, (e) There shall also be vested in such body such incidental powers and authorities that may be agreed upon for the purpose of effectuating the objects for which it is established. 
That this objective should be an indispensable condition or term of peace at the conclusion of the present World War, in lieu of a League of Nations, and that the Allies should refuse to lay down arms  until  this objective is accepted. 
That at any time on receiving satisfactory guarantees of sincerity of desire for this objective an armistice should be permitted for the purpose of a calling of a world-wide convention of all peoples, to thus afford an equally fair and simultaneous opportunity of ridding mankind of the crushing burdens of armaments and the constantly recurring terrors of war. 
This Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, in exercise of its constitutional rights in that behalf, authorizes and directs  Mr. President  to present this resolution to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, respectfully requesting that it be conveyed to  His  Most Gracious Majesty the King, with the Senate's earnest expression of opinion that it should be forthwith communicated to all the nations of the world for the purpose oi examination by them. 
In view of the serious position which faces civilization to-day, I feel sure that honorable senators will concur in my view that I should not press this matter at the present juncture. Consequently, 1 propose to deal only partly with the subject-matter of the motion, and to ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. To-day we must bend our every thought and energy to winning the war in order that we may be enabled to say to the aggressor in this conflict that never again shall we permit a repetition of his act, and also that we may be enabled to utilize human ingenuity to the fullest with the object of constituting a means of prohibition against the use of force and aggression in the future, and so protecting the world against a repetition of the events of the last few months. This objective is possible of achievement. I remind honorable senators that after the last war nearly all of the nations gladly accepted the principle of the League of Nations, believing, as undoubtedly they did, that it would provide a guarantee against the recurrence of war. We have to admit, however, - that however unanimous may be the opinion regarding the desirability of this course, we cannot depend for international protection upon the League of Nations as at present constituted, because one or two nations are expected to do the dirty work. But if the whole of the peoples of the world . were awakened, as they were after the last war - which I hate to think will be almost insignificant in its consequences, compared with the one in which we are now engaged - they would willingly try to devise better means to guarantee future world peace. I hope that at the conclusion of this war in which, at all costs, we must be victorious, we shall be in a position to say to these dictators, " You must understand this : we are resolved to deal fairly with you in the long run, and eventually will give you an equal opportunity to participate in any international arrangement which may be adopted for the control of armaments. But first you must completely surrender your arms ". 
After mature thought I have reached the conclusion that it would be much better if we considered this motion after the present crisis and in the quiet period which, we fervently hope, will follow the successful defence at the present moment by the Allies. It has been suggested by some of my friends who have not taken the trouble to read the terms of my motion and who, I say with all respect, fail to grasp its purport, that the motion may be misunderstood on the other side of the world ; that it may be construed as a move towards peace. To answer this criticism I would direct attention to the third clause of the motion which declares that "the Allies should refuse to lay down arms till this objective is accepted ". Only in the way suggested can we have a reasonable chance of establishing a scheme to guarantee the future peace of the world. Fortunately we have two particularly concrete human documents to fortify us in our endeavours - the Constitutions of the Commonwealth of Australia and of the United .States of America, the underlying principles of which may provide the corrective of this nightmare of world armaments. 
I do not desire to speak at length on this subject to-day because I feel - other honorable senators, I am sure, are in the same frame of mind - too perturbed at what is happening on the other side of the world. Within the last weeks we have read and heard in wireless broadcasts of the terrible plight of those splendid people of the Netherlands, and of the awful sufferings of the industrious Danes and the inhabitants of Belgium. The people of the Netherlands and of Belgium went to bed in peace one night, but before the dawn they wore innocent victims of fearful raids by hordes of German bombing planes and tanks, and subjected to all the horrors of a modern war. Is the world going to stand for a continuance of this state of affairs? Is it not time that we in Australia, as part of the British Empire, actuated by every impulse for good, declared that these things must cease? And in furtherance of our determination, is not every one in this country so resolved to fight until we check the military might of Germany and end for ever aggression by any future Hitlers? I make no apology for submitting the motion to the Senate this afternoon. Ever since I have been a member of this chamber I have held the view that, under the Constitution, the Senate has every right to express its opinion' on matters of deep importance. This chamber was not created a rubber stamp merely to signify its approval of legislation sent to it from the House of Representatives. Under the Commonwealth Constitution, and in accordance with the Standing Orders and practice of the House of Commons, which have never been challenged, there is in the Senate an inherent right to express its views on matters of foreign and domestic concern and to convey its opinion to  His  Majesty the King through  His Excellency  the Governor-General. In that way it is possible to focus world opinion on any matter which the Senate, in its wisdom, may consider vitally affects the welfare of humanity. I regret that hitherto this inherent right of the Senate has not been exercised more frequently, and I venture the opinion that if people outside are inclined to say unkind things of this branch of the Commonwealth legislature, it is because they do not understand what is its exact function under the Constitution. Many people think that it is its duty merely to approve legislation passed by the House of Representatives. If that impression gets abroad it will be because we have failed to exercise those rights and privileges which were won for us by our forefathers in the mother of Parliaments. If the Senate fails in its duty, we, as members of this chamber, deserve to have unkind things said about us. 
It is my wish that this motion should be treated as wholly nongovernmental. It in no way commits this, or a future government, to take any definite course. If Ministers take part in the discussion they will do so, not as members of the Government, but as individual senators. I hope that, when the time conies for the resumption of the debate on this motion, there will be a better world atmosphere, and I sincerely believe that the scheme to be envisaged will not take years of organization to complete. Notwithstanding all that  Mr. Clarence  Street has said it that admirable book of his,  Union Now,  and  Mr. R.  G. W. McKay has said in  Federal Europe,  I prefer the view of  Mr. Attlee,  that most influential member of the House of Commons - doubtless he would be my political opponent if he were in this Parliament - the Leader of the British Labour party, and now  Deputy  Leader of the British Government.  Mr. Attlee  has declared that, at the appropriate time, we must establish some international force for the suppression of aggression in the future. 
As I have said, I am hoping that soon we shall be able to discuss this motion at the favorable turn of the tide and in a better atmosphere than exists at the present time. At the moment we are filled with admiration of the magnificent efforts being made by the people of Great Britain and our French ally. The rising spirit of patriotism which is being evidenced in all classes of the people in England and France is most inspiring. The events of the last few weeks have shown also that the people of Australia, too, are resolved to stand together to preserve those liberties which we prize so highly. In other times and in respect of matters of domestic concern, we claim the right to quarrel and argue amongst ourselves; but now, when the Empire is threatened,  we have come together in a firm resolve to meet, the menace of slavery and end it. A little later, in that better atmosphere which, by the grace of God, will come, I shall have no hesitation in calling upon my fellow-senators to exercise their inherent right to send out to the world an invitation to consider, in preparation for victory, the proposal outlined in my motion. It can only be for the good of humanity if it prevents a recurrence of aggression by future Hitlers. In this chamber there are members who remember three terrible acts of aggression by the German nation against our ally, the people of France. Some honorable senators can recall the Franco-Prussian war of 1870; nearly all have vivid memories of the Great War of 1914-18; and now we are in the throes of a still more terrible conflict, in which the driving force is the younger generation of a new and criminal Germany, whose purpose, it would seem, is to enslave the world. We are resolved to oppose that menace to the very death. 
Whilst  eventually I would allow the... German nation to take part in this suggested scheme to control world armaments, I would say that we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that the corruption of the German youth movement has been directly responsible for the present conflict, which so gravely threatens our civilization. Therefore, I suggest that, however magnanimous we may feel at the victorious conclusion of this war towards our present enemy, a period of ten or fifteen years should elapse before we could allow that nation to participate in any organization for the control of arms, because the people of Germany have demonstrated beyond all doubt that, as yet, they are not to be trusted. Having said this much, I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
The war news during the last few days has caused a great deal of disquiet among the people of this country, and the statement made this afternoon by  Senator Collett  has not relieved the tension very much.  Senator Abbott,  in his speech on another subject a few moments ago, made mention of the British House of Commons. Yesterday, the Commons passed an emergency measure which will affect profoundly the whole of the British Empire. Honorable senators will, of course, know that I refer to the measure vesting in the British Government supreme control of the whole of the nation's resources for the prosecution of the war. This drastic legislation followed the formation of the national cabinet, and it was introduced by  Mr. Attlee,  the Leader of the Labour party, who is now the  Deputy  Leader of the House of Commons. The measure gives to the Government complete authority over every man, woman and child in Great Britain and over all industrial and private resources. Inferentially, it will enable the Government to control the business of banking. When I spoke on this motion last week I said that although the Government has the power to direct the Commonwealth Bank to make credit available, free of interest, it refuses to exercise it in the interests of the people. Does  Senator Gibson  think that when the bill which has justbeen passed by the British Parliament is in operation the British Government will allow the banking institutions to do as they like? 
What is the use of using the word " may " when the nation is at death's door? The British Government has obtained power to assume control of all businesses, and surely businesses include banking institutions? What would be the use of such an act if the banks were excluded? 
That may yet have to be done, but will the present Government do it? My interpretation of the news broadcast this morning concerning the bill passed by the British Parliament on Tuesday is that the British Government will control the British banks. That statute gives the British Government the power to control every man, woman, child and business, and, as banking is a business, it would be only common sense to include the banks. 
Our actions are either morally right or morally wrong; governments cannot be moderately honest. If the Government refuses to exercise its power over the banking institutions in Australia, it is lacking in recognition of its moral duty. Honorable senators opposite continue to smile. The atmosphere in this chamber and in the House of Representatives has not changed since war was declared. Honorable senators persist in laughing at serious statements, and in neglecting to carry out the responsible duties which they are expected to perform on behalf of their constituents. They will find that the British banking institutions will have to be taken over in order to maintain the solvency ofthe nation. In 1914 the governor of the Bank of England and its directors went cringing to the British Government asking it to save them. The nation must change its monetary policy in order to enable it to obtain money free of interest for war, or in fact for any other national purpose. Now that Labour men are members of the British Cabinet immediate steps will be taken in that direction. We have been told that we should tune in to the Old Country. 
In the matter of finance  "we  shall have to tune in with Great Britain, if this dreadful conflict is to be carried to a successful conclusion. I remind  Senator Abbott  who referred so affectionately to the Mother of parliaments that the legislation to which I have been referring was passed by that parliament. In view of the action taken within the last few days by the British House of Commons, will the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  dare to continue to adhere to the present financial policy? The Government, instead of obtaining loans free of interest as it has the power to do, continues to tax the people to an unreasonable degree. In 
Britain they have not a peoples bank such as we have in Australia, because the Bank of England is a private institution of which the people know little. Every employee is sworn to secrecy, and the only information disclosed is that concerning its transactions with the British Government. On Friday last I said that  Mr. Stokes,  a member of the British House of Commons, had asked if the government was prepared to introduce legislation to compel the Bank of England to disclose the names of its shareholders and the way in which the bank was conducted.  Sir John  Simon stated most definitely that such legislation would not be introduced and investigations in the direction suggested would not be made. In Australia there is no need to pass similar legislation to ascertain the facts. We already have the power, as paragraph 530 of the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems states that - 
In our view the proper relation between the two authorities are these: - 
That is the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Bank Board. 
The Federal Parliament is ultimately responsible for monetary policy and the government of the day is the executive of Parliament. 
Why should it not do so? The Government's taxation proposals outlined this afternoon by the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  show clearly that the Government does not propose to utilize the credit of the nation, although if the credit were utilized there would be no need to tax the people. It is the duty of the Commonwealth Bank Board which has certain powers delegated to it by statute, to exercise those powers in the interest of the community. The Commonwealth Bank Board is the servant of the Commonwealth, and, unlike the judiciary, is under its direction. Paragraph 530 continues - 
The Commonwealth Parliament has certain powers delegated to it by statute, and the board's duty to the community is to exercise those powers to the best of its ability. When there is a conflict between the government's view of what is best in the national interest and the Board's view the first essential is a full and frank discussionbetween the two authorities with a view to explaining the whole problem...Incases in which it isclear beyond doubt that the differences are irreconcilable the government should give the bank an assurance that it accepts full responsibility for the proposed policy and is in a position to take, and will take, any action necessary  to  implement it ... 
The royal commission stated that Parliament is ultimately responsible for any monetary policy. It would be interesting to know if honorable senators opposite realize what responsibility really means. 
But the Government, which is the executive of Parlia- ment, has full powerto do whatever the Parliament is constitutionally competent to do. Why does the Government disregard a power by which it can obtain money free of interest. I have cited the finding of a royal commission appointed by the Government, but all ofits findings have been ignored. Eighteen months ago I. asked whether the Government intended to afford Parliament an opportunity to discuss the findings of the commission before an approaching Christmas vacation, and I was given a definite reply in the affirmative, but only a fortnight agoI was told that no such opportunity could now be given. I recall that thelate Prime Minister told his constituents that if the Government which he was their leading was returned power a royal commission would be appointed to inquire into our banking and monetary systems. The commission was appointed, and although it conducted a searching inquiry, and examined numerous witnesses its recommendations have been totally disregarded. Recently I asked the Minister representing the Treasurer what amounts had been subscribed toy thebanks and by the Commonwealth towards the last war loan, and I was informed that it was not in the interests of the nation to disclose the information. Why should it be withheld? The bill which passed the British Parliament within the last few days is of such outstanding significance that is cannot be disregarded. Australia is a. member of the British Commomwealth of Nations, and, if it is in the interests of the: Mother of parliaments to pass such a measure, surely a similar bill should be submitted to this Parliament. I was very glad to learn that.  Mr. Grenfell,  a member of the British House of Commons: who visited Australia recently, has been included in the National Government, and the only way in which Australia can be saved is. by strengthening our Cabinet with men of intelligence. In the Parliamentary Library, which cost thousands of pounds to establish and a considerable sum to maintain, there are numerous books supporting, the arguments which I have adduced from time to time but honorable senators apparently have not read them. At. any rate no one has had the temerity to say that the views that I have advanced are. entirely wrong. The Commonwealth will either have. to. adopt the financial policy which I am advocating or repudiate its. liabilities. At the termination of the last war, Great Britain had a war debt of £9,000,000,000. The measure recently passed by the British Parliament is to enable it to obtain money free of interest, otherwise it will be unable to finance its war obligations. The Empire is  at  deaths' door because it, has. refused to adopt a sound financial system. The British ex-Prime Minister had to go down on his knees at Munich because Britain could not finance a war. 
SenatorFraser.  -  How  is  Germany arranging its finances? 
Under a policy which Britain must adopt. For the last four years Germany has been using the resources of thenation, and that is what Australia will have to do if the enemy is to be defeated. 
I do not make statements which. I cannot substantiate. I studied, political economy long: before I became a member of this chamber. If the royal commission recommended that money could be made available by the Commonwealth Bank free of interest why has not finance been obtained from that source?. It is true that the commission did not direct theCommonwealth to obtain money in that way;  it  would not have been prudent to do so. Several weeks ago I directed the attention of honorable senators to the discussion, which occurred at a meeting of the Loan Council when the Treasurer of Tasmania,.  who is one of the ablest men in Australia, said that the determination of the Menzies Government to raise a loan of £10,000,000 through the private banks at 3½ per cent. was an ignoble concession to anantiquatedsystem of finance. He also said that ifwe are victorious in the conflict we shall be ruined financially, and that it is just as necessary to defeat the present financial system as it is todefeat the Germans. He went on to say that instead of facing up to the situation, the Government had connived with the private banks to share part of the boodle obtained through the raising of loans. Was there ever a stronger condemnation of any government? Will any honorable senator opposite say that he disagrees with that finding? 
Apparently  Senator James  McLachlan believes that the duty of the (Commonwealth Government in this time of crisis is to load taxpayers with heavyimpositions. 
 Mr. President,I  ask that that assertion be withdrawn. 1 shall allow no one to question myveracity or my honesty of purpose. I have been quoting the finding of a royal commission, and I ask that the reflection on any integritybe withdrawn. 
-If thehonorable senatortakes exception to the remark,  Senator James  McLachlan should withdraw it. 
Here is what  Sir Robert  Gibson, a servant of the Government, wrote in reply to the representations made by the then Prime Minister and the Treasurer - 
Dear  Mr. Theodore.  - With reference to your discussions with the directors of the bank board on the subject of the rehabilitation of the financial and industrial position of Australia, when it was agreed that some concerted effort must be made to cope with the situation and so avoid, if possible, the ultimate disaster which will otherwise eventually face the country, I am requested by my board to convey to you a resolution of the board as set forth hereunder: - 
Subject to adequate and equitable reductions in all wages, salaries, and allowances, pensions, social benefits of all kinds, interest and other factors which affect the cost of living, the Commonwealth Bank Board will actively co-operate with the trading banks and the Governments of Australia in sustaining industry and restoring employment. 
Although there had been no change in the constitution of the Commonwealth Rank since that time, the royal commission in 1935 expressed the opinion that the Commonwealth Bank had the power to issue interest-free money to the Commonwealth Government. Will any honorable senator opposite deny that that was the royal commission's finding?Surely it is abundantly clear that the Commonwealth Bank has ample power to issue credit. 
The Secretary of State,  Mr. Cordell  Hull, said at a press conference yesterday that the United States of America Government had not yet given serious attention to any suggestion for taking over Allied possessionsin the western hemisphere,either in payment of war debts, for national defence, or with the consent of the Allies. 
Many roundabout methods are employed by high finance. 
To the best of my belief, three-fourths of the amount of the last Commonwealth loanwasraised through the private hanks. The Government has informed me that, of the£18,000,000 raised,£12,000,000 was supplied by the private hanks. The Commonwealth Bank belongs to the people of Australia.  It  has alreadypaid profits to theamountof £30,000,000. It foundmoney for theconstruction ofthe East-West Railway. 
I have cited the greatest British authoritiesduring the last 70 years to show the extent to which governments could utilize the credit of the nation. I have referred honorable senators 'to the statement by the "Right Honorable Thomas Johnson, a former Lord Privy Seal, who occupied oneof the highest positions in the British realm, that the British hanks hadissued creditduringthe last war to theamount of £200,000,000. The British Commonwealthof Nations is engaged in  a  death struggle. Nobody believed until a short time ago that it would be possible for the people of Britain and:France to get into the position in which they now find themselves. I remember that, when Britain partly disarmed after the last war, great joy was felt because taxes would be reduced.Now we shall have to find £180,000,000 if this, war lasts for a year' or two. So long, as bond's, are issued to private banks, and tha Government has the capacity to tax tha people in order to pay the interest bill, it. will not worry much about how much it borrows. If the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  desired to instruct theCommonwealth Bank to morrowtoissue credit to the amount of £50,000,000 he could do it, according to thefindingofthe royal commission, on banking. Why should he not do it? TJ interest at 3 per cent, were paid to the Commonwealth Bank cox. the: next loan of £20,000,000 that interest would go backto thecountry in the form of bank profit. Would anyhonorablesenator say that the privatebankscould find as much money asthe Commonwealth Bank, which is backed by the credit of the nation? The private banks can lend only against their deposits. If the people take moneyoutof thebankstobuy inscribed stock, the  landing  capacity, of the banks is reduced to the extent of the withdrawal. The Government isinducingthe people to do that by issuing war savings certificates. Against whathas £9,000,000,000 been lent in England? 

 Senator DARCEY.That policy has not been adopted in Australia, because we have a banks' government in power; otherwise there would not be so many interjections from supporters of the Government when I address the chamber on monetary matters. 
The money required to finance our  war- time  activities  is  being raisedin three ways. The first is by means of taxes contributed by the people. This money  is  confiscated out of their earnings. The Government makes a demand for money,  and  thepeople have to pay  it.  The sec ond  wary  is  by bank credit, whichis simply counterfeit money,  it  is not mcauley ate aft When I invited Professor Copland to takenoticeofthecost, of thecommodity known as bank credit, which is manu- factured on the premises) the raw material being pens, ink and pa-pea;, and issold tothe public  at  a profit not less, than 100 per cent., he did not know how to reply to me. The Prices Commissioner has not yet tackled this: problem.Under the second method, that of raising counterfeit money, the taxpayer, gets  no.  security, but. the banks,, who merely find the counterfeit money,, get a bond bearing interest. The third way is by borrowing the people's savings, which I describe  as  bought money. An interestbearing government security  is  given for this. All of these three methods are different, buta unit of each kind of money wil buy the same amount of goods, munitions or services.All have the same purchasing power. Bank credit is merely an entry  in a  ledger. Despite  Mr. Dunstan,  the Premier ofVictoria, the Victorian Country party carried a motion a few weeks ago demanding that the Commonwealth Bankbe used to finance our war expenditure and the primary producers. The United Australia party Government  in  South Australia secured the passage of a similar motion  in  the Parliament of that State by seventeen votes to thirteen, and similar action  Avas  taken  in  the Parliament's of Tasmania and Western Australia. The Parliament of Western Australia agreed'  to  the motion  on  the voices. 
.- I commend the Government on the wisdom of its choice of  Mr. Essington  Lewis and Brigadier-General Lloyd as Director of Munitions Supply and Director of Recruiting respectively. Both of these gentlemen possess driving power to a marked degree. The time has now come for action. Impersonal talks on the  air  are useless. Personal touch with tne nation's eligible manhood is needed. 1 know of scores of returned soldiers with good war records who would be prepared to take the platform or " soap box " in urging greater response to recruiting. The number of men in uniform now is relatively less than the number at the same period of the last war, having regard to our population then and now. The statement that we cannot have more men because of lack of equipment does not hold water. Industrially, our position is ten times better than it was in 1914-18. The age limit should be revised on a graduated scale, the younger men being drafted to units which actually do the fighting, and the older personnel being utilized further away from the battle zone. I strongly advocate combing out the fit young men in Victoria Barracks, headquarters of divisions, motor transport units, ordnance workshops, legal corps, pay corps, and similar unite, and replacing them with older men. Hundreds of middle-aged men are only too anxious and willing to perform some national service. Such action, I venture to say, will, indirectly, favorably affect recruiting. 
In regard to the Royal Australian Air Force, why are fit pilots, each of whom cost the taxpayer over £1,000 to train, doing clerical work which could be done by other personnel? Why is such a high standard of medical fitness required for Air Force administrative personnel? A reduction of this standard would free the fitter men for more active duties with the air service. Many men with little or no military training would welcome an opportunity to serve voluntarily in the Militia. What does it matter if the personnel of the Militia are now chiefly national service trainees? Representations have been made to me by men of military age in reserved occupations, who are concerned to know w'hy, in their leisure time - at nights and week-ends - facilities cannot be afforded them to receive some military training, in anticipation that the occasion may arise when even the reserve occupations categories w.ill need to be radically amended. They point out that no pay is desired and no uniform is needed. Only instructors in some phase of military training are required, so that when the time comes these men will be enabled to take their place in the ranks with a certain amount of confidence. The objection of expense can be ruled out, as the great majority of these men are in metropolitan areas where facilities, such as drill halls, are available for such training. Scores of ex-service men, with a fortnight's refresher course, would be only too willing to give their services as instructors without, remuneration. 
I hope that the Minister  (Senator Foll)  representing the Minister for the Army will bring these recommendations to the notice of his colleague, and that any difficulties, or objections raised, will be brushed aside in the interests of a more active participation in the present war. 
With regard to munitions supplies, the critical situation overseas demands thai the Government shall take steps under the National Security Act to withdraw, skilled tradesmen from private engineering establishments and transfer them to thu munitions works at Maribyrnong and Lithgow. Private orders must take second  place  to government requirements. Supplies must be speeded up. Three shifts must be worked continuously. We can rely upon  Mr. Essington  Lewis to do the speeding  up. 
I have read with very great interest the Treasurer's financial statement, butI have not been very much impressed by it. It is very loosely worded, and, in many respects, misleading. As I shall not have tune to deal with all of the points which I should like to discuss, I propose to speak on the more important aspects. The first is the Treasurer's statement with respect to unemployment - 
The attainment of a high general level of employment and industrial activity necessitates a major change of emphasis in our financial methods. 
I propose to show that that statement is misleading. The unemployment position in Victoria is similar to that in all of the States, with the exception of New South Wales, where unemployment is probably worse than in any other State. This problem has a direct bearing on our 
Avar  effort, because the existence of large numbers of unemployed proves beyond all doubt that the Government is not making the best use of our available man-power for the purpose of building up our material resources. The Treasurer's statement was issued on the 2nd May, but I have here a report dealing with the unemployed position in Victoria. It was issued on the 8th May, and shows that unemployed registrations in that State up to the 4th May totalled 5,919 in  the metropolitan area of Melbourne and 5,249 in the country districts up to the 31st April. At the 5th May, the number of unemployed on relief work was 4,400, whilst benevolent cases at that date totalled 473, making a total of registered unemployed in Victoria of 16,041, which is slightly less than the figure of 16,500 for April. I point out, however, that all of the unemployed do not register. The Central Unemployment Committee in Melbourne, which has a branch in every important centre in Victoria, estimates the number of unregistered unemployed in that State at approximately 8,000, making 24,041 unemployed in all. This figure does not include the dependants of unemployed. A man who is not eligible for sustenance under the permissible income regulations is not likely to register as being unemployed. For example, a father living with two of his children, both of whom earn up to £1 10s. a week, would not find it worth his while to register as unemployed, because he would not be eligible for sustenance. Our committee estimates the unemployed in Victoria at present at 16,041 registered and 8,000 unregistered.  Mr. Lees,  the secretary of the Central Unemployment Committee, in Melbourne,is an exCommonwealth official and a qualified accountant, and, therefore, he is competent to speak on this matter. Ho wrote to me as follows: - 
According to latest figures, the number registered is11,335 and the number on relief work 4.400. making a gross total of 15,735, as against16.601 on the 2nd March, 1940, so far as metropolitan registrations were concerned, andthe 31st January, . 1940, so far as country registrations were concerned. The reduction is not due to any increased absorption of the unemployed by private industry, but in consequence of defence expenditure. It is anticipated that the numbers will increase as the winter advances. A great deal of distress exists in the congested areas in consequence of the inadequate supply of boots and clothing to meet the winter needs. There is also a shortage of firewood. The coal strike has had its effect onfirewood supplies owing to the limitation of railwaytransport. 
Nothing has been done to meet the Central Unemployment Committee's demands on the Government for better treatment of the unemployed single men and women. The Government also has not complied with its request for the rates of sustenance to be increased for married couples without children. These and other matters will be further urged upon the Government through the parliamentary Labour party immediately. 
The question of providing a fuller measure of full-time work also demands attention, as it is observed that instead of increasing the number of men on a limited period of full-time work, the Government has decreased the number 400. 
The position of the problem in this State indicates that the federal defence expenditure affects the unskilled unemployed labourer very little. 
Some joint action will have to be taken by the Federal and State Governments to provide a spirited policy of public works, especially during the winter, to meet the dire needs of the unemployed. 
In a letter addressed to the  Age,  Melbourne, on the 5th May,  Mr. Lees  wrote - 
When the scheme of unemployment relief started in 1930, a man, wife and three children were expected to live on 10s. a week. 
As the result ofconstant agitation, the various governments have increased the amount from time to time until  to-day  the same family  receives  sustenance amounting to £2 5s. (id. a week. The basic wage at present is £41s. a week. Does the  Age  consider that£2 5s.6d. a week is sufficientto maintain a family of live or docs it want -us to go back to10s. a week in order to give relief  to  the taxpayer? Although the increase in the rates of sustenance has been substantial since the introduction of the scheme, it must not be overlooked thatto receivethe £25s.6d.aweek the man must work for it at the awardrates. The original l0s. was , a gift. To-day, 92 per cent, of the sustenance recipients work for their sustenance. 
Did the honorable senator hear me voice any objection on that point? I am now giving information , on the subject, because I have heard honorable senators opposite refer to the unemployed as people who either do not want or will not work - 

 The basic wage is considered to  be  theminimum upon which a family can be maintained in the Stateof Victoria. So far as the suste- nance workers are concerned, a man, wife and threechildren are compelled to live upon a little over one-half of this amount. The  Age  stresses the point that sustenance may be earned up to  £3  17s.6d. a week. This would only be possible in thecase of a man, wife and ten children, and even in such a case where any member of the family earned 9s. a week or over, the amount of sustenance would be reduced.by5s. a week for each member working. 
The cost ofliving is rising and sustenance remains stationary, therefore,increases on such items as rent, bread, potatoes, meat,milk,  &amp;c.,  materiallyreduce the purchasing power of the present meagre sustenance earnings. Assuming that the whole amount of their earningsare devoted  to  the purchase of food stuffs, it would only allow five and one-fifth pence per meal per member for a family of five.Further, provision must be madefor  rent,  clothing and other necessary items to maintain the family. 
He states further - 
It is clear from the fluctuations that are taking place at thep resent time that the reduction inthenumber of the unemployed is temporary. The reduction is not due to the absorption of the unemployed in private industry. It is largely caused by numbers of the unemployedenlisting inthe Australian ImperialForce, and many of them being called up for Militia service, whilst others are replacing men in private industry who are compelled to  do  aperiod of home training. It is found thatthe federal war expenditure gives very little employment to the unskilled man. The fact that the unemployedhave not been given ahigher  standard of  livingthan thatwhich causes so much misery and starvation to their families onthe ground that no funds wereavailable, whilst at the same time millions can be raised for war purposes, is a serious indictmentagainst existing conditions. 
In his financial statementthe Treasurer declared that the employmentposition was improving steadily. I submit on the evidenceofthe registrations ofunemployed in theGovernmentbureau and the evidenceof thecentral unemployment, committee, that therehas been very little, if any improvement. Therefore the Treasurer's statement is quitemisleading. Whenstatements of thatkind are made without anyattemptto submit facts to support them,honorable senators on this side cannot be expected toattach much value to other pronouncements of some members of theGovernment.The Treasurer also saidthat no further increase of the national income couldbe expected even from the most successful handling of theunemployment position. Are we to take it thatthe thousands of unemployed persons inthis country are 100 per cent, incapable of doingany work, and that nothingcanbedonetoconvert theminto contributors to, rather than dependents on, the national income ? I contend that at least 75 per cent of the workless could be usefully employed to the benefit of themselves and the community as . a whole. This Government is reallyresponsibleto private enterprise for itsexistence, and private enterprise depends on a large reserve army of unemployed for thepurposeofenforcingtheacceptanceof the lowest rates of wages that can be offered. 
-It is correct. We have heardthe statementrepeated  adnauseamthat,  in its war activities, theGovernmentintends tomake the f ullest use of the man-power andmaterial resources of the nation. Thatis not being done, and no explanation has been offered for the failure oftheGovernment to do what it claims to be doing. The reason is that the Governmentknows,and most employers know, that if thewhole of the unemployedpersons in Australiawere absorbed to-morrow those who are in employment and are under-paid and working under " sweated ", conditions, would immediately demandhigher rates and better treatment.That is the reason why this reserve army of unemployed  is kept in existence not only in Australia, but, also in every other country underthe control of the capitalist system. 
The Treasureralsosaidthatrising prices were a prolific causeof individual injustice and industrial unrest. With that statement I fully agree. It is indis- putablethattheincreasing cost of living; in terms of commodities, more particularly as; it affects unemployed persons in the community, is the root cause of industrial unrest, as it also is one of the root causes of unemployment, poverty and crime; yet to date, although the war has been in progress: since September, 1939, this Government has not attempted tosolve the problem, to the degree  that  it is solvable andshould be solved. 
 Yes, because the Commonwealth Government is endowed with much wider powers thanarevested in State governments which, in actual fact, are subordinate to theCommonwealth. 
The Commonwealth Government being armed with plenary powers, could put every able and willing person to work to-morrow-, provided it had the will to do so. 
 And that trouble was due to the cause mentioned by the Treasurer, so actually this Government has been an accessory before and after the fact.The Treasurer also said - The Governmenthastherefore set up  a  control  to  prevent the unnecessary rise of prices which are likely  to  take place  from  fear, uncertainty or greed. 
I say without reservation that that statement is absolutely incorrect, and, I believe that the Treasurer knows it to be incorrect. The present foam of price control exists merely  to  stabilize and prevent? a reductionofprofits: It does  not  provide for a reduction of the exhorbitant rents paid in every capital city and in almosteverycountry centre, or the unnecessary andinflated overhead  charge  which are employed to prevent a reduction of prices. The present system of pricecontroldoes not provide for a reductionof the excessive profits now being made as a means ofpreventing an increase of prices. Inthis connexion I cite the following paragraph which appeared in theStockExchangeOfficialRecord,of November,  1939,  with respect  to  the financial position of a company,  known  asFelt and Textiles of Australia Limited :  - 
The directors of the company are.: -  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene, K.C.M.G.  (Chairman ), Henri Van de Velde (Managing Director), Sir George  F. Pea rce, P.C., K.C.V.O., J. K. Heydon, A. J. Vale, C. Rhodes-Smith and John H. Titchen. Expansion, largely financed with £288,927 of ordinary capital issued for cash in the1937 calendar yearhas resulted in aggregate profits of £33,808 higher at £94,184 for this company and its numerous subsidiaries. The earning rate on average-paid ordinary capital has risen from 12.2 per cent., to 1 5.2 per cent., and unchanged ordinary dividends of 10 per cent. ( £57,899 ) have left nearly a third of the years' profits undistributed. 
When  Sir George  Pearce who was once a member of this chamber, terminated his political career, he told us that after  30  years of parliamentary life, during most of which time he was a Minister, he was a comparatively poor man. He is now a director of this wealthy company, so either he must have invested sufficient money to qualify him for that position, or he has been rewarded for services rendered. 
Sena tor CAMERON. - A man who has not a competency is a poor man. The point I wish to stress is that although profits are increasing, it is not suggested by those controlling prices that profits should be reduced to prevent an increase of prices. When those controlling prices authorize higher rates, it is the poorer section of the community which suffers. There are adjustable rates of wages  for  workers registeredunder our arbitration legislation, but others exist on wages lower than those received by unionists, or have to depend upon sustenance received  from  the State. Continual increases of prices affect the unemployed to a greater degree than any other section of the commn unity. Ifthey were in a position to resist as effectively as are other sections their position would be better than it is to-day. Since August of last year, the price of tea was increased by 5d. per lb. Subsequently there was a reduction of1d. per lb., leaving an actual increase of 4d. In Victoria and possibly in other States, the price of bread has been increased. 
In Victoria it has been increased by from1/2d. to1d. a 4-lb. loaf. 
A Labour government is never in power when it is opposed by an anti-Labour legislative council. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

The form of price control in operation to-day simply has the effect of stabilizing, or preventing a. reduction of, profits and does not in any way prevent an increase of prices. If profits are being increased then prices are being increased. I draw attention to the fact that  Sir George  Pearce, a former member of this Senate, who is occupying two well-paid Government positions, is also managing director of one of the wealthiest companies in Australia, the profits of which are progressively increasing. Obviously the prices charged by that company must be increasing. In passing I should like to draw attention to the position of  Mr. Essington  Lewis. That gentleman has been placed in charge of the supply of munitions, but it will be impossible for him to prevent increases of the prices of munitions and of other war requirements while at the same time the company with which he is associated is making profits out of those goods. If he acts as he should as a Government official, then the company of which he is a director can make little or no profit; but if he considers what he regards as the rights of his company, prices will rise the detriment of the people. He cannot faithfully serve two masters. AsI have said, profits cannot increase unless prices increase. Let us examine,  for  instance, the price of bread.  Herewe  find a paradoxical situation.  There is  in Australia more wheat than we can consume or dispose of through normal channels, and according to the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron),  the carry-over for next year is estimated at 60,000,000 bushels. Yet the price of bread has been increased, and as there has been no corresponding increase of the purchasing power of the people, fewer loaves will be baked. I ask the Government, or anybody else who is prepared to answer the question : What is to be done with the huge surplus of wheat? The only answer 1 have heard given to that question is that the production of wheat willbe restricted. But a restriction of production means also a restriction of consumption, and if that course is to be followed - all indications are that it will be followed - the Government will not be doing the. best, that can be done in the interests of the people. The Government's price-fixingscheme in operation to-day is merely a pretence and a fraud. The impression conveyed to the people is that the Government is protecting them against increased prices, but actually nothing of the sort is being done. In this regard the position that has arisen in England is one of the reasons why the Chamberlain Government had to make way for the Churchill Government. The pressure of public opinion, and the resentment of the people generally against the make-believe price-fixing system, was such that the Government was removed from power. So far as we can judge from press reports and broadcasts, the British Government has invited Labour men to assist its endeavours to prevent profiteering, and deal with speculators and others who profit by restricted production and consumption, and increased prices. According to the broadcast and published reports, drastic action will be taken against these people. If the war continues, a similar position will arise in Australia, and the Commonwealth Government will have to do what the Churchill Government now proposes to do or make way for another government which will take that action. Profiteering cannot go on indefinitely. It constitutes a. serious obstacle to the attainment of greater efficiency and national mobility. In Australia there is a large number of unemployed who cannot buy  bread and a huge surplus of wheat which cannot be disposed of. But nothing has been done towards remedying this intolerable state of affairs. I point out that when the price of wheat was 2s. a bushel or less, the price of bread was only1d. or 11/2d. a loaf less than it is to-day. That is evidence of the existence of an outside organization - possibly controlled by financial interests - the activities of which have resulted in price increases which apparently have been acquiesced in by the Government. There is no reason why the price of tea should have been increased. If. owing to circumstances over which they bad no control, retailers found that they could not sell their tea and pay their way, they should have been subsidized out of Consolidated Revenue. They who are in the best position to pay would pay the most of the tax involved and those who are in the worst position would pay nothing at all. That amounts to reversing the incidence of taxation. It has been said also that the cost of production is mainly responsible for the increased prices. As a matter of fact, it has been claimed by the manufacturers of bread that the high cost of producing a loaf is one of the main reasons for an increase of the price. I emphasize strongly that in terms of labour time and gold - the only real measure of value and the only way in which one can judge whether or not costs are increasing - the cost of production was never lower than it is to-day. In Inthe same terms, the cost of growing wheat was never lower than it is to-day. That is absolutely true, and I defy contradiction. I have said this repeatedly and I invite honorable senators to show where I am wrong. I repeat that in terms of labour time and gold, the real cost of production of most of our essential commodities, particularly bread, meat and other products which exist in abundance in Australia to-day was never lower. Today, £2 10s. in notes is needed to purchase the same quantity of goods that could be purchased in 1907, and for some years afterwards, by a £1 note which had the purchasing value of a sovereign. I invite honorable senators to dispute that. Had the purchasing power of the £1 note been maintained, then, in terms of our depreciated currency, the basic wage of £2 2s. in 1907 to-day would be £5 5s. instead of £41s. Here is the method by which those figures are arrived at: Two sovereigns at £2 10s. each amount to £5, and 2s. as one-tenth of a sovereign at £2 10s. is5s., giving a total of £55s., which is what the basic wage would be today had the purchasing power of 1907 been maintained. In terms of our depreciated currency, the cost of production was never lower than it is to-day. The people are misled, confused and imposed upon, and unless honorable senators opposite are prepared to take a drastic and radical stand against this sort of thing, they will be replaced just as the Chamberlain Government was replaced. The effect of economic pressure, and public resentment against this trickery and manipulation of finance aimed at reducing the living standards to the lowest possible level, will be such that the Commonwealth Government will either have to change its policy or make way for a government which will take some action. 
It is correct. and what I have said will undoubtedly happen unless the Government's policy be changed. 
When presenting the financial statement, the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  said in effect that an additional amount of £000,000 will be required for invalid and old-age pensions in 1940-41. That is a misleading statement. As a matter of fact, the pension of £1 to-day is worth only8s., because there has been a 60per cent. reduction of the purchasing power of our currency. Most of the pensioners do not understand that, but those who do are organizing their fellows and educating them to an appreciation of the facts. Actually, if as the Treasurer has said, pensions expenditure is to be increased, the. pensioners will merely begetting back something which was taken from them. If there was an increase of 60 per cent. over the present pension, it would merely mean a restoration of the  status quo ante.  I am drawing attention to these tilings because we are now in the midst of a te rrible war, and timesof crisis have the effect of accelerating the bringing to a head of such matters. War-time conditions make it impossible to conceal facts as they are concealed or glossed over in peace-time, when the tempo is slower.  1.  consider-' that I am doing, the Government a valuable service by directing its attention to these: things. I am not offering merely destructive criticism-. I hope that the Government will rise to the occasion a-nd use the man-power and the material resources of this country to- thedegree, that, they can be used, for defence purposes. Unemployment, a reduction of tha purchasing power- of the people and the inflation of the currency undermine the morale and resistance of the- nation,, mid: I am doing a good service in directing the attention of the Government to th'ese% matters:.- ' 
The- Treasurer has used certain terms which in&gt; my opinion are misleading. It has been said truly that, most persons  are the  prisoners of phrases and the slaves of shibboleths. If things are said frequently enough, a- considerable- number of people eventually believe them to be true. The Treasurer has stated that we are still living; under a free system, relying on individual initiative and willing cooperation rather than compulsion; but- I claim, that we !nave not a free system of social organization when the means by which people live are in the hands- of a few private monopolists. We cannot be said: to-. have a', free system when workers are forced, to accept a minimum wage based on. the cost of .subsistence. They are not paid- what they earn, but" their remuneration is fixed on the basis of the minimum sum on which they can' live. How can a social system be truly said- to be free, if a few employers have the right to deprive the workers of their means of livelihood, to victimize them, and to reduce them to working for sustenance? Such a system approximates to that in operation in Germany. If the people are merely the creatures- of the Government, and can bo involved in war without consultation oi agreement, they cannot be said to be living under a free system. The Government cannot rely on individual initiative when the individual is. restricted to the extent that he; is to-day. Unemployed persons who are able and willing to work would bo- opposed, by armed forces, if they attempted to take possession of unused land, or the capital resources; required to, improve- their position. The conditions .under, which- we- live to-day 

 Senator 
 Cameron. are such that, if. a man cannot, be employed ait a profit by private: enterprise-, which is so capably represented- by the present Government,, he- must go- without work.- There is noi scope for individual initiative; one must accept the. present coalitions, or put up' with the consequences of objecting  to-  them. If private enterprise could employ, at a profit,, every main  and  woman- who is- unemployed, nobody would be out of work to-morrow.. Therefore,, the Government should step. in;. Private enterprise is- helpless 1n this war.. Individual- initiative is restricted to such an. extent that national1 efficiency and mobility cannot be secured. Individual initiative is obstructed and opposed at every point. The  Government  says that it relies on willing, co-operation, but actually it relies on compulsory cooperation. Practically all work that is done, particularly that which is not adequately paid for, and is. done ' underconditions similar to those under which the coal-miners ave employed,, is the result, not of willing, co-operation, but ofcompulsion. The Government says, in effect,, " Either work under the' conditionslaid down or starve ". 
What does the Treasurer mean when he speaks of borrowing from the banking system? He does not say what he means. Probably he and a- few of his officers alone could give an explanation that would throw light" onthis matter. What is- meant- by " expansion of credit " ? Again, we are left without an answer. In the absence of any explanation, one is entitled to judge in the light of what is happening. Borrow-, ing. from the banking system or expansion of credit are merely euphemistic terms which do not grate on- the ear as- does the word " inflation ". To use' terms that are' obviously misleading is not only to. make confusion worse confounded,, but also to defeat what the Government would claimas being its policy. The insidious reduction of the purchasing power of wages has. been brought about, by inflation,, and anattempt is made to lead- the people to believe that the workers' wages have a greater purchasing power than- they,. in: fact, have. 
A good deal  more  could be- said regaining this financial statement, and-, therefore, -I make no apology for  having drawn  attention to these matters. In all sincerity, I point outto the Government that the industrial unrest, to which the Treasurer has rightly drawn attention, must increase unless the present policy of the Government is changed. Saving been directly associated with the negotiations in Sydney recently regarding the dispute in the coal-mining industry, I have no hesitation in sayingthat at least some members of the Ministry are beginning to realize that what I have said is correct. I trust that the lesson that has been taught by the coal strike willensure that there will be no repetition of incidents which were responsible for the trouble. I hope that theGovernment will try to mobilize the man-power and the material resources of the country to the best advantage of theEmpire. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Dein)  adjourned. 
.- When the bill was last before the committee the consensusof opinion was that the names of the parties with which candidatesare associated should be shown on Senate ballot-papers. The original clause provided for that and I believe that there was quite a lot of merit in it. In view of the urgent issues confronting the country at the present time, I am amazed that on the eve of a generalelection the Government has seen fit to alter a system of election which has been in operation since 1925. 
This measure has notbeenbrought forward on the eve of an election. It has been before this Parliamentfor a considerable time. Neither did it originate during the present crisis. 
Like thehonorable senator, members of the Government, I suppose, become wiser as theygrow older. The Government believes that this measure provides a system of election which represents a greatimprovement on the existing system, particularly as it will make iteasierfor the average electorto cast a valid vote. For that reason it has brought down this measure, believing that it isnevertoo late todoanything which will be ofconsiderablebenefit to the community. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 18 (Printing of House of Representatives ballot-papers). 

 House of Representatives' amendment - 

Omit the clause. 
Motion (by  Senator Foll)  agreed to - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
New clause. 

 House of Representatives' amendment - After clause 21, insert the following new clause :  - " 21a. After section one hundred and eightyone of the principal act the following section is inserted: - 181a. - . (l.) If, inany matter announced or published by any person, or causedby him to be announced or published, on behalf of any association,league, organization or other body ofpersons,it is,without the writtenauthority ofthe candidate (proof whenof shalllie upon that person). - 
) claimed or suggestedthat a candidate in an election isassociated with, or supports the policy or activities of, that association, league, organizationor other body of persons or 
expressly or impliedly advocated or suggested - 
inthe case of an election of Senators for anyState - that a voter should place in the square opposite the name of the candidate on a ballot-paper a number not greater than the number of Senators to be elected; or 
in the case of an election of a member of the House of Representatives - that that candidate is the candidate for whom the first preference vote should be given, that person shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Fifty pounds or imprisonment for three months. (2.) Where any matter, the announcement or publication of which by any person without the written authority of a candidate would be an offence against sub-section (1.) of this section on the part of that person, is announced or published by or on behalf of, or with the support of, any association, league, organization or other body of persons, every person who was an officer thereof at the time of that announcement or publication shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against sub-section (1.) of this section. (3.) For the purposes of this section, where any matter purports expressly or impliedly to be announced or published by or on behalf of, or in the interests or with the support of, any association, league, organization or other body of persons, the matter shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be deemed to be announced or published by or on behalf, or with the support of, the association, league, organisation or other body of persons. (4.) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to or in relation to any announcement or publication made or authorized by any bona fide political party or by any bona fide branch thereof respecting a candidate who, by public announcement, has declared his candidature to be a candidature on behalf of or in the interests of that party.' ". 
Motion (by SenatorFoll) proposed - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
.- In what way will this provision affect the issue of " vote thus " cards usually distributed by various political parties? 
This provision has no bearing on the " vote thus " cards issued by political parties. Sub-section 4 of the proposed new section exempts any announcement or publication made or authorized by any bona fide political party or by any bona fide branch thereof, respecting a candidate who by public announcement has declared his candidature to be a candidature on behalf of or in the interests of that party. This provision is designed to prevent organizations from issuing advertisements or publishing in any way that any candidate at the election is its candidate, unless it first secures the consent of that candidate so to use his name. Honorable senators are aware that at present certain organizations abuse the practice of issuing tickets of this kind. 
. -I assure the Minister that the  Opposition  welcomes this change. It is a great satisfaction to me to know that in future I shall not be subjected to the indignity ofbeing told that the second preferences of the United Australia party, Country party, " non-Communists " or Communists are to be given to me or to  my  colleagues. I assure Government supporters in this chamber that they are welcome to all of the preferences of the Country party, " non-Communists ", and Communists. There are only two parties in any political contest, first, the Australian Labour party and secondly, all who  are  opposed to that party. If the preferences of other parties have been given to us at any time we regret that that has  been the case.  We welcome the new provision because it will spare us such  indignity  in the future. 
 I remind the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that parties nominating candidates will still require to place their preferences somewhere. The honorable senator said that he did not want any United Australia party preferences. I assure him that we have given them to him only because we have been obliged to give them to some one, and not because of any desire to assist his return to this chamber. This provision is designed to curb the activities of a number of unauthorized bodies which do not run candidates for election to the Senate, but nevertheless claim that they represent certain schools of political thought. Under this provision such organizations will  be  prohibited from advertising, as they have done  in  the past, that a certain candidate is their candidate, unless they first secure the authority  of  the individual concerned  to  use  his  name  in  this way. The provision does not  affect  the distribution of preferences as  between  candidates of  genuine  political parties. 
It will he competent for the three political parties to place only the names of their respective candidates on " how to vote " cards, and leave the electors to decide how they should distribute their preferences. Political parties will not be under any compulsion as to how they shall mark their " how to vote " cards ; indeed, no political party will be under any obligation whatever to issue " how to vote " cards at all. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said that he does not want the support of what he calls "nonComs". 
That is a deliberate misstatement; no such decision has been. made. The honorable senator no doubt would like to convey that impression to the Australian public. Although I arn totally opposed to the measure as a whole, I recognize that this provision is not without merit. During past election campaigns the Communist party in New South Wales plastered telephone posts on the eve of polling day with dodgers asking the electors to vote for the Australian Labour party as that party would give effect to the Communist policy. Such propaganda influenced many people to vote against the Australian Labour party. For this reason, I expected Government supporters to endeavour to defeat the provision now under consideration because it will prevent that kind of propaganda, the value of which they fully appreciate. It is obvious that the Communists always try to keep the United Australia party Government in power. Possibly this provision will help to obviate the tactics adopted by Communists in the past with the object of defeating the Australian Labour party. 
I support this proposal. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that those who are not with the Australian Labour party are against it.  Senator Amour,  on his own argument that the Communists are always seeking to defeat the Australian Labour party, will apparently expect support from that quarter. The honorable senator said that Australian Labour party candidates will not be obliged to advise on their " how to vote cards, the giving of later preferences to United Australia party, Communist, or non-Communist party candidates. It is obvious, from the remarks of  Senator Amour,  the Leader of non-Communist Labour senators, that this amendment offers them a way out of their difficulty in connexion with the arrangement of " how to vote " cards. All I wish to say is that I did not win my election on preferences from the Communist party. 
I should like the Minister to inform me whether we are to understand, from the statement made by  Senator Amour,  that his party would not give preferences to candidates representing Labour? If so, does that mean that those preferences will go to the candidates representing the United Australia party or Country party? If. at the next election, the non-Communist Labour party wishes to issue " how to vote " cards advising their supporters to give their first preferences to candidates representing the United Australia party or Country party, will it not need to get permission ? 
No. In passing, I express the satisfaction of my ministerial colleagues, and I have no doubt, our supporters also, at hearing honorable senators opposite representing the rival Labour parties trying to make up their minds as to which of the two really owns the Communists. It is apparent from what has been said this evening that we on this  side  have not that doubtful honour. I do not blame honorable senators opposite for endeavouring to dissociate themselves from the Communists, but I would point out that under this provision no political organization will be compelled to issue "how to vote " cards. It is, however, the practice for political parties to issue these cards for the guidance of their supporters, and usually they show preferences for the full number of candidates offering, in order to avoid, the recording of informal votes. My attention was first directed to this matter recently by a member . of the Opposition, who pointed out that nearly every candidate, at one time or another, was to some extent embarrassed bythepublishedannouncements ofdifferent organizations, such as the temperance bodies or the liquor interests, urging voters to vote for certain candidates who, in their opinion, wouldbe favorable to their interests. On manyoccasions candidates have been placed in a veryunfair (positionbecause of this gratuitous support, and that is one ofthe reasons for the insertion of this provision in the bill. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [8.49]. - I was gladto hear , the Minister say that it is not necessary for preferences to 'be shown on " how to vote " cards.Senator Dein. - It never was 
SenatorFRASER. - At one election in Western Australia, the United Australia party advised electors to give their second preferences to a Communist candidate. 
SenatorFRASER.  - I  saythis because the Minister hasbeen endeavouring to associate honorable senators on this side with Communists, whereas we have  iton  record that, whenever it suits them, United Australia party organizations willask electors to give their second preference votes to Communist candidates instead of Labour candidates. 
 Theturntaken bythe discussion is very interestingto me because for some years I have noted carefully the activities of theCommunists andthe Labour partyin New South Wales. 

 - (Senator James McLachlan) .   -  Order! I remind the honorable senator that there is no reference intheamendmenttoeither the Communist or the Labour party. 
SenatorDEIN. - I am aware of that Mr.Chairman,but as you allowed SenatorFraser and other honorable senators to refer to thesematters you should, in fairness,permit me to reply to them. SenatorFraser . said just now that in Western Australia in oneelection the United Australiaparty advised electors to give theirsecond preferences to a Communist party candidate. I do not know whetherthat is true, but I doknow that for theSenate elections in New South Wales in 1934, the Labour party advised electors to vote, . Lang Labour 1, 2 and3 ; Federal Labour. 4,5 and 6; then to vote for Sharkey,the Communist . candidate, and to give the remaining preferences to United Australia party or Country party candidates. 
The honorable senator mnist not continue along 'those lines. 
In some country districts in New South Wales at the last federal elections, we found attached to posts . and trees placards issued by the Communistparty advising electors to support Labour party candidates. I should add that these placards were issued in what were known as " border-line " electorates such as Hume, . and the apparent purpose was to injure the chances -of Labour party candidates. I have nodoubt that the United Australiapartywas behind the scheme. Therefore, if this amendment will, in future, prevent political organizations fromresorting to such tactics, it has , merit, land I shall support it. 

 Senator KEANE  (Victoria) [8.553.- The need for some provision such as this was clearly demonstratedduring the 1937 elections in the division of Wannon. On one night, about three days prior to -polling, I noticed all through the town of Hamilton which is represented in theState Parliamentby Mr.Slater, a Labour member, Communist placards urging the support of the Labour (candidate.  Mr. Slater  -was with ; me when I interviewed the local police to see if I could discover who posted the notices. As we were talking to the policeman, apla in clothes officercame along and said to me, " You oughtto iknow". Then he mentioned the name of a leading United Australia party resident of Hamilton. 
It  seems to me that this provision goes a little further than has been indicated by the Minister  (Senator Foll).  I should like to know if the words, " any matter announced or published by any person, or caused by him to beannounced or published on behalf of any association, league, organization, or any body of persons " may not be interpreted to include a newspaper. If so, is  it  not likelynewapapers urging the claims of particular candidates may be committing an offence? 
No objection would be taken by any candidate to a newspaper advocating electors to vote for him, so there would be no difficulty whatever about a newspaper obtaining a candidate's consent. All candidates would very gladly consent to support by a newspaper. 
I  am not quite clear about the probable- effect of this clause in. respect of advocacy by newspapers, but I know the value of newspaper support. I have in mind an incident, in the recent byelection for Corio, in Victoria. Three days prior to the polling the Geelong  Advertiser,  which has a large circulation  in  the electorate, published in the centre of its leading article a "how to vote" card. That notice, I am sure, influenced  a  large number of voters. 
No, because the party to which the Minister belongs exercises a good deal of control over our leading newspapers. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 26- 
The schedule to the principal act is amended by omitting FormE and inserting in its stead the following form :  - 
" FORME. 

 Ballot-Paper. 

Commonwealth  of  Australia. 
State of  [here insert name of State] . 
Election of  [here insert number]  Senators. 

 Directions. - Mark your vote on this ballotpaper by placing the numbers  [here insert  1, 2,  and so on,, as the case requires]  in the squares respectively opposite the names of the candidates so as to indicate the order of your preference forthem. 

<graphic href="163332194005234_37_0.jpg"></graphic>


 House of Representatives' amendment - 

Omit proposed now form, insert the following: - 
" FORME. 

 Ballot-Paper. 

COMMONWEALTH of AUSTRALIA. 
State of  [here insert name of State]. 
Election of  [here insert number].  Senators. 

 Directions. - Mark your vote on this ballotpaper by placing the numbers  [here insert1,  2,  and so on; as the case requires]  in the squares immediately to theleft of the names of the respective candidates so as to indicate the order of your preference for them. 

<graphic href="163332194005234_37_1.jpg"></graphic>

Note. - The letter ' A ' or ' B ' or 'C', &amp;c., appearing before the square immediately to the left of a candidate's surname indicates that that candidate and each othercandidate who has the same letter appearing before the square immediately to the left of his surname have been grouped by mutual consent. 
The' fact' that no letter appears before the square immediately to the left of a candidate's surname- indicates that the name of that candidate has not been included in any group'.". 
Motion  (by  Senator Foll.)  proposed -  That' the amendment be agreed  to. 
.-I can only repeat the remarks whichI made on the second reading of the bill, that during the time in which anti-Labour governments have had an overwhelming majority in both branches of the legislature this altered form of ballot-paper was never considered; but now, on the eve of a. general election, the Government proposes to change the vertical form of the ballot-paper to the horizontal form merely for political purposes. When the bill was previously before the chamber I stated that the alteration will not only increase the number of informal votes to a remarkable degree, but will also be a distinct disadvantage to the party to which I belong. That is the reason why it has been introduced. Moreover, it will be the only ballot-paper of its kind in use in any part of the' Commonwealth. 
During the next election campaign honorable senators on this side of the chamber will emphasize the fact that the change has been made by the Government merely to aid it in endeavouring to defeat its political opponents. It is amazing to find that the Government with its tremendous responsibilities should permit Parliament to discuss this comparatively unimportant measure for so long, when more pressing business is awaiting our attention. 
There is no necessity for me to deal with the merits of the proposed altered form of the ballot-paper except to say that, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane)  objects strongly to the proposed change, the party to which he belongs must have secured some advantage under the old system. When it is proposed to alter the form of the ballot-paper in the interests of every one concerned, the honorable senator suggests that we should ad here to the old system. I should have imagined that the honorable senator would have been hesitant to admit that candidates whose names commenced with an early letter in the alphabet gained any advantage, but that is the effect of his com plaint. He realizes' that the members of his party gained a distinct advantage; but the Government, believes that honorable senators should be not merely nien whose names commence with the letter A or B, but those who possess the necessary qualifications to represent the people. The Government believes that pv cry individual or group of individuals should have a.n equal opportunity when the ballot is taken. 
Members of the Labour party took a long time to realize that they could gain an advantage by having candidates whose names commenced with the letter A. Under the new form of ballot-paper every individual candidate or group of candidates will Iia ve. a n equal opportunity, and, therefore, there is no justification for any opposition. T am satisfied that under the proposed system the number of informal votes will decrease and that the method of voting will be simplified. 

 Senator COLLINGS (QueenslandLeader of the Opposition. [9.8]. - The opinions of the members of the Opposition on this subject were expressed very definitely some months ago. Every trade union organization, progress association, municipal or other body uses a vertical ballot-paper, and when the proposed change is made an increased number of informal votes will be recorded.  At a  federal election held, in Queensland some years ago the chief returning officer said that if the method of voting were further complicated the time would come when there would be more informal votes than the number required to elect a candidate. That actually occurred in one State when the number of votes received by the elected candidate was smaller than the number of the informal votes recorded. I do not know whether any party will gain any advantage under the proposed new system ; but it is politically indecent to submit a new form of ballot-paper to electors who are accustomed to  a  totally different ballot-paper on the eve of theelections and in this time of war stress. Under the new system  at  least 50 per cent, of the electors will be confused. 
It is not. As the vertical ballot-paper has been in use for so many years the horizontal form of paper will certainly increase the number of informal votes recorded. 
.  -  I was particularly interested to notice the conservatism displayed' by those honorable senators opposite who favour the retention of the vertical paper merely because it has been in use for some years. Apparently it is not a matter of whether the alteration is fair or unfair. The retention of the old form is advocated merely because it has been in use for years. I have never heard a more striking example of conservatism than the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane).  We have to determine whether the ballot-paper in the new form- gives an advantage to any political party. No member of, .the Opposition has attempted to show .-the way in which it can benefit any brie. Under the present system one party derived some benefit because the names of its candidates appeared at the top of the paper. In.  1934  my name was in a group which was at the top of the ballot-paper, and the majority obtained was  189,000.  WhenI saw the figures I realized that that majority was twice as great as it should have been. I know that by a comparison with the vote for the House of Representatives. The Labour party in New South Wales also knew it, and in order to catch that " fluke " vote, chose four candidates whose names begin with " A " to contest the Senate elections. I do not blame them for doing that; their tactics were quite legitimate, and I can quite understand why honorable senators opposite are now objecting to the alteration. They solved the problem of how to return their representatives to the Senate on a minority vote.  Senator Keane  said that, in his State at any rate, this legislation will result in a condemnation of the Government. Does the honorable senator charge the Government with doing something that is unfair? 
I should like the honorable senator to tell us in what way the Government's action is unfair. If  Senator Keane,  or any of his colleagues, can show that the Government's proposals arc unjust to any particular party, I shall cross the floor and vote with them.  Senator Keane  said definitely to-night, in words which are capable of no other construction, that he is prepared to misrepresent on the hustings the alteration of the ballot-paper. 
A plea was put up on behalf of the informal voter by  Senator Collings,  who said that as the people have now become used to the ballot-paper in its present form, it is a pity to alter it. I point out, however, that in the  1934  Senate elections, nearly500,000 electors in the Commonwealth - or  14  per cent. - voted informally. Of that number,  193,000  were in New South Wales. Yet  Senator Collings  says that we must not interfere with the system that is now in operation. That is absurd. Another new principle introduced in this bill is the ballot for positions. No mention has been made of that, although I do not think that the system has been "used in Australia or in any other part of the world. It, too, is an innovation, but it is fair. I am here to support only what is fair, and in my opinion this proposal is eminently fair. 
 I move - 
That the amendment he amended by inserting in the ballot-paper the name of the party beside the section representing that party. 
This amendment will give to  Senator Dein  an opportunity to vote with honorable senators on this side of the chamber. 
I shall proceed to do that. In preparing this amendment, I considered that behind this bill was a desire on the part of the Government to remove from the elections all vestige of chance and to place before the people of the Commonwealth a system which they could not possibly misunderstand, so that the votes recorded and finally counted could not be regarded as anything but a true reflex of the people's will. Apparently, the Government believes that in  1934,  under the existing system, alphabetical precedence resulted in the return to the Senate of certain candidates in New South Wales against the majority will of the people. In my opinion, with the ballot-paper now proposed, there will be just as much chance of the people not knowing whom they are supporting, as there is with the existing ballot-paper. If the Government desires to remove all element of chance, and so enable the people to vote for the parties which they desire to support, it should accept my amendment, the effect of which will be to place beside the names of the candidates, the names of the parties to which they belong. There would then be no excuse for any voter saying that, he went into a booth to vote for the Labour party and finally voted for the United Australia party, or vice versa. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  pointed out, the ballot-paper now proposed is too confusing. That confusion could be avoided, or at, least minimized, by placing opposite the names of the candidates, the names of the parties which they represent. Then the Government would have no excuse for claiming, as it did after the last Senate elections, that certain New South Wales senators had been returned by a minority vote. If  the Government is game to accept this amendment, I shall believe in its bona fides in bringing forward this legislation ; if it, does not accept the amendment its motives will be suspect. 
-" Australian Labour party- non-Communist ". But it is not a matter ofwhat I would have. This legislation affects all candidates. Honorable senators opposite apparently think that there is a certain amount of chance in the present system, and their aim is to remove that element. I have moved my amendment in order to test the Government's bona fides in this matter. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Armstrong.  No doubt honorable senators opposite, who will have to face the electors at the next appeal to the country, would like to have the names of their parties alongside their own names. At any rate I am confident that the electors would like to see the names of the parties to which honorable senators opposite belong so that they would know where to place their last preferences. The principle embodied in the amendment was previously accepted by this chamber. In fact, the inclusion of party names was suggested by theGovernment and supported by the Opposition, and for that reason the House of Representatives should have accepted the ballot-paper in the form adopted by this chamber. To be consistent, honorable senators should support the amendment moved by  Senator Armstrong.  I can see no argument against it.. In my opinion, it would result in the elimination of a large number of informal votes, because, under the present system, voters do not know the parties to which the various candidates belong. Many people put a first preference vote in two places by voting number one for one particular candidate, and then realizing that he has given his first preference to the wrong man. The result is that the ballot-paper is informal. If the name of the parties to which candidates belonged were shown on the ballot-paper, all doubt would be eliminated, and we would be doing a service to the nation, because people in other parts of the world must view with a certain amount of disgust the huge number of informal votes which are cast at elections in this country. I agree with  Senator Keane  that the alteration of the ballot-paper to the horizontal form now proposed will tend to cause a greater percentage of informal votes. 
The Labour party will not support the amendment moved by  Senator Armstrong.  As we cannot have the ballot-paper which we desire, we very much prefer that the ballot-paper should remain as is now proposed in the bill. 
.- The Government does not propose to accept the amendment moved by  Senator Armstrong.  Many difficulties in connexion with the indication of party affiliations were pointed out by the Electoral Department, and by members of the House of Representatives, when the bill was under discussion in that chamber. It was consi dered undesirable to throw on the Chief Electoral Officer the onus of deciding the titles to be given to certain groups when two or more chose similar or identical party names. A party such as that led by  Senator Amour,  would have an opportunity to indicate that it is the " Australian Labour party - non-Communist ", whereas there is no definite proof that it is non-Communist. Apparently that is the reason why  Senator Amour  is so anxious to include that provision in the bill. At any rate, it is an additional reason why the amendment cannot be accepted. 
.- Until the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  rose, I had intended to ask Sena tor Armstrong how he would get over the difficulty that would . be raised if two groups of candidates desired to be designated by the same party name. The Chief Electoral Officer could hardly be expected to decide a point of that kind. Originally I was inclined to agree with the view advanced by  Senator Armstrong,  but, after hearing the Minister's explanation, I cannot support the honorable senator. 
 Senator Dein  said that, if it could be shown that the old ballot-paper gave no advantage to any of the candidates, he would support its retention. The justification for the alteration, we are told, is that the ballot-paper used at the last elections gave an advantage to certain groups of candidates because their surnames began with "A". To overcome that difficulty, it is proposed not only to introduce a horizontal instead of a perpendicular arrangement of the names of the candidates, butalso by direction of this national Parliament, to conduct a lottery prior to the elections. The candidates themselves are to draw lots to decidetheir positions on the ballot-papers. 
The committee is discussing an amendment to clause 26. and the honorable member may not now discussclause 18. 
 I am surprised that a challenge has been issued by  Senator Dein  and other supporters of the Government. Although honorable senators opposite say that they wish to see fair play, they are not prepared to accept an amendment that would have that effect. The Minister hassuggested that the electors would beunable to distinguish between the parties that might be named on the ballot-papers. The fact is that my party has been recognized in the House of Representativesby the Prime Minister, and it has also been recognized in this chamber and in New South Wales. There is not much in the abjection taken by  Senator Abbott  that it would be unfair to place on the Chief Electoral Officer the onus of distinguishing between party designations. It is conceivable that two United Australia party groups or two Country party groups might submit candidates,Inthat case we should allow the electors to choose between them. 
In such a case the electors should make their choice. If honorable senators opposite wish to remove all misunderstandings, they should accept my amendment. It is desirable togiveall possible informationto the voter inorder to prevent informal voting, and enable him to record his vote in favour of the candidates whomhe hopes to seeelected. 
.I do not think that  the  proposed amendment would to any degree reduce the number of informal votes. A large percentage of votes are purposely made informal by the electors. Many people resent being compelled to 'exercise the franchise. Knowing that a penalty is provided for failure to vote, they deliberately make their ballot-papers informal. Oneorganization in Australia advises theelectors to do this. I have come acrossthe agents of that movement on more than one occasion, and Imet thematthe last elections. As to the wisdomofplacing a party designation opposite the squares, would it not be logical to vote merely for parties, dispensing with the names of the candidates? That wouldbe  the  logical sequenceof the trend of thought that prompted the moving of the amendment. I do not believe that the committee will agree to such a course. 
SenatorCUNNINGHAM. - On more than one occasion the people have been asked to amend the Constitution. Many years ago they were invited to do this in order that a poll mightbe taken at an earlier or later date than the date at first fixed. I rose to point out that it is useless to contend that, as the result of arrangingthe names of candidates in a certain order, informal voting would be caused, because, as I have already said, manyinformal votes are cast intentionally. 
 I stated earlier that if any member of the Opposition could show that an unfair advantage could begained by any party underthe proposednew form, I would not support it. Whatever the advantageor disadvantage of the proposal of the Government each party would share it. In reply to  Senator Cunningham  I point out that the number ofinformalvotes deliberately cast is very small. At the 1934 elections  193,000 informal votes were cast in New South Wales. Approximately 16,000 electors made no attempt to mark their ballotpapers at all. About 29,000 Senate electors recorded their first, second and third preferences and then stopped. About 19,000 wrote "1, 2, 3" opposite one group and " 1, 2, 3 " opposite another group; their votes were not deliberately made informal. About 10,000 electors duplicated one of the figures between 1 and 7, and many more duplicated one of the higher numerals. About 10,000 did not record a No. 1 vote at all. Approximately 50,000 electors left blank the thirteenth square, which was opposite the name of the Communist candidate, Sharkey. For that reason those ballot-papers were declared informal. Under this measure, however, ballot-papers marked in that way will be admitted as formal. In addition, 5,000 electors invalidated their ballot-papers by using crosses instead of figures. This accounts for at least 160,000 informal votes which, 1 considered, were not deliberately made informal. 
I feel sure that if I were to examine the ballot-papers used in the last election for the Senate in Western Australia, I should find written on some of them uncomplimentary remarks about the honorable senator who has just interjected. I should have no doubt that such ballot-papers were deliberately made informal. If the big majority of Senate informal ballotpapers were not accidental, how can we account for the fact that whilst about 30,000 ballot-papers were recorded as informal in the election for the House of Representatives, 193,000 ballot-papers were recorded as informal in the election for the Senate. This position arises from the fact that large numbers of electors enter the polling booth failing to realize that senators have to be elected. Consequently, they do not know how to vote for the Senate. If by omitting the names of the parties, I felt that an advantage was to be gained by any one group, I should support the amendment. However, that is not the case. Therefore, I shall vote against the amendment. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to he inserted  (Senator Armstrong's amendment)  be inserted. 
 When progress was reported earlier to-day I was asking the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  whether a person who happened to hold more than £250 worth of these treasury bonds would be liable to a penalty if he attempted to dispose of the extra bonds. 
 Hewould be obliged to dispose of bonds which ho held in excess of £250. It would be possible for an executor, of course, to dispose of such bonds before paying the legacy. 
Inthat case a trustee would ho only holding the bonds in trust. He would not be the owner or purchaser of such bonds, and, therefore, he would not contravene the law. 
 Many employers, including some banking institutions, are very public-spiritedly making advances free of interest to their employees in order to enable them to purchase, in some cases, £50 worth of these war savings certificates and the employers hold the bonds until they are paid for by the employees. If a bank acting in quite good faith made available to, say, 100 of its employees sufficient money for each man to purchase £50 worth of bonds and held the bonds as security, would not that institution be contravening the law? 
 Banks and other employers could quite properly make advances for the purpose mentioned and could hold the bonds as security. They would not be the owners of the bonds, but would be in the same position as an executor of an estate. 
New clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Title verbally amended and, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment and an amendment in the title. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Yesterday I directed a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Air regarding certain criticisms appearing in thepublic press in relation to the Empire air training scheme. In view of statements published to-day in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  and as we are living in critical times, will the Minister ask the Minister for Air to reply to the grave charges of bungling and inefficiency levelled against his department? Will he plead with the Minister for Air to allay the anxiety felt throughout the community J 
The question submitted yesterday by  Senator Brown  was brought under the notice of the Minister for Air. A similar question was addressed to the Minister in the House of 
Representatives, where he replied to the press statements most emphatically and effectively. His full answer is published inthe press this morning. 
I have no desire to withhold , any information from the Senate. The question asked yesterday by the honorable senator was forwarded to my colleague, the Minister for Air, and, in order to meet the wishes of the honorable senator, I shall secure a copy of the statement made by the Minister in the House of Representatives, and see that it is read in this chamber. 
SenatorFRASER- Does the Minister for Air intend to make a statement in reply to the various criticisms in the press reflecting on the administration of his department ? 
It is not possible, at the present time, forthe Minister for Air to read every newspaper and every criticism that is levelled against his department; but yesterday he gave a full and emphatic answer to a question asked in the House of Representatives. As I hare already told the Senate, in reply to a question  by  Senator Brown,  I shall obtain a statement on the lines of that made by the Minister yesterday. If honorable senators will indicate the particular points of criticism to which they desire a reply to be given, I shall endeavour to obtain an answer to them. All Ministers are being subjected to a barrage of criticism, and we desire to know which press comments honorable senators have narticularly in mind. Many criticisms have been heard regarding the Empire air training scheme, but it is not possible for the department to make knownsome of the things being done in regard to the scheme. The Minister has no wish to hide anything from the Senate. He de sires to take the people and the Parliament into his confidence, as far as is possible, in these critical times. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development give answers to the serious charges of ineptitude and inefficiency published in the Sydney press to-day? These refer not only to the air training scheme, but also to the manufacture of arms and munitions. Reference has also been made to the government annexes to private factories. I think that a general statement would be welcomed by the members of the Senate and by the people of Australia as a whole. I suggest to the Minister that a reply be made to these charges, which are indeed serious, and have been published in a responsible newspaper that has a large circulation. 
In view of the criticism which has been offered, and because of the urgent importance of speeding up Australia's war effort, will the Leader of the Senate urge upon the Prime Minister the necessity for relieving those Ministers who are directly connected with war operations from all routine departmental matters,' so that they may be able to concentrate on the big job that lies ahead? 
The point raised will be brought under the notice of the Prime Minister. 
In view of the  fact that the former Prime Minister set up a national council, representative of the Commonwealth and the States, for the  purpose of co-ordinating activities with regard to the defence of Australia, will the Leader of the Senate state whether that body has ceased to function? If not, when did it hold its last meeting? 
The Prime Minister has already stated that the council does not now function, but he has indicated that he proposes to call the Premiers of the States together in order that they may consult with Commonwealth Ministers on matters of interest from time to time. The Loan Council will meet in Canberra on Monday, when the Premiers of all the States will be present. 
Can the Minister for the Interior state what steps are being taken by his department to police enemy aliens in Australia? Is that work being done by his officers or by officers of the State police departments? 
That matter does not come under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior, but is dealt with by the Investigation Branch of the Attorney-General's Department. I can assure honorable senators that the matter is being carefully and closely watched by both the Commonwealth department and the State police departments. 
"Will the Assistant Minister for Commerce state whetherthe agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the British Government with regard to the sale of wool will be laid on the table of the Senate before the present sittings are concluded? 
Every honorable senator has been advised already that the whole of the details in connexion with the agreement have not yet been completed. I think that it is most unlikely that the details will be finalized in time to enable the agreement to be laid on the table of the Senate before the conclusion of the present sittings, but, as soon as possible, its contents will be made available to the Senate and to the public generally. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The final report on the iron orereserves atYampi Sound and other iron ore reserves in Western Australiahas not yet been submitted by  Dr. Woolnough,  but a report summarizing the general position in respect of iron ore  in Australia was recently prepared by  Dr. Woolnoughand  is at present being considered by the Government. The question ofmaking this report available to Parliament will be considered, at a later date. 
Approximately £68,000. it. Approximately 51 men. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Western Australian timber interests refuse to tender  for  the supply of jarrah piles  for  Commonwealth works? 
Is it a fact that Western Australian timber merchants and sawmillers show a reluctance to tender for jarrah planking and structural timber for Commonwealth requirements ? 
If sowillthe Minister supply the reasons? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the price now paid in America to the Commonwealth Bank for gold per fine ounce? 
What is the price now paid to mining companies and others by the Commonwealth Bank for gold per fine ounce? 
What is the price now paid by the Commonwealth Bank for a sovereign? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
$34,9125. 
£10 13s. 3d. 
£2 9s. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate when he proposes to furnish honorable senators with a copy of  Dr. Woolnough's  report on the Yampi iron ore deposits? 
The final report on the iron ore reserves at Yampi Sound and other iron ore reserves in Western Australia has not yet been submitted by  Dr. Woolnough,  but a report summarizing the general position in respect of iron ore in Australia was recently prepared by  Dr. Woolnough  and is at present being considered by the Government. The question of making this report available to Parliament will be considered at a later date. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it in the interest of the nation for the Government to refuse to tell the Senate how much money or credit was allotted to the private banks in the lost government loan? 
SenatorMcBRIDE.- The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
As I advised on the 14th May, in reply to a question asked by the honorable senator, no amounts were allotted for subscription by the private banks, which made voluntary contributions to the loan. It is not the practice to publish the amount subscribed by any institution or person without the consent of the subscriber. Without the consent of the institutions concerned, I am not in a position to disclose the information the honorable senator desires. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
In view of the policy of the Government in relation to preference to ex-service men, why has  Mr. W.  J. Williams, Superintendent of the Sydney Markets, been appointed Supervisor of Food Transport for the duration of the war, at a salary of £796 ? 
Is it a fact that, in contrast to the above appointment. Lieutenant-CommanderF. F. Anderson, V.D., R.A.N.R., has been recalled, under the man-power provisions, from service with the Government and sent to his civil occupation of secretary of the Metropolitan Markets. Perth? 
Is it a fact that Lieutenant-Commander Anderson saw service in the last war and has been secretary of the Metropolitan Markets in Perth for a period of twelve years? 
If the replies to. questionsNos. 1 and 2 arc in the affirmative, why did not the Government take advantage of Lieutenant-Commander Anderson's special qualifications for sucha position, instead of making an appointment outside the Service, contrary to the policy of the Government? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has stated that a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
Having perused this measure I agree with the statement made by the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride),  in moving the second reading, that its object is to remove certain anomalies. Perhaps I may be permitted to inform the Minister in charge of these necessary taxation measures, which are being presented to us so frequently, that the Government appears to be putting the cart before the horse. I believe that the taxation proposals of the Government should be fully debated and carried to finality in both chambers before the taxation measures are introduced. Apparently the new taxation principles are regarded as having been adopted when they have been agreed to by the House of Representatives. The general debate on the Government's financial proposals should be concluded in both Houses before the taxation measures to implement that policy are submitted. I know that what I am advocating may present certain difficulties, but it appears to me that the business is not being brought before us in logical sequence. This measure removes certain anomalies with respect to perpetual leases, and withdraws in partcertain privileges now enjoyed by mutual and partly mutual life assurance associations and friendly societies. Those societies which are conducting solely a mutual life assurance business are to remain exempt, which is only right, but those who control other activities and own large buildings, the whole or portions of which are let for commercial purposes, should not be exempt in respect of that portion of their activity which is of a competitive commercial character. Many of these associations are in business as landlords, and are therefore not entitled to the exemptions which they have hitherto enjoyed. I thought that perhaps this measure would operate to the detriment of certain organizationswhich are not carried on for profit, and, therefore, should be exempt, but I notice with pleasure that the Treasurer gave a definite assurance that such organizations as trades halls and returned soldiers' associations will notbe penalized in any way. I understand that in consequence of a decision of the High Court difficulty arose in the assessment of the value of the unexpired portion of a perpetual lease. An amendment in this billwill overcome that obstacle. The Opposition does not intend to impede the passage of the bill. 
. -in  reply  - I appreciate very much the helpful attitude that is being adopted by the Opposition in connexion with the Government's taxation proposals. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said that the discussion on the financial proposals should be arranged in a more orderly manner. As honorable senators are aware, this measure does not affect the present year's tax, but will operate from the 30th June next. This policy is being adopted in order to allow taxpayers to understand their tax responsibilities for the coming year, and to enable them to make proper provision to meet the increased burden. It, also, will facilitate the collection of the tax by the department. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My  remarks on the Land Tax Assessment Bill apply also to this measure. For the benefit of honorable senators opposite  I  stress the fact that in both the Senate and the House of Representatives the Opposition has adhered faithfully to its promise that it will not cavil at the  Government's  war expenditure. Although we have criticized the incidence of the Government's taxation proposals and have debated the broad principle  of  direct taxation as against indirect taxation, in no case have we attempted  to  obstruct the Government in its desire  to  secure adequate revenue for the purpose of carrying on its defence activities.  I  hope thatit will he recorded in  our  favour in the book of time that we have consistently kept our promise. This measure will accomplish some  ofthe  things which, I contend, should have been accomplished long ago. It adheres  to  the principle of taxation of profits. Hitherto, many companies have very cleverly managed to escape paying  full  tax. As I have said previously, some  of  them pay high salaries and retaining fees to taxation experts, whose job, according to themselves, is to see that the company which employs them does not pay tax which it is not obliged to pay. My contention is that the principal job of these experts is to help companies which employ them to escape the paymentof tax which the companies are legally obliged to pay. Under this measure suchpractices would be greatlycurtailed. 
.- I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  I urge the Government to take the Senate into its confidence with respect to additional taxation proposals which it now has in mind, and may introduce during the present session. Before Parliament assembled on the 17th A.ApriltheTreasurer  (Mr. Spender)  promised that the Government would review the gold tax imposed last December, but he has not since given any intimation that he intends to honour that promise. I now ask the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  if he can enlighten us on this matter. Has the Government taken into consideration the fact that during the year ended the 30th November last 52 gold-mining companies distributed no less than £3,500,000 in dividends? The point I emphasizeis that, asthe gold tax is imposed on a production basis, it does not affect these profits. Another important point is that these profits were made during a period when the price of gold was less than £9 per oz., whereas the price to-day is considerably higher. The only fair method of taxing gold is on the basis of profits. Can the Assistant Minister make any pronouncement at this juncture as to whether or not the Government intends to alter the basis of the gold tax? We know that when it imposed this tax the Government followed the example of the Government of South Africa. However, about three months ago the latter Government, jettisoned the tax on a production basis and has since placed it on an entirely different basis. I understand that when the Treasurer promised that the basis of the gold tax would be reviewed he indicated that the Government again intended to follow the example of the Government of South Africa. Can the Assistant Minister give the Senate any information on this matter ? 
 in reply  - The Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  has already announced that the Government has under consideration the incidence of the gold tax, and it might very well be that, amending legislation of an amelioratory character will be introduced. The matter willcertainlyreceive consideration in connexion with the Government's budget proposalsforthe next financial year. At the moment, I am not in possession of any information other than that the Government is reviewing the tax. However, I cannot give to the honorable senator any encouragementin his belief that the Government intends to follow the lead which, he says, has been given by the Government of South Africa. Eventually we shall bring down proposals which, I hope, will meet with the approval of the honorable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Exemptions). 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [11.39]. - As the final alinement of nations in the war is not yet apparent, it would, perhaps, be wise in this clause to cover persons who might be called upon later in the conflict to serve against a country other than Germany. 
This clause refers to the "war between  His  Majesty the King and Germany", because at the present time Germany is our sole enemy. I cannot imagine conditions arising under which we might be at peace with Germany and, at the same time, at war with any other country which is either at present neutral or may later in this conflict become an ally of Germany. However, I appreciate the point raised by the honorable senator, because if the contingency he hasinmind did arise this provision would be somewhat limited. I believe that if we can defeat Germany we shall have no difficulty in bringing about peace. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 13 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I do not intend to enlarge on what I said yesterday, but, in my opinion, this clause could be negatived, because there is no necessity for extra taxation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Schedules agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third  time. 
I wish to direct attention to what I regard as an unsatisfactory reply to aquestion which I asked on a subject of national importance. The question read as follows: - 
Is it in the interests of the nation for the Government to refuse to tell the Senate how much money or creditwas allotted to the private banks in thelast government loan ? 
We know perfectly well that money subscribed by the Commonwealth Bank to the loan need not bear interest. Even though the Commonwealth Bank werere charge the same interest as the private banks, the interest would go back to the nation in the form of bank profits. I repeat that, in the interests of the nation, honorable senators should know how much of this loan has been subscribed by the private banks at 3 per cent., plus the amount handled by them for other subscribers, on which the banks draw a commission of 5s. per cent. When it suits the Government, the amounts subscribed by big corporations - insurance companies, shipping companies, and others - are published in the newspapers, and those subscriptions are made through the banks. There is no reason whatever why information in regard to the amount of stock actually taken up by the banks should not be similarly disclosed. Nothing should be withheld from the Senate unless this chamber is merely to be a rubber stamp for ratifying legislation passed in the House of Representatives. In the national interest my question should be answered, and I protest against the manner in which my representations have been ignored. 
Some weeks ago I asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army for certain information with regard to the proposed abandonment by the Defence Department of certain land and property in Victoria. 
Not merely Torquay; other lands are involved. Is that information yet available? 
SenatorFoll. - I have already asked for it, and I shall do so again. 
I should also like some information in regard to the national register, compilation of which was undertaken some time ago. Have all the cards been tabulated, and, if so, what use is being made of the data? There is a great demand for artisans in muni-, tions industries and in the manufacture of other essential war requirements; yet. employees in munitions establishments are enlisting for serviceabroad. Are these young men being allowed to enlist without due regard to Australia's need to retain their services in this country? These artisans should not be permitted to enlist until a- thorough  investigationhas been made of their usefulness in essential industries. I was under the impression that when the national register was completed all the information obtained would be collated for the purpose of organizing our man-power resources. Apparently that is not being done. 
. -I should like to make an explanation of two questions which I asked in this chamber, and to obtain a little more information with regard to them. In regard to one of them, I propose to exposethe class of medical officer employed in the Commonwealth medical service which, no doubt, will be responsible for examining men who enlist for  service  at home or abroad. The case concerns a man who had been for some month's inhospital undergoing  a  serious  Operation  . He was under the care of  Dr. Webster,  of Campbell Town, Tasmania. When the patient was discharged from hospital he was totally incapacitated., and he applied for an invalid pension. But the certificate which his doctor furnishedwas worded in such a manner that he could not even get a hearing of his application. When preparing the case on his behalf, I made inquiries and found that the residents of the district inwhich he lived had raised £70 by means of public subscription to assist him. He was highly spoken of by every  body,  including police officers. Yet, when he asked his doctor for a certificate, he was advised to' go to the Launceston General Hospital. The certificate eventually given to him was to the effect that his complaint was only temporary, and that in a week or so he would be able to do light work. When I made representations on behalf of this man I received the following reply from the Deputy Commissioner of Pensions in Tasmania: - 
With reference to your personal representations regarding the above-named claimant for an invalid pension, I have to inform you that further medical evidence has been obtained in addition to that of the Commonwealth medical referee at Campbell Town and this shows that claimant's condition is not likely to be permanent. The claim, therefore, has been rejected, but if in, say, three months, claimant's condition docs not appear to be improving, he could reapply. In the meantime his case is being brought underthe notice of: the Social Services Department. 
The doctor to whom I have referredis a Commonwealth medical referee. When I communicated with the Deputy Commissioner of Pensions and asked where he obtained the additional evidence, I was told that the case had been referred to the Commonwealth medical referee in  Launceston.  I asked what new information had been obtained andthe reply was that a certificate had been forwarded from  Dr. Webster  at Campbell Town. Knowing that the man was a complete invalid, and would not get better, I advised him to seek further medical advice. This man was too ill to go alone to Launceston, sohis brother took him, in order to get the opinion of another doctor who, besides being a Commonwealth medical officer, is recognized as an outstanding physician in Launceston. This is thecertificate which he issued -  29th.April, 1940. 
This is to certify that George Albert Brain, of Campbell Town, consulted me on the 23rd April, 1940. Having considered all the features of the case, with regard to his antecedent history and his present physical condbtion, I have come to the following conclusions: - He will, for an indefinite period, be totally incapacitated from following any occupation. His malady appears to be of an incurable nature and in consequence I regard his earning capacity . for the future as negligible. 
In substantiation of that medical opinion, I have to add that before I was able to communicate with the Deputy Commissioner requesting him to re-open this case for the purpose of hearing correct evidence, the unfortunate man died. The Campbell Town doctor who, I presume,, is entrusted with the responsibility of examining recruits for the Australian military forces, appeared to be completely devoid of any humane feeling: If in civil life we evidenced the same measure of incompetence as this doctor appears to have displayed, thus, perhaps, hastening the death of this poor unfortunate man, weshould probably be charged with manslaughter. I hope that the Governmentwill make a note of this doctor's name; and take special care not to employ him as a medical officer connected with theArmy. 
-Well, Brain died, andI contend that any one with half  an eye could have seen that he was dying. That is supported by the certificate I have produced from the other doctor. 
On the 23rd April I asked the Assistant Minister for Commerce a number of questions relating to the apple and pear acquisition scheme. One question wasas follows :  - 
Arethe market representatives for the fruitgrowers Federation of New South Wales and theTasmanian marketing officer allowed access to the sub-committee ? If not, why not? 
The answer to that question was in the affirmative, the obvious intention being to convey the impression that the officers concerned always had access to the subcommittee, when, as a matter of fact, the Tasmanian officer did not. His services were not co-opted until after I had submitted the question and before a reply was given to me. I wish to make that point quite clear. 
It is a domestic matter of some importance. If we are to get the best results from all concerned in the present crisis, proper measures should be taken to prevent the existence of anomalies. Another question which I asked on that occasion was - 
Is it a fact that the New South Wales agents are continuing to collect1d. per case for what is termed "receiving and delivering" fee on all interstate fruit? 
I am informed that there has been a charge of1d. a case on all fruit exported and that agents are rebating1/2d.acase to the board. 
SenatorFoll. - The honorable senator has that question on the notice-paper, and the acting Minister for Commerce has undertaken to supply the information. 
SenatorAYLETT-  Well I shall await the Minister's answer with interest. Another question which I asked was - 
Is it a fact that certain agents selected as distributors in New South Wales under the apple and pear acquisition scheme, sell the whole of their supplies to merchant or subsidiary companies who occupy the premises of the licensedagent? 
The answer to that question was as  follows: - 
Neither the Apple and Pear Board nor the New South Wales State committee has any  knowledge of such a position. 
I am satisfied that if the Minister for Commerce will take the trouble to order an investigation he will discover that some Sydney agents are distributing the whole of their fruit to subsidiary companies or shops, in which they are interested. I ask the Minister to have a special investigation made. 
I wish to offer some comments with regard to the administration of invalid pensions, raised by  Senator Aylett.  Some time ago I also mentioned a most unfortunate case, for which there is no provision under the pensions law, and I remind  Senator Aylett  that officers entrusted with the administration of that act are bound by it. 
Yes; when called upon to examine claimants it is their duty to give an opinion concerning the degree of incapacity. 
I am not at  all interested in any attempt to heap personal abuse upon anybody. If  Senator Aylett  will be patient he may be able to see my point, which is that a doctor, or as the honorable senator evidentlywould prefer, a " quack ", is boundbythelaw, and whenheexaminesapatienthe must state his honest opinion in the certificate. I have the greatest sympathy for the case mentioned by the honorable senator, but I have no sympathy whatever with any attempt to bring a charge in the Senate against a man who is not in a position to defend himself. On the face of it, the case mentioned by the honorable senator is well worthy of consideration. So was the one which I mentioned some time ago ; but I repeat that medical officers, like other officials, arebound by the law and in the consideration of this matter there is not the slightest necessity to hurl abuse at anybody. In the case of soldiers' pensions, when cases of hardship were brought to our notice years after the war, the act was widened, and we made provision for all "burnt-out" men. Experience in the working of the law relating to invalid pensions shows that something should be doneto make the act more liberal. Many cases of hardship are brought to the notice of honorable senators from time to time. I have no doubt whatever that the officers of the department have every sympathy with them, and if it were in their power they would unhesitatingly recommend the granting of pensions ; but as I have stated, they are bound by the law. The case which I brought under the notice of the Senate some time ago was that of a most unfortunate young man of very little education and, therefore, unfit for any occupation other than farming, to which he had been accustomed, having been brought up in a farming district. In the course of his work he had an accident with a plough and lost one of his legs close to the thigh. There is no possibility whatever of that young man carrying on the work to which he has been accustomed and no prospect of other employment.  His  case is analogous to that mentioned by  Senator Aylett. His  parents arepoorandinthecourseoftimemust die. As so often happens in such accidents, there was a great deal of local sympathy for the lad and a fund was raised to assist him. In time that will be exhausted, and whenhis parents die he will become a charge on those who are good enough to support him. The act makes no provision for his case and others of a similar nature. It should be so amended as to vest in the Minister discretionary power to consider the merits of particular cases and, where thought, desirable, grant relief. 
. -Ishouldnothavespokentothismotion but for the fact that the Government has decided to adjourn the Senate until Wednesday next. I was quite prepared to remain silent until the Minister for Air  (Mr. Fairbairn),  through  Senator Foll,  who represents him in this chamber, furnished some explanation of the charges that have been made in a section of the Sydney press concerning the delay in connexion with the Empire air scheme, I do not wish, at this juncture, to go into the details of those charges; but I do say, in fairness to honorable senators on this side, that in asking to be supplied with fuller information about the Government's activities in such matters, we have no desire to embarrass the Ministry in any way. I hope thatourattitude will not be misunder stood. I assure the Government, if it needs any such assurance, which I doubt, that members on this side are fully aware of the gravity of the situation of Great Britain and of France, our ally. We are most anxious that everything possible should be done to safeguard Australia, and to assist the British Commonwealth of Nations in this struggle against the evils of totalitarianism. It ill becomes any party or any member of a political party to charge honorable senators on this side with captious criticism, whenever we submit to Ministers questions that should receive the attention of the Government and to which proper answers should be given. I shall not go into the details of the newspaper article to which I have alluded because I believe that the Minister for Air will have an answer ready by Wednesday next when the Senate meets again. I think it is only right that in relation to matters of such grave importance as the present crisis in Europe, statements should be made by Ministers in the Senate concurrently with statements delivered in the House of Representatives. Hitherto, we have listened to ministerial statements which have already appeared in the public press relating to events that have happened on the other side of the world. With regard to this particular matter there has not been, so far as I am aware, a full and complete answer to the very grave charges that are being made by responsible organs of the press of Australia. 
Recently I and other Queensland senators have been approached by men who desire to join the Royal Australian Air Force, but are debarred because they have failed to pass certain examinations. A. man may prove a good pilot or a highly capable mechanic without having passed examinations. In my youth, I was a pattern maker in the engineering trade. Some of the most capable mechanics I have met in Australia, France and Canada have not passed very high examinations. Bert Hinkler, one of the greatest pilots Australia has produced, had had comparatively little education. A mate of mine, who was killed in the last war, left school as a " half-timer ". He becameapattern maker and was recognized in his shop as a man of outstanding ability at his trade. A statement was recently published in the 
Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  to the effect that hundreds of good mechanics, who had offered themselves at the Air Force recruiting depots, had been turned away, because the entrance examination is too difficult. Can any honorable senator imagine Hitler refusing to enlist men for military service because they had not attained a certain educational standard? The  Baily Telegraph  further pointed out that men who had been good bench hands and foremen had been rejected because they had failed in oral tests. That statement may be a slight exaggeration, but I hope  that  the Minister for Air will reply to the criticism to which I have directed attention. It was further stated that members of the "Economic Advisory Panel are connected with the principal aircraft manufacturing company in Australia. Is that true? .No matter how loyal men may be to their country, they are always affected by their private interests. 
An attack on Communists has been made by the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  and the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Thorby).  It is all very well for members to turn their attention to Communists, and to use the censorship against certain alleged Communist newspapers. I hold no brief for the Communists, but the censors have been particularly busy in eliminating from newspapers such as  Common Cause  matters that have nothing whatever to do with the war. 
I referred a few weeks ago, to certain articles that had been censored. They had nothing to do with the war, but  Common Cause  was not allowed to publish them. A number of other articles eliminated from that journal had appeared in the daily capitalist press. The censor has permitted certain accusations against Communists to appear in the public press. If the charges be true, the persons referred to are acting contrary to the best interests of the nation, but the censor has prevented the publication of articles of no great importance, merely because they were written for a  Communist  news- paper. 
The Minister who interjects has a mean mind. I am not apologizing for the Communists. I say, in all sincerity, that in the highest ranks of society, in hoth Australia, and Great Britain, there are friends cf Germany; yet the attention of the people is being directed to a relatively unimportant section, rather than to people who, although high, in the social scale, are rendering the greatest disservice to their country. 
The honorable senator cannot excuse himself in that way. 
Men who have been discharged from the Australia Imperial Force, because of minor physical disabilities which do not affect their capacity for useful service to the community, have come to me in search of employment. I contend that a man who is prepared to sacrifice his life for his country, and has been discharged from the Army is entitled to employment. The Labour party would see that every nian in Australia was placed on the payroll, and, in return for his pay, he would be required to do useful work. We are now up against the gravest crisis that has ever confronted Australia and the British Commonwealth of "Nations. We hope against hope that, in the struggle that is proceeding overseas, the British and French forces may be able to stem the tremendous onslaught by the highly organized armies under the direct control of the German dictator. Yet I fear that insufficient effort is being made to safeguard Australia. When men plead with me to find jobs for them, there must be something damnably wrong. We should be able to find work for men who have been prepared to offer their lives in the defence of their country. Yet petty-minded honorable senators opposite talk about Communists! I hope that the Government will take action to see that employment is found for men whose minor physical defects preclude them from serving with the Australian Imperial Force. 
If, as I understand, the Air Board is examining various sites in connexion with an expansion of the Empire air scheme in Western Australia, I should like the Air Board to consider the desirability  of establishing an air training centre or base in the northern portion of that State. 1 During the last two or three weeks a certain amount of anxiety has been experienced by the residents in Broome, Derby and other parts of the north-west, in consequence of the increased tension caused by the occupation of Holland by Germany, and the fact that the Netherlands East Indies may become a pawn in the international game. The proximity of that territory - which is only across the Timor Sea - to the north-western portion of Australia is causing great anxiety. In these circumstances it would be an advantage if any expansion of the air training took a northern trend. Ti", owing to local difficulties, that is impracticable, perhaps a series of demonstration flights could be carried out over the north-west coast of Western Australia, as such flights would assist to relieve the anxiety of those men and women who have established themselves in that far distant part of the Commonwealth, which has been termed the Achilles heel of Australia. 
I now direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Army to the subject of long-service leave due to certain members of the Australian Staff Corps, who are now abroad with the Australian Imperial Force. Many are married men with families and have a certain amount of accrued long-service leave; but having enlisted are unable to enjoy the leave due to them. I have already suggested to the Minister that the procedure followed during the last war should be adopted in this instance, and that members of the Staff Corps to whom long-service leave is due should have it made up to them by way of a cash payment. I urge the Minister representing the Minister for the Army to make strong representations on the subject, and I trust that finality will soon be reached. 
I continue to receive appeals from those conducting small gold mines, many under great difficulties, concerning the difficulties they are experiencing in paying their way due to the imposition of the gold tax. The most recent complaint is from those controlling a mine producing 600 oz. of gold monthly, but operating at a loss. Notwithstanding that fact, the tax has to be paid on the monthly production of fine gold. If some relief be not afforded, the mine will have to close down, men will be thrown out of work, and a quantity of gold will have to remain in  the earth. As no one wishes these things to happen, I urge tha Treasurer to take immediate steps to have the tax amended. It has been rumoured that the gold tax is to be amended; if so, the bill should be brought before Parliament at the earliest possible moment to afford some relief to those controlling low-grade mines which- are making a very valuable contribution towards the wealth of this country, and, incidentally employing many fine men. That is the position not only in Western. Australia but also in other States. Relief must be afforded if the production of this precious metal is to be maintained. 
While our minds are concentrated on the depredations in Flanders and Northern Prance we must not lose sight of the fact that we. have in Australia a menace which is growing daily - I refer to the depredation caused by rabbits. It is some time- since I have seen any pronouncement by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research as to the work which that organization is doing to cope with this grave menace, which is responsible : for the loss of millions of pounds annually. In view of the failure of the experiments conducted at Wardang Island in South Australia, will the Minister inform me of what is now being clone, and whether it is possible to discover a virus for the destruction of this pest. 
I direct the attention of the Government to a  paragraph which appeared in the  Sunday Telegraph  of the 19th May, under the heading of " Threat to radio amateurs " in which it was stated that charges of treason, for which 'the penalty is death, could be laid against every amateur radio operator in Australia in possession of unauthorized equipment capable of 'transmitting information which might be useful to the enemy. The Amateur Radio Transmitters' Association of New South Wales resents strongly the statements made by the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Thorby),  and its representative has sent me a number of newspaper cuttings containing the statements which it says are very damaging to its members. I have received a good deal of correspondence on the" subject, in which it is stated that the members of the association have- served the interests of the nation by assisting in radio research, and also are members of the reserve forces. A number of its members are serving overseas as wireless telegraphists in the Royal Air Force, and in artillery units, and more are enlisting for overseas service/ Their reputation in the wireless field is very high, and they resent the PostmasterGeneral's grouping of them amongst persons who would assist the enemy. 
 The PostmasterGeneral was not referring to such persons. 
 in reply -  The Government regrets that the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  in the House of Representatives! in connexion with Australia's war effort was not read in this chamber. TheLeader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)has  already taken action to see that all important pronouncements made in the other chamber shall bc made simultaneously in the Senate. 
I remind  Senator Sheehan  that the national register was compiled with the object of ensuring that Australia's' manhood would be used to the best advantage, and I am surprised to learn that  men engaged in the manufacture of munitions have been accepted for service with the Australian Imperial Force. It is the policy of the Government to employ men in those avenues where their services can be of the greatest benefit. It is possible that some men who have been employed in munition factories have enlisted in military units where technical men are required. I shall, however, bring the honorable senator's representations under the notice of the Minister for Supply and Development. 
I shall bring the subject raised by  Senator Aylett  before the responsible Minister, but I think that the rebuke administered to the honorable senator by  Senator Abbott  was justified. Medical practitioners who conduct examinations on behalf of the Government have no axe to grind, and their recommendations with respect to invalid and old-age pensions are based solely on the medical facts ascertained by them.. In such cases the honorable senator should communicate with the Commissioner for Pensions or the responsible Minister before making serious charges against medical practitioners. 
In regard to the points raised by  Senator Brown,  the Minister for Air  (Mr. Fairbairn)  has stated most definitely that there is no lag in connexion with Australia's share of the Empire air-training scheme, although there has been some difficulty in securing the services of an adequate number of qualified mechanics. The implementing of the Empire air scheme is governed largely by the equipment that is available, and in view of thedifficulties with which Great Britain, is at present faced, the delivery of aeroplanes and other equipment may not be made at the rate originally anticipated. Australia's part in the scheme is well advanced. The Ministerfor Air also informed me that the statement that only applicants who have attended certain schools are being selected is incorrect, but that, owing tothe nature of the work to be undertaken in certainbranches of the Air Force, candidates selected must possess the necessary technical and other qualifications. When I asked the Minister the exact- positionwith respect to applications, he informed me that the recruiting officers submit a series of questions to applicants concerning the examinations which they have passed and their general educational qualifications, in order to enable them to determine whether the standard of applicants is sufficiently high to permit them to qualify in navigation and other essential subjects. I give to honorable senators an assurance that there is no foundation for the suggestion that the Royal Australian Air Force is a close preserve for certain classes. It is open to applicants in every walk of life who possess the necessary qualifications, and no discrimination whatever is shown. 
SenatorFraser. - The conditions must have altered. 
That has always been the policy. The other points raised by  Senator Brown  with respect to the activities of the Defence Department will be brought under the notice of the responsible Minister. 
I cannot see what benefit would be derived by demonstrationflights by members of the Royal Australian Air Force over the north-western portion of Australia, as was suggested by  Senator Allan  MacDonald,but I assure the honorable senator that the Government accepts as much responsibility for the adequate defence of the north-western portion of Australia as it does for any other part of the Commonwealth. The honorable senator's request concerning long leave due to members of the Australian Staff Corps will be brought under the notice of the Minister for the Army. With respect to the gold tax, the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  has said that he is considering the practicability of introducing ascheme under which a hardships board will be appointed to hear applications from companies which claim to be in difficulties. From discussions I have had with officers of the Treasury and of the Taxation Department, it would appear that it is difficult to arrive at a basis on which a hardships board could operate. The honorable senator mentioned a mine producing 600 oz. of gold monthly, which has to pay the gold tax although it is operating at a loss. 
If it isunabletoconduct its operations profitably with gold at an abnormal price, due to war coudi-  tions it couldnot carry on successfully with gold at a normal price. 
Apparently the experiments conducted by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in connexion with the destruction of rabbits by virus have been disappointing. The work is still proceeding, the results of which cannot at present be given. 
I would remind  Senator Amour  that the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Thorby)  did not refer to licensed amateur radio transmitters who are obeying the law and who have dismantled their sets, but to those persons who are in possession of unlicensed transmitters which can be used to convey information to the enemy. The Minister stated quite clearly that no half measures would be adopted in connexion with those who are contravening the law. 
The PostmasterGeneral had good reasons for making the statement. In these abnormal times many persons will have to submit to hardships and inconvenience which in other circumstances would be unnecessary. Neither the Postmaster-General nor any other member of the Government desire to do other than safeguard Australia's interests, and the timely warning given was only to those who were disobeyingthe law. The honorable senator's protest will be brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
When will the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development be in a position to make a statement to the Senate with regard to the position of the flax industry? 
I shall ask the Minister for Supply and: Development to secure, as soon as possible, the information desired by the honorable senator. 
"HANDS OFF RUSSIA " RESOLUTION. 
SenatorCOLLINIGS.-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister seen the report published in the Canberra and other southern newspapers yesterday, in which the Attorney-General and Minister for Industry  (Mr. Hughes)  is reported to have said, in a broadcast address on Monday night - " Resolutions warning us to keep our hands off Russia, inspired by the 'Communists, have been adopted by the Labour party"? As the Australian Labour party has publicly, emphatically and officially repudiated the resolution referred to, will the Prime Minister take steps to reprimand  Mr. Hughes  for his grossly inaccurate statement, and give full publicity to such reprimand ? 
I did not notice that particular part of the report. I shall refer the matter to the AttorneyGeneral. 
Is the Loader of the Senate aware that an organization in New South Wales styled the NoConscription League, which is sponsored by the New South Wales Labour party, and is designed to create dissension and bitterness amongthe people, is toeing organized and directed by a notorious Communist named Jeffreys? 
I am not aware of the formation of such an organization, but, my attention having been directed to the matter, it will be investigated. 
'Can the Minister for the Interior state why certain questions relating to the supply of jarrah for public works purposes which I placed on the notice-paper recently have disappeared from the notice-paper, although thequestions have not been answered? 
I cannot say, but I am advised that the information will be available to-morrow, and I shall see that it is furnished to the honorable senator. 
Is the Leader of the Senate aware that the New South Wales branch of the United Australia party has selected, as a candidate for the next Senate elections, Captain Patrick, who entertained Count von Luckner, the spy, when he was in Australia? 
I am aware that  Mr. Patrick  has been selected to stand in the United Australia party interests, but, as to the other part of the question, I think that the honorable senator knows more about von Luckner than I do. 
I shallmake the inquiries suggested, and shall supply tothe honorable senator later the information desired by him. 
On the 24th May,  Senator Eraser  asked the following questions,  upon notice: - 
In view of the policy of the Government in relation to preference to ex-servicee men. why has  Mr. W.  J. Williams, superintendent of the Sydney markets, been appointed supervisor of Food Transport for the duration of the war, at a salary of £796? 
Is it a fact that, in contrast to the above appointment, Lieutenant-Commander P. P. Anderson, V.D.,R.A.N.R., hasbeen recalled under the man-power provisions, from service with the Government and sent to his civil occupation of secretary of the metropolitan markets, Perth? 3.Is it a fact that Lieutenant-Commander Anderson 'saw service in the last war, and has been secretary of the metropolitan markets in Perth for a period of twelve years? 
If the replies to questions 1 and 2 arc in the affirmative, why did not the Government take advantage of LieutenantCommander Anderson's special qualifications for such a position, instead of making an appointment outside the Service and contrary to the policy of the Government? 
The Minister for the Navy has now furnished the following replies to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The war entailed upon the Navy Department increased responsibility for the supervision of foodstuffs intended for the Navy and Army, andthe Sydney City Council kindly loaned the services of  Mr. Williams,  who is an expert in foodstuffs. The loan is only temporary. 
Lieutenant-Commander Anderson was mobilized for duty with the Examination Service at Fremantle, but the Minister for Lands urgently requested that he be released to resume duty with the Metropolitan Market Trust, and the request was approved. 
Yes. 
Lieutenant-Commander Anderson has never expressed any desire to be considered for a civil appointment, and has not stated that his services would be available in that capacity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government has promised to pay a bonus for the production of approved types of charcoal gas-producers for use in motor vehicles and tractors? 
How many types of charcoal gasproducers have been approved? 
What arc the total amounts (if any) paid in bonuses to successful firms or persons? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
The Government has not made any promise to pay a bonus for the production of approved types of charcoal gas-producers. 
Five types of charcoal gas-producers have been approved. 
No amount has been paid in bonuses to any firm or person. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What is the cost and area of land purchased 'for the proposed military hospital in Western Australia? 
Is it a fact that accommodation will only provide for 100 beds when the hospital is erected? If so, does the Minister consider that such accommodation meets with the requirements of that State? 
In view of the fact that Western Australia is nearest to the theatre of war, and that New South Wales and Victoria' are being provided with hospitals to accommodate 1,200 and 1,000 beds respectively, is the Minister of the opinion that the accommodation provided in Western Australia is sufficient? . .. 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the' following answers: - 
The area of the site selected is 25 acres. The purchase price is now the subject of negotiation. 2 and 3. The present intention is to provide accommodation for 100,600 and 500 beds in the military hospitals which are to be erected in Perth, Sydney and Melbourne, respectively. Any expansion of this accommodation will be a matter for future consideration. 
asked the 
Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the non-success of Western Australian trading firms in securing contracts for Army requirements is alleged to be due to their being unable to get down to eastern States prices, owing to - 
higher rates of pay to, employees in Western Australian 'industries; 
higher premium payments for workers' compensation insurance; 
the application andenforcement of the provisions of the Western Australian Factories and Shops Act? 
If so, will he allow for the marginaldifferences when dealing with each tender submitted for contract prices? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 1 and 2. I understand that it has been claimed that the factors mentioned have militated against Western Australian tenderers receiving contracts for some defence supplies, but, in the absence of specific instances of the particular class of labour concerned, I am unable to confirm the claim. If the honorable senator will supply such particulars, I shall be pleased to consider the second part of his question. 
asked the Min ister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is the Government,through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, or any other department, doing any'research work relative to wood-fibre substitutes for wool,? 
Is it a fact that such substitutes are of such a character that it is claimed by experts to be impossible to tell the finished products from wool except by certain technical tests? 
Is it a fact that 2,000,000,000 lb. weight of this wool fibre was produced during last year and that half of that quantity was produced by Japan? 
Whatsteps, if any, does the Government propose to take to prevent the entry of this substitute material into Australia? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has no knowledge of any such claim. 
The following figures have been obtained from a trade journal regarding rayon production for 1939: - 

<graphic href="163332194005293_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

Cloths made from synthetic fibres which it is considered resemble worsted, tweeds, serges or flannels are dutiable at the substantial protectiverates applicable to woollen pieces. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
In connexion with the series of questions asked by  Senator Aylett  on the 23rd April, 1940, in relation to the apple and pear acquisition scheme, will the Minister supply the names of the three members of the State Committee appointed as a sub-committee to confer with the Chamber of Fruit and Vegetable Industries on matters arising between meetings ? . 
Is it a fact that a charge of1d. per case for receiving and delivery is being collected by agents in Sydney on all interstate fruit, and id. per case is being rebated to the State Committee towards the expenses of the committee? 
If so, why is it that New South Wales fruit is exempt from such charges towards the expenses of their own committee? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Messrs. E. E. Herrod, J. Holmes and L. J. Jenkins. 2 and 3. The Apple and Pear Board has approved of the customary charge of1d. per case by agents in Sydney for the receiving and delivery of interstate fruit. No portion of this charge goes to the State Committee, but1/2d. per case is repaid to the Apple and Pear Board and is credited to the rebates and commissions account of the board at the Commonwealth Bank, Melbourne. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply the Senate with the names of the person or persons, or company or companies, who have been granted permission to raise capital by public subscription for the search for oil, or for scout boring in Victoria, stating the respective amounts, and the dates permission was granted? 
SenatorMcBRIDE. - The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The particulars which are submitted to the Treasury in connexion with applications to issue capital are confidential. The Treasurer is therefore unable to supply the details asked for. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate what is the amount of inscribed stock taken up by the private banks for their employees and the number of employees who are receiving this benefit? 
Has it been stated that the banks are taking this action in a disinterested manner? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 1 and 2. I have no information on this matter. 
 by leave  - read the statement made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Air  (Mr. Fairbairn)  (vide  page 1448). 
 by leave  - Honorable senators will realize that the position of the Allied forces, which have been holding the German drive across 
Flanders and northern France, has been most gravely affected by the sudden capitulation of the Belgian Army.. The decision of the King of the Belgians to surrender was announced early yesterday morning.Up to that time the situation was that British, French and Belgian divisions were holding a lino extending roughly in a semicircle from the French coast near Dunkirk round to the north Belgian coast. Though this line was irregular and was subject at several points to intense German pressure, it did represent a barrier against further German penetration to the channel coast. 
Two or three days ago it was known that the Belgian positions had been very heavily assailed and that the Belgian right flank had been broken. A British division, which could ill be spared, was promptly despatched to the assistance of the Belgians at the point of greatest danger. It is understood that the Belgian capitulation was made without any prior warning or consultation whatever with the French and British commands. The result is that the left flank of the British and French positions has been left completely exposed. When it is realized that this opens the way for a German advance towards Dunkirk across western Belgium, and also that Dunkirk is the principal port of supply for the British Expeditionary Force, the gravity of the present situation becomes obvious. Calais has already fallen into the enemy's hands, and German units have been reported to be moving on Dunkirk from that direction also. Meanwhile, the British Expeditionary Force is maintaining a most courageous resistance against steadily increasing odds. Its strength is largely intact, and its fighting spirit unbroken. We can be confident that it will carry out to the last whatever task is assigned to it. 
The Prime Minister of France, in his broadcast to the French nation yesterday, made it clear that France will continue the struggle with undiminished resolution. Strong French defensive positions have been established along the line of the Somme and the Aisne, and German attempts to extend their penetration across the Somme and in the south-east sector near Sedan havebeen successfully held. It is not the wish of the Government to enter into any  recriminations regarding the decision of King Leopold. The Belgian forces had for days been exposed to overwhelming mechanized and air attacks, and, without a full knowledge of the facts of their military position, it is impossible to form a judgment on the decision of their command er-inrchief. It must be obvious to honorable senators that the seriousness of the position in which the French and British: Forces in northern France and Flanders now find themselves cannot be exaggerated. 
Although this measure may have farreaching effects, it is, in itself, simple. I am sure that, as was the case in the House of Representatives, no serious opposition will be presented to it in this chamber. The object of clause 2 is to substitute the word " plants ", for the word "plant" in section 5 of the principal act. As the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  pointed out in his second-reading speech that section has been interpreted to mean that whilst the Government can purchase a whole plant, it cannot purchase parts of a plant, or parts for a plant. The object of clause 2 is to remove any doubt in that respect. 
Under this measure the Government also seeks power to contribute towards the cost of any geological survey or scoutdrilling operations conducted by it in conjunction with a State, and also to make advances to persons engaged in the initial stages of the production of petroleum. I need hardly say that the Opposition realizes that the discovery of petroleum oil in Australia is of vital importance to this country. At no time in our history has that fact been more generally recognized than the present. In spite of all the investigations which have been undertaken at considerable expense, no results of commercial value have yet  been obtained. I suggest that the Government should immediately undertake more extensive work in order not only to discover flow oil in commercial quantities, but also to explore every channel whereby we can make ourselves selfsufficient in respect of power supplies. This matter, of course, has been repeatedly debated in this chamber. The Government has taken certain action to develop extraction: of oil from coal and shale. I do not know whether the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has conducted any investigation into the possibility of extracting oil from vegetable matter. Considerable progress has been made in north Queensland in producing power alcohol from sugar waste, and an appreciable quantity of that fuel is now being used in industry in this country. I support the measure. 
 Sub-clause  2  of clause  2  seeks to make the provisions of sub-section  1  of the same clause retrospective to the date on which the Petroleum Oil Search Act (No.  2)  1936, came into operation. 
That is the Minister's explanation; but this clause if agreed to will also give to the Minister power to refund to certain persons moneys which they may claim they have expended in the purchase of drilling plant since 1936. 
Advances have been made from the Petroleum Oil Search Trust Fund to certain companies for the purchase of drilling plant. I contendthat the provisions of this measure should not be applied retrospectively, but that they should operate as from the date on which this measure becomes law . I am considerably handicapped indiscussing the bill, because I have not yet received an answer to a question of which I gave notice last Friday morning. To-day, I was told that the answer had not yet come to hand. My question was - 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer supply the Senate with the names of the person or persons, or company or companies, who have been granted permission to raise capital by public subscription for the search for oil, or for scout boring in Victoria, stating the respective amounts and the dates on which permission was granted? 
SenatorARTHUR. - I believe that it has. At any rate, I resent the fact that although I put my question on the noticepaper last Friday, the Minister flippantly tells me to-day that the answer has not yet come to hand. Now, one of his colleagues suggests that the answer to that question has no bearing on the search for flow oil. Such an attitude is typical of that adopted by Ministers in the Senate in dealing with questions asked by honorable senators on this side. We are entitled to receive the information we seek at the earliest possible moment. I am at a disadvantage in discussing this measure in the absence of the information which I sought last Friday. For the reason I have already given, I voice my opposition to the bill. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia)  [3.31]. -  As I understand that the object of the retrospective provision of the measure is to legalize advances already made by the Government in connexion with drilling operations, I can see noreason why the bill should not be passed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause  1  agreed to. 
Clause  2  (Petroleum oil search trust account). 
 I would like an assurance from the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  with regard to grants which will be made by the Government under this clause. Can the Minister assure honorable senators that this very wide clause will not permit of claims being made by every Tom, Dick and Harry who has endeavoured to enlarge upon the search for oil since 1936? We have heard quite a lot about " doodlebug" merchants, and I would .like to  be  convinced that the additional clause will not give scope for claims from unstable organizations which have had a mushroomlike growth. 
I cannot give an assurance that claims will not be received. Claims are received  daily and  are considered by expert geologists of the Department of the Interior, who make  a  thorough investigation of any request for assistance. 
Yes. This bill does not provide that claims must be granted. It merely provides authority for the Government to grant assistance in approved cases. 
The question of refunds does not arise. As I said in my second-reading speech, the purpose of this bill is to make legal certain advances made by the Treasury in connexion with scout drilling undertaken in Gippsland in conjunction with the Victorian Government on a £1 for £1 basis. The bill also provides that in cases where companies arc fortunate enough to find indications of oil, the department may, if it considers it advisable, grant some assistance to those companies in order that they may explore further the prospects of getting oil in commercial quantities. Such payments could not be made under the present legislation. 

 Senator ARTHUR (New South Wales) "3.53]. - What I arn concerned about in connexion with this clause is, first, the position of the trust account. Is there any money now in the account for use in the directions indicated by this clause, or does the Government intend to put more money into it? In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 20th January last there appeared a statement by the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  to the effect that the Government did not intend to provide any. further assistance to companies -engaged in scout drilling operations. The Minister also said that the 
Oil Advisory Committee had recommended that that body- be abolished because results had been disappointing. In the same newspaper eleven days later, there appeared a contradictory, statement to' the effect that the ..Government intended to continue assistance to scout drilling operations and the search for flow oil. It was also stated that £50,000 remained in the trust account, for that purpose. To my knowledge, , money was given to the Freney Company operating in the Kimberleys in Western Australia, to the Apanaipi Company operating in Papua, and to another concern operating in Victoria. Speaking from memory, I think the amounts were £17,000, £12,000 and £1,200 respectively. I submit that if money is to be expended on scout drilling operations and on geological surveys, the Government should certainly not be guided by those gentlemen who style themselves geological experts - those dismal failures who have conducted the oil search in tin's country! 
The.  CHAIRMAN (Senator James McLachlan).  - Order! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the clause now under discussion. 
 Senator Arthur  has repeated the whole story which he told us some days ago. It has nothing whatever to do with the activities of the Department of the Interior or of the Oil Advisory Committee. The statements which he has made with regard to things that have happened to certain individuals have nothing whatever to do with the bill or with the Oil Advisory Committee,and nothing is known of them in the Department of the Interior. As I have explained, the State Government of Victoria and the Commonwealth Government were asked whether they would be prepared to carry out certain scout-drilling operations in Gippsland. We agreed to the request, but under the existing legislation, the Commonwealth Government had no power to make advances for that purpose out of the trust fund. The Treasury was approached in regard to the matter and it agreed to make the advances until such time as amending legislation of this kind could be passed through Parliament in order to make the payment legal. Scout-drilling tests are being carried out in the Lakes Entrance district of Gippsland. As honorable senators know, oil-bearing sands have been discovered in that area from time to time. Scout drilling is being done at various sites, and the cores will either be examined by our own officers or sent overseas for examination as to their porosity. It is hoped that these examinations will enable a decision to be made as to whether or not the fields can be a paying proposition. With all due respect to  Senator Arthur,  I suggest that the information which is available to the State Government of Victoria and to the Commonwealth Government is just, as valuable as any information which may come into the possession of the honorable senator. Thesetests are now being carried out to see whether or not assistance should be given to the search for oil in that field. There is no other reason. The amount of money that will be expended out of the trust fund will amount to only a few thousand pounds. The honorable senator asked me what is the. position with regard to the trust fund. Honorable senators will recall that £250,000 was made available some years ago to encourage companies to search for oil in Australia. I think that about £40,000 remains to the credit of the fund. One of the reasons for the Government's discontinuance of advances to oil companies was the disclosure that a number of concerns were being established with insufficient capital and were taking advantage of the Government's proposal to pay a £1 for £1 subsidy on expenditure in boring for oil. Many of those companies had not sufficient capital to put down more than one bore, and invariably the shareholders lost their money. The Oil Advisory Committee also considered that it would be inadvisable to encourage new ventures in this direction, because the obligations into which the Government had entered would require additional funds to be made available. For instance, it had agreed to assist the Freney Company in Kimberley, Western Australia, to continue operations, in what is believed to be a favorable locality. That- company bears one-third of the expenditure, the State government one-third, and the Commonwealth one- third. Advice given to me suggests that we would be fully justified in further supporting that company. We also have some obligations in connexion with the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company. Considerable expenditure has already been incurred in Papua. The company mentioned is renting a boring plant and is paying 10 per cent, on its capital cost. Apparently  Senator Arthur  is smarting under some sense of grievance with respect to my administration of the department. I assure the honorable gentleman that the whole of the resources of the department are readily made available to any company that is conducting  a.  genuine search for oil in this country, irrespective of whether he has an interest in it or not. All that a company is required, to do is to furnish the necessary security and pay for the use of the plant. The department does not pick and choose. I do not pay much attention to the hon orable senator's abuse of the Government in connexion with this matter, because I am satisfied that the department over which I preside is doing a good job in the best interests of the people of Australia. The purpose of the bill is to legalize payments which we have already made, and paragraph  e  of the clause before the committee authorizes continued assistance to companies after the discovery of oil. Under existing legislation Government advances cease with the discovery of oil. 
The Minister's complaint that 1 have abused him and his department in connexion with this matter- is a figment of his imagination. I certainly told the truth. 
 Not on all occasions. 
The Minister having taken objection to the statement made by  Senator Arthur  I ask the honorable senator to withdraw it. 
Clause agreedto. 
Title- agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. . 
Bill readathirdtime. 
.  -I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This billprovides for a number of alterations inconnexion with the telegraph rates operating throughout Australia. Another . measure provides for special concessions to members of the Commonwealth Defence Forces. This bill will reduce the. number of words in the normal . telegram from sixteen to fourteen, and the, new rates will provide that an ordinary; telegram of fourteen words may be transmitted from any post office to any point within a radius of fifteen miles for 9d. irrespective of whether it is transmitted across a State border or not. Beyond a radius of fifteen miles the charge for an ordinary telegram will be fourteen words for1s. throughout theCommonwealth. This will abolish the interstate telegraph rates, and eliminatetheheavy charges now imposed on what are generally referred to as border telegrams. In practice it will enable residents on border towns to transmit an ordinary telegram of fourteen words for fifteen miles for 9d., or sixteen words for11d., compared with the present charge of sixteen words or1s. 4d. It also abolishes the imposition of double rates for telegrams lodged for transmission on Sundays, Christmas Days and Good Fridays, and telegrams sent after the prescribed hours. In view of the important development of broad- casting, provision is made to grant press rates for the transmission of news telegrams to broadcasting stations throughout Australia. The concessions granted by eliminating interstate and border rates, the abolition of double rates on holidays and after hours, and the application of press rates to broadcasting telegrams, will amount to between £20,000 and £35,000. 
The advantage gained by reducing the normal telegram from sixteen to fourteen words will increase the revenue by an estimated amount of about £52,000, and after allowing for further concessions to the Defence Forces the net result will be a financial gain to the Postal Department of approximately £25,000. This, of course, is taking into account the probability of an increase of the volume of telegraphic traffic between the States, particularly between border towns where the maximum concession will operate. 
The bill will remove several of the anomalies which have remained with the post office since the inauguration of federation. Whilst we accepted the principle of uniform postal rates throughout the Commonwealth, we have refrained from applying the same system to telegrams. Telegrams relating to the movement of shipping sent by the Commonwealth Navigation and Lighthouse Services for the purpose of being posted up at telegraph offices will be transmitted at press rates. Whilst these amendments will bring about uniformity  in regard to. the telegraph rates throughout Australia, they will also introduce economies in the internal administration, particularly in the Accounts Branch of the department, and at the same time have a tendency to allow a greater number of telegrams to be transmitted in any given time. By the elimination of Hie double rates after hours, it will bring the telegraph system more closely in line with the telephone system under which concession rates are granted for afterhour traffic, when the trunk lines are less congested. These new provisions will have a tendency to distribute the load on our telegraph system over a longer period during each 24 hours, and will unable the department to take greater advantage of the operating organization during the slack periods. 
The new telegraph rates will represent flu average charge of .Sid. per word for ordinary telegrams through Australia. The average rate for ordinary telegrams throughout the United Kingdom is .'83d.; in New Zealand l.lld. and from 1.05d. to 4.05d. under the zone system in the United States of America. From these figures it will be seen that the new average telegraph rate throughout Australia will be even lower than the rate operating in Great Britain. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I have not heard one logical argument advanced that would suggest that the proposal is not a good one. A most important meeting of the Loan Council was held this week. Ministers representing different shades of political opinion throughout Australia met in this chamber to discuss certain matters prior to reaching decisions of great importance to the nation. When this body assembles, it forgets party differences, and the interests of. the country alone are considered. I do not believe that the party to which I belong has a monopoly of the good qualities, and that the Opposition has all of the bad ones. No doubt, some good is to be found on both sides and, therefore, I think that, in the interests of Australia, a government representative of all political parties should be formed. 
If ever there has been need for unity in Australia, it is now. The enemy guns are thundering at the gates of London. Britain has its back to the wall, and is fighting for its life. If Britain goes down, we shall go down, losing our liberty, our standards of living, of which we 'are proud and which we hope to raise, our independence, our industrial and social legislation, and everything else that we hold dear. Australia, therefore, is left with one problem only at the moment, and that is the winning of the war. If we lose, all of our problems will be solved for us without our assistance, without our advice, and certainly not in a way that will be to our liking. So the question that confronts us is: Can this problem of winning the war be better solved by unity, or is it more likely to be successfully solved by disunity? The Labour party thinks that it can render better service by remaining a virile Opposition than by joining a national government. At Cabinet meetings, information is disclosed that is denied to the Parliament generally, and, if members of the Labour party have constructive suggestions to make, or administrative ability, they have an opportunity in Cabinet to show what they can do. But the Labour party says to the present 
Government, " You make the decisions and we snail say in Parliament whether they are good or had ". I contend that the proper place for leading members of the Labour party who have constructive ideas is the Cabinet room, where they could participate in the discussions, and where effect could be given to the views' they propounded. 
It cannot decide them in the first instance. The honorable senator, as a member of the executives of certain Labour organizations, knows that an executive is able to come to decisions that a larger body could not reach; but, apparently, the honorable senator does not believe in a Parliamentary executive. To that extent he is inconsistent. In this Parliament we sometimes have to discuss matters after decisions have been reached regarding them. 
I shall contrast the attitude of the Australian Parliamentary Labour party with that of the British Parliamentary Labour party. Forty-eight hours before  Mr Churchill  was entrusted by the King with the formation of a new Ministry, the British party was violently opposed to taking part in a national government; but, immediately  Mr. Chamberlain  stepped down, it came in, and its decision was accepted by an overwhelming majority of its supporters throughout Great Britain. It did not first seek the permission of its supporters to join the national government.  Lt  did what it thought was right, and trusted to the common sense of is supporters, who immediately endorsed its decision by 2,400,000 votes to 170,000. Not one word of criticism has been levelled against the Parliamentary Labour party in Great Britain because of its action in that regard. Evidently its supporters realize that the most urgent problem confronting the Empire to-day is the winning of the war. Unfortunately, the Australian Parliamentary Labour party is afraid of itself It is not game, and for a number of years has not been game, to come to important decisions itself, thereby giving a lead to its supporters outside. When the national register legislation was introduced, instructions from outside were received by the parliamentary party. When the Supply and Development bill was under discussion a similar position arose. Again, in the case of the national insurance legislation, outside supporters of the party instructed the parliamentary representatives as to the attitude they should adopt. This position is being repeated with regard to the formation of a national government. The Parliamentary Labour party is not incapable, but it has not sufficient courage to make a decision for itself, and let its supporters outside know what it thinks. I pity it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  knows as well as I do that he would be of more use in a national government than he is as Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. In Cabinet his ideas could be considered before decisions were reached. I do not suggest that he has original ideas, but he believes that he would be an acquisition to any government. Yet he is afraid to make a suggestion with regard te this matter for fear of outside criticism. During the last war the Labour party did make a decision, but an outside organization - the Political Labour League as it was then known - immediately expelled those who made the decision without its concurrence. The present Labour party, which has never forgotten what occurred on that occasion, is always governed by the fear of expulsion. The Parliamentary Labour party can never act on its own initiative; it always has to wait for instructions from an outside authority. The representatives of the Labour party in this chamber are supposed to speak on behalf of approximately one-half of the electors in the Commonwealth, but while most of those whom they represent are clamouring for the Government to do all in its power to bring the war to a successful conclusion, those in charge of some of the unions - I refer more particularly to the paid officials - feel that they might lose something if they are not allowed to call the tune. Unfortunately, the Parliamentary Labour party has not sufficient courage to do what it should do. Prior to the war we were faced with numerous domestic problems, but on the outbreak of hostilities,  practically every one iu Australia admitted that hie first duty was to win the war, after which our domestic problems could be considered. Every individual, regardless of the political considerations, wishes to see Australia's maximum effort applied to winning the war; but unfortunately representatives of certain political parties continue to mislead the people by saying that they can render better service by remaining in opposition. If such a policy is desirable in Australia it would also bc advantageous in Great Britain; but the members of the British Labour party are made of different stuff from the members of the Australian Labour party. The National Government in Britain is composed of representatives of all parties, each of whom is anxious to do his best to serve the nation. Since the reconstruction of the British Cabinet, certain revolutionary legislation has been passed by the British Parliament in the interests of the British people. Such legislation having been enacted in Britain, I believe that it would be possible for similar legislation to be passed by this Parliament. 
The honorable senator would oppose it if it were introduced. 
I now wish to refer to the pressing need for greater national effort. I believe that sufficient has not yet been done. Last night a remarkable " win the war " demonstration was held in the Sydney Town Hall. The great majority of those present were not interested in political parties, but were anxious to assist in some way. Many in the community can do more than they are doing at present. The practicability of the suggestion I am about to mate should be examined. Many ex-members of the Australian Imperial Force who are physically fit but are over 40 years of age will not he accepted for service in the army. 
It should be practicable to place somewhere all those who are' willing and anxious to serve, and who are unable to do so because they are told that there is no work for them. Moreover, there are tens of thousands of civilians over military age who could perform some useful service. Honorable senators on both sides of the chamber have friends iri business who may not possess sufficient cash to enable them to invest in war loans or to purchase war savings certificates, but who are able to render gratuitously, hourly, half-daily, or daily, some service in the national effort. Men have told me that they would give their services for a couple of days a week and also work at night without remuneration, but apparently there is no work for them to do. Every member of this Parliament - excluding Ministers who are fully occupied - is capable and, I am sure, willing to render some additional service to the community. 
We would have to revolutionize Government policy before that could be done. 
Early in the debate on this motion certain representatives of the Labour party in his chamber endeavoured to outdo each other in an endeavour to disown the Communist party.  Senator Fraser  was sufficiently enthusiastic to tack the Communists on to the United Australia party, although his references applied more particularly to Western Australia. Idonotknow anything about Communist influences in that State, but I do know something of the activities of Communists in New South Wales. The representatives of New -South Wales made a feeble attempt to tack the Communists on to the United Australia party, but in doing so they were speaking with their tongues in their cheeks.In 1934, a man named Sharkey, an esteemed member of the Labour party in New South Wales, who contested the Senate elections as a straight out Communist candidate, received about 23,000 first preference votes, and of that number 19,000, or 83 per cent., of his second preferences were given to members of the Australian Labour party.I invite honorable senators opposite to challenge the figures I have given. Should they be able to prove them tobe incorrect, I shall readilyapolo- gize. The United Australia party and oughts Credit candidates received between them 3,800 of the Communist preferences,8 per cent, going to the former and 7 per cent, to the latter. These figures prove conclusively that the Communist party supports the Labour party. At the general election in 1937 the Communist party was very anxious to defeat the Lyons Government, and if thought it could best do so by supporting Labour candidates. I draw the attention of honorable senators opposite to leaflet No. 1 issued by the Communist party in Victoria during the election campaign of 1937 :  - 
The matter we are discussing is most, important, and I am sorry that my remarks irritate the honorable senator. However, as  Senator Fraser  has already dealt with this matter, the electors generally should be informed just where the Communist party stands in relation to other political parties. I should expect  Senator Ashley  to he irritated, by my remarks, because he must go to the Communist party for endorsement as a candidate at the next election for the Senate. However, I cannot consider his feelings in this matter. As I have already shown, the Communist party supported the Labour party in the general election in 1937. Indeed, it is owing to the Communist vote that  Senator Ashley  is able to grace this chamber, because his majority at the last election was only 11,000, whereas at the preceding election the strength of the Communist vote was shown to be at least 23,000. No doubt  Senator Ashley  is very grateful for the assistance which he received from the Communists. In 1937 the Labour party welcomed the support Of the Communists. Immediately after that election a section of the Labour party broke away. That section was composed of Communists who endeavoured toassert themselves by forming a new Labour party to which  Senator Ashley- 
The inference which must obviously be drawn from that statement is grossly untrue. I ask you,  Mr. Deputy President,  whether I have any protection against a malicious liar such as he is? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator James McLachlan).  - If thehonorable senator takes objection to  Senator Ashley's  remark, I shall ask him to withdraw it- 
In making that statement  Senator Ashley  is a malicious liar. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  If  Senator Dein  takes objection to  Senator Ashley's  remark I shall ask him to withdraw it. 
His statement is grossly untrue. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Does the honorable senator wish  Senator Ashley  to withdraw his remark? 
It is very difficult to ask a malicious liar to withdraw anything. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT.Order ! I ask  Senator Dein  whether ho wishes  Senator Ashley  to withdraw his remark. 
That is the most difficult question I have ever been asked. Out of deference to the Chair, and not in any way because of the malicious lie,I ask that the remark be withdrawn. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT.-I now ask  Senator Dein  to withdraw his remark that  Senator Ashley  is a malicious liar. 
I do not know that that is possible. To me he is a malicious liar. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Order! I ask the honorable senator to withdraw unreservedly his remark that  Senator Ashley  is a malicious liar. 
Out of deference to the Chair, I withdraw. 
Statements have been made by two or three " things " opposite. 
If you are not a " thing ", it does not apply to you. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I ask  Senator Dein  to withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw. Statements similar to that made by  Senator Ashley  have been made by other honorable senators opposite. I refute their malicious reflections and would point out that I was born in Australia half a century ago ; my father was born in Australia81 years ago; and my mother was born in Australia 83 years ago. In those circumstances it ill-becomes any honorable senator opposite to make aspersions such as  Senator Ashley  has made. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Callings)  set the example for such conduct a. little while ago when he made a reply in somewhat similar terms. 
 Senator Ashley  apparently sees something in a name. 
I do not want the honorable senator's explanation. However much he may now back and fill, he conveyed a certain impression. It is fortunate for him. that he isnot a better man than he is. This bitterness arose becauseI stated- 
What I said is true. 
It is always the same with honorable senators opposite. They get up and say all the things that come to putrid minds about honorable senators on this side of the chamber. "We have been charged during this debate, with being allied to the Communists. When I refute that charge, and show that the Communists support the  Labour  party, insults are hurled at us. Following the 1937 election a split occurred in the Labour party of New South Wales, mainly because of the dissatisfaction ot a section led by the extremists, or " reds ".  Senator Ashley  was bitterly opposed to that section. That was about eighteen months or two years ago. The breakaway party immediately appealed to the federal executive of the Labour party for recognition as the official Labour party in New South Wales. At first the federal executive would not give that recognition; but later on they again appealed to the federal executive which came to the conclusion that this section formed an important section of the Labour movement in New South Wales. The federal executive, therefore, decided to call a unity conference, and a meeting was held in Canberra to determine the basis of representation at that conference. Both of the parties to the dispute, the Lang party and the Heffron party, gloated over the fact that a unity conference was to be called. Upon reflection, however, the " reds " felt that they would be outnumbered at such a gathering. Consequently they protested against the basis of representation, and in due course the unity conference was held under conditions which gave to' the " red " section, satisfactory representation. The result was that the Heffron party won hands down at the unity conference. As the result of that development,  Senator Ashley  and his colleagues found themselves outside the official Labour party in New South Wales. Later, the Labour party held its Easter conference, at which the " reds " were again in the majority. It was at that conference that the " Hands off Russia " motion was carried. That resolution caused immediate consternation in the rank and file of the Labour movement. The federal executive of the Australian Labour party held a meeting and decided by a majority vote that the minute referring to the resolution should be expunged. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  was not agreeable to expunging the minute, and urged that a new committee be set up to take charge of the Labour movement in New South Wales, but he was out-voted and the demand for expunging the minute was carried. But did that action alter the hearts of the men responsible for carrying the resolution?. I. submit not. Surely  Senator Collings  does not look upon the expunging of. the minute as a general . cleansing of the movement. If he does, he is much more innocent than I thought him to be. .Certainly the resolution was expunged, but the Labour movement is still controlled by the " red " element. Shortly after the carrying of the resolution the coal strike occurred, and the situation was dominated by a few extremists - the " reds What was the attitude of the official Labour party in New South Wales to that strike? It supported the coal strikers up to the hilt ; but the strike was not supported by  Mr. Curtin,  or by the federal executive.  Mr. Curtin  did his utmost to bring about a resumption of work, but the " red " executive in charge of the Labour movement in New South Wales urged the strikers on. They did not desire a settlement of the dispute. 
It is correct. 
The official Labour party is that led by  Mr. McKell,  but policy is determined by the Australian Labour party executive, and that party supported the strike right up to the hilt. 
He is Leader of the Labour party in the State Parliament. The Australian Labour party executive is the controlling body in New South Wales, and  Senator Collings  knows that. He himself went to New South Wales a few years ago and endeavoured to whiten the hearts of the Labour people there. He failed miserably, however, and returned to his own State. I was amused to hear the two Labour parties in this chamber endeavouring to tag the Communist party on to each other. It was a spectacle made even more amusing by the attempts of honorable senators opposite to tag the Communist party on to the United Australia party. My party has never supported the Communist party, we do not want their support, and we have told them so. At the 1934 elections I was one of thirteen candidates for the Senate, and the Labour party put me thirteenth on their " how to vote " cards. On that occasion apparently Labour leaders had no hesitation in putting Communists before the United Australia party, and in return, apparently by a reciprocal arrangement, the Communists gave their preferences to Labour candidates. In spite of that, honorable senators opposite, time after time, make miserably futile attempts to tag the Communists on to the United Australia party. Nobody wants the Communists because they are disrupters ; the Opposition does not want them any more than we do, but unfortunately the Labour party has not sufficient courage to tell the Communists that it does not want them. The United Australia party has at least had the temerity to tell the Communists what it thinks of thom, and when the next election comes round, even though  Senator Collings  may be bold enough to say what he thinks of the Communists, many of his colleagues will not be game to follow his example. That has been the case in the past and it will be the case in the future. No doubt when  Senator Ashley  faces the electors he will not say very much about the Communists, although some of his erstwhile colleagues in New South Wales will have a good deal to say about them. [ shall be interested as this debate proceeds to listen once more to honorable senators opposite speaking with their tongues in their cheeks, and attempting to dissociate themselves from Communists who are their friends and supporters. 
Unfortunately, during your absence from the chamber,  Mr. President,  an incident occurred for which I wish to express my regret. The incident was provoked by the speech made by  Senator 
Dein who, although he was supposed to be debating the financial statement, never once mentioned it. The whole of his address was  a  vilification of the Labour party,  with  particular reference to myself. The honorable senator made strenuous endeavours to connect  me  with the Communist party. I assure him that he was mistaken in his interpretation of an interjection which I made. It will be recalled that at the beginning of to-day's  Bitting  Senator Dein  asked a  question with regard to the activities of the Communist party and its association with the Labour party. 
I thereupon asked  a  question in regard to a selected United Australia party candidate for the next Senate elections, Captain Patrick, who had entertained Count von Luckner, the German spy, at his own home. When  Senator Dein  was speaking, I interjected to tho effect that I would prefer to be associated with a Communist rather than with a German sympathizer. The honorable senator inferred that I was referring to his parentage, but I assure him that I had no such intention. There was no thought of  Senator Dein's  parents in my mind at all, and if honorable senator? were misled by my interjection, I apologize. I am not concerned with the manner in which  Senator Dein  may receive the apology, because if he uses outside this chamber the language which he used this afternoon I shall be quite capable of dealing with him. 
The financial policy announced by the Treasurer involves war expenditure amounting to £46,000,000 in the current financial year and £79,000,000 for the next year,' or a total of £125,000,000. Of the £46,000,000, about £39,000,000 is in sight, so that £7,000,000 still has to be found in order to carry on the services of the Commonwealth to the end of June, 1.940. The £79,000,000 for next year, plus the remaining £7,000",000 for this year, makes a total of £86,000,000. The Treasurer anticipates that on the basis of existing taxation the budget of 1940-41 will be able to provide £16,000,000. Thus, in effect, the total sum to be provided is £70,000,000. The Government proposes to raise £50,000,000 by loans and the balance of £20,000,000 by taxation. Of the £20,000,000 to be raised by taxation, approximately half istobe derived from an increase of the sales tax. In making his statement to this chamber the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  was very brief, and although I have perused his speech carefully, I can find very little explanation of the taxation proposals. There is a good deal more information in the Statement presented by the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  in the House ofRepresentatives, and itgives me an opportunity to make some observations with regard to the methods to be employed in order to raise the necessary money. Of the total amount to be found by increased taxes it is proposed to raise £4,000,000 by raising the income tax. I regard the income tax as the fairest form of tax, when it is applied in accordance with the capacity of the people to pay. But it is desirable that the Treasurer's invasion of this field should be based on equity. We appreciate the magnitude of the task confronting the Government with regard to the successful prosecution of the war, and, as has already been made plain, the Opposition is prepared to do all that lies in its power to assist the Ministry. For this reason, my criticism of the financial statement presented by the Treasurer will be somewhat restrained. I would, however, direct attention to the incidence on the lower and higher incomes of the proposed increases of income tax. The following table is instructive: - 

<graphic href="163332194005293_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

I am aware of the reason given, but I feel sure that no honorable senator would argue that the proposed percentage increases are equitable. 
I know that the Treasurer, in fixing the percentage increases of income tax for the higher and lower incomes, has had regard to the tax levied in some of the States, particularly Queensland. I am in complete agreement with the principle adopted in that State, and I fully appreciate the social services rendered by the Government of Queensland in return for the revenue received from its various tax sources. The principle observed by the State government in imposing it? taxes is the cardinal principle that should be applied to all tax proposals, namely, the ability of the taxpayer to meetthe charge. The Queensland Government has, in its taxation policy, and social services, shown a statesmanlikeattitude, which might, with advantage, be followed by the Commonwealth and some of the other States. The national relief scheme launched by the Queensland Government some years ago, provides work for the unemployed on various government undertakings at award rates of pay and under approved conditions. One such, work, the construction of a road from Brisbane to Cairns, has a definite defence value. As a matter of fact, the State Government approached the Commonwealth Government with a request that it should carry out that particular work. A taxpayer in Queensland having a taxable income of £10,000 a year from property pays Commonwealth tax of £1,857. A taxpayer having the same income in Victoria pays £2,636, the difference being due to the higher tax imposed in Queensland on the same income level. The increased Commonwealth tax on the Queensland taxpayer in that, income group is only £68, compared with an increase of £101 on the taxpayer living in Victoria. Similarly, the increased Commonwealth tax on a Queensland taxpayer having a taxable income of £5,000 is only £14. Taxpayers in the higher income ranges are not called upon to pay sufficient relative to taxpayers having incomes of £400 or £350, whose  increases are respectively 50 per cent, and 66 per cent. 
I shall come to that aspect of the Government's tax proposals later. Invariably, taxpayers in the lower income groups have the largest families. Consequently, there is a heavier drain on their financial resources than is imposed upon taxpayers enjoying the higher incomes, and, in addition, the incidence of the sales tax on persons in receipt of lower incomes is much heavier. During the last five years the total of state income taxes has increased from £34,000,000 to £50,500,000. 
No. In New South Wales,, notwithstanding increased taxation of the people, there has been no appreciable improvement of social services, and the unemployment position there is as acute as it ever was, many thousands of people being on relief work and in receipt of food sustenance. Unfortunately, the decision of the Loan Council this week further to curtail State expenditure owing to the greater demands of the Commonwealth for its defence programme, will accentuate the position. Taxation per head of population in New South Wales in 1939 was £7 8s. 3d., compared with £5 18s. 8d. in 1934; but, as I have stated, there has been no material improvement of- the social services provided by the State Government. For instance, the figures for last year show that children attending schools in New South Wales were 25,000 fewer than in 1931, although during that period the cost of education rose from £4,500,000 to £5,500,000. Complaints are continually being received regarding the condition of school buildings in different parts of the State. In some places the children are obliged to sit in sheds and various other make-shift buildings. Educational facilities are most unsatisfactory at Glen Davis, where considerable Commonwealth expenditure is being incurred in connexion with the development of the shale oil industry, the children being housed in a hessian shed, and therefore exposed to the rigors of a severe winter climate. 
I know that it is, but I should think that as the Commonwealth Government is vitally interested in the development, of the shale oil industry and has already invested £500,000 in that project, it should also be interested in the welfare of the people employed there. 
Some are engaged on constructional work, but I believe that the majority remain there for a considerable time. A fine hostel has been provided for the visitors. Accommodation is available for the staff, the engineers and the officers, but not a brick has been laid for the purpose of providing homes for the workmen. These men are still living in hessian and canvas tents. 
Too much delay has taken place in this regard. Tho workers and their families are entitled to conditions similar to those enjoyed in other localities. 
The Government boasts that a high exemption from income tax is provided for persons in receipt of the lower incomes, but this exemption is not of material benefit to the workers. It should be borne in mind that, in New South Wales, the workers pay the unemployment relief tax, which affects men on incomes lower than £400 a year. 'The unemployment relief and social service tax amounts of £2 3s. 4d. in respect of an income of £104 a year, and £6 17s. 4d. in respect of an income of £208 a year. In Queensland persons in receipt of incomes within that range contribute no such tax. 
The following figures may be of interest to honorable senators :  - 

<graphic href="163332194005293_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is often said that good work is being done by the Queensland Government, but that the taxes levied on the people are heavy. My reply is that the workers in Queensland benefit from the taxes levied by the Government of that State, because the national relief scheme provides them with full-time rates and conditions when they are unemployed, whereas the dole is still in operation in New South Wales, where relief works are to be curtailed at the dictation of the Loan Council. I admit that all money necessary for war purposes must be found, but something should be done to relieve the unemployed. The attitude of the Loan Council will intensify unemployment in New South Wales. The Commonwealth Government promised that the proposed defence expenditure would give increased employment, but that result has not been realized in New South Wales, where the unemployment problem is as acute as ever. 
Last November, according to a ministerial statement, seven men were engaged in the manufacture of arms and munitions in Victoria to every one so employed in New South Wales, and the yearly wages bill of thoseworkers was £1,872,000 in Victoria as against £234,000 in New South Wales. Even a charwoman in New South Wales pays income tax if she earns £104 a year, and her contribution is £2 3s. 4d. The deduction of £50 in respect of each child under the age of fifteen years has operated for a considerable time, but no reference has been made by the Government to the need for an extension of that exemption, in view of the increased cost of living. 
Last week, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  said that  Mr. Essington  Lewis had been appointed DirectorGeneral of Munitions. Synchronizing with his appointment, the hours of the men engaged in the small arms factory at Lithgow were increased on Monday last from eight hours a day to two twelve-hour shifts. I do not suggest that  Mr. Lewis  began work so quickly in his new job as to be responsible for that alteration. 
No. The introduction of the twelve-hour shift was brought about last week as the result of a conference between the trade union executives and the management of the factory. The executives agreed to recommend to the men that they should operate the two twelve-hour shifts on trial for two months. The conference took place last Wednesday, and, when a general meeting of the members was held later in the week, they unanimously decided to ask for three eight-hour shifts. Where there is a shortage of skilled tradesmen they do not object to men such as engineers and tool-makers being employed on two twelve-hour shifts. But there is a decided objection to shifts of twelve hours, particularly when there are so many unemployed men in Lithgow and in other parts of New South Wales. 
I am not dealing with the waterside workers ; I am discussing a subject with which I am conversant. The men are anxious that work at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory shall proceed with the utmost expedition ; but they are opposed to the introduction of a twelve-hour shift when so many men are unemployed. It may be said that men must have a certain degree of skill to operate some of the machines in the Small Arms Factory, but when the employees were endeavouring to secure an increase of wages through the Arbitration Court, the manager stated on oath that he could take men off the gates and train them to work the machines within two hour3. If that statement be correct there are many men in this country, who, because they possess some slight physical disability, cannot play ,their part in the defence of their country but could be economically and profitably employed. There is another aspect of the problem of increased production to which I wish to direct attention. I ask any honorable senator opposite who has had experience in manufacturing industries whether a man engaged on precision work for more than eight hours can be expected to render efficient service. It may bc said that the machine does all the work, but the duties of the operatives are tedious, because some have to attend to one operation for the full shift of eight hours. It would be futile of honorable senators opposite to claim that there would be greater production if two shifts of twelve hours were worked instead of three shifts of eight hours. I claim that a man operating these machines for eight hours must necessarily slow clown towards the end of the shift, although it would be contrary to his wishes to do so. In the last, four hours of a twelve-hour shift production would decrease. If three shifts of eight hours were worked the output would be greater, and work would be provided for mcn who are now unemployed. I have the names and addresses of 230 unemployed men in Lithgow. The list does not include youths from fifteen to eighteen years of agc who are not registered at the labour bureau. I do not suggest that every one of them has the capacity to work in a factory, but fully 60 per cent, have the ability and desire to do so. Many of them are now engaged on relief work. A few days ago I was approached by men proceeding to work on the Glen Davis road. They joined the train at midnight and would not reach their destination until 7 a.m.. Under the system in operation in New South Wales, they were compelled to join the train at the time mentioned, and, after travelling a certain distance, had to wait in the cold before boarding a bus to transport them to their destinations. 
No, because under the relief system they get only one or two weeks work in every month. In fairness to the New South Wales Government I should say that that disability has now been removed. 
The strong appeal now being made for men to join the colours is meeting with a noble response from Australian citizens. In New South Wales approximately 1,000 men have been offering daily, but there would be more contentment in the minds of the men who have offered their services if they knew that while they are on service in Australia or abroad their relatives would be provided with employment. As I stated earlier, men capable of military service must be physically fit, but others who possess minor physical defects should be employed in industry. I realize the tremendous task confronting the Government in the matter of defence, hut social development and adequate provision for the people must not be overlooked. No serious attempt has yet been made by the Government to provide employment for thousands of deserving persons. The Prime Minister has announced that the graving dock to be built in Sydney will take three years or more to complete; but. in view of the financial position and the amount of money required for defence works the wisdom of the project has been questioned. 
Yes. I mentioned earlier that there has been a great deal of adverse criticism, particularly in Now South Wales, with respect to the Department of Supply and Development. I was interested to hear last night of the proposed appointment of  Mr. Theodore,  an ex-Commonwealth Treasurer, to tho position of Co-ordinator of Commonwealth and State works. I am curious to know whether the proposed appointment is to be made, because of the adverse criticism levelled against the Government and particularly against the Department of Supply and Development during the last ten days.  Mr. Theodore  is the managing director of a newspaper which has criticized the Government very severely, and I trust that the Minister will state whether the appointment of that gentleman is in the nature of a compromise so that, the Government departments will not be criticized by the newspaper he controls. The Minister should also state whether a round robin was signed by those who object to the appointment, and if certain Ministers threatened to resign if the appointment were made. I understand that some Ministers telegraphed their disapproval to the Prime Minister when he was attending an important meeting in the Sydney Town Hall. 
The statement' appeared in the press, and as it was also announced from the national broadcasting stations, it should be authentic. 
I suppose that it would be. The Government must accept responsibility for that statement. Has this opposition been raised against  Mr. Theodore  because he has been associated with the Labour party in the past? Pleas have been made by Government supporters in both this chamber and the House of Representatives for the cooperation of all parties in the Government's war effort. We have been asked repeatedly to participate in the formation of a national government. Was  Mr. Theodore's  appointment to this position rescinded because of his affiliation with Labour in the past? 
If that be so, it. seems strange that bis appointment to so important a post should have been announced over the air and in the press. It. will be interesting to follow this matter to. its conclusion. The press criticism of the Government for its failure to expeditethe manufacture of armaments and munitions is fully justified. Over £2,000,000 has been spent on the erection of annexes, but only one of. the 25 annexes which have been completed, seven of which are situated in New South Wales, has yet commenced operations. The chaotic position which has been disclosed by the press has stirred the people of Australia, Business men, manufacturers, soldiers and every other section of the community are alarmed at the present state of affairs, and heartily commend the pre«s of New South Wales for the service it has rendered to this country in disclosing the facts. Up. to date, members of the Opposition have purposely refrained from exposing weaknesses in bur defence preparations. We have been silent in that respect, although, had we chosen to do so, we could have levelled very severe criticism against the Government. About four years ago the Government decided to manufacture Bren machine guns in Australia. The report of the Munitions Supply Board for the year ended the 30th June, 1937, states - 
A developmental programme, which is being considered, includes production  of the  new Uren light machine gun, which will involve the erection of a three-storey steel  and concrete  building, to bc an extension  of the  existing Vickers machine gun workshops. The plans have been completed, and on  approval  of the scheme an early commencement  can be  arranged. 
It was also reported that the manager of the Small Arms Factory,  Mr. A.  S. Ford, who had been in England since August, 1.936, in connexion with proposals for manufacturing the new light Bren machine gun in Australia, resumed duty in October, 1937. 
Tn its report for the succeeding twelve months the board stated- - 
The erection of the three -storey building for the production of the Bren light machine pun, to which reference was made in the last "report, has reached an advanced stage. The estimated cost of this extension to the existing machine gun workshops is £03,500. The development programme also includes the provision of a modern toolroom, and a commencement with t], is project has been made by removal of the Press machine section from the galvanized iron structure erected during the war and demolition of the building; 
Honorable senators will recall the visit we paid a couple of years ago to this building, when machinery was being installed in it. We now learn that in the meantime that machinery has been transferred to another building, despite thefact that the original building was specially designed as a factory for the manufacture of the Bren machine gun.  [Extension  of time granted.']  One doesnot wonder that the press of New South Wales condemns the Government for its ineptitude. I can only conclude that those responsible for the direction of this work have fallen down on their job. Remembering these facts, I was not surprised to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr.. 
Menzies) remark in the course of his speech in the Sydney Town Hall last night that, at one period, the people of this country were not taking the war seriously, but now fully realize the peril which is confronting the Empire and Australia. In my second-reading speech on the Supply and Development Bill I pointed out that we had in existence at that time the Munitions Supply Board, which had control of the manufacture of armaments and munitions under the Government's expanded scheme. I also emphasized the dangers which would arise from the Government's proposal to appoint additional authorities to control this work. I said that in such circumstances it was inevitable that difficulties resulting from duplication of control would arise, and would cause serious delays. However, the Government did not heed my warning. I find that the present personnel of the Munitions Supply Board does not include one practical man. The members of this body are:  Mr. A.  E. Leigh ton, who is a mining chemist; Messrs. J. K. Jonsen and W. Howie, who are accountants; and  Mr. A.  V. Smith, who is assistant secretary, Department of Defence. In view of the fact that not one of these officers is a practical man, is it any wonder that the government scheme is not meeting with success? The services of practical men must be engaged to direct this work. Adequate supplies of arms and munitions are most essential, because without them our soldiers will he ineffective, no matter how nobly they may respond to their country's call. 

 Sitting suspended from6.15 till8 p.m.. 

I repeat that more than £2,000,000 has been expended on the building of annexes, and that, so far as New South Wales, at least, is concerned, not one of them has yet commenced production. One of these annexes was built before the war on the Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited premises, at a cost of £60,000, but it has not yet manufactured a single unit, not even so much as a nut. The time has arrived when the Government should realize the vast expenditure that has been made on the erection of annexes, and see that production commences immediately. The adding of munitions annexes to private factories owned by wealthy friends of the Government was opposed by honorable members on this side of the chamber, because we thought that it would be much better if annexes were added to the government workshops in the various States. The time has come for definiteaction with regard to the operation of these annexes, and the manufacture of arms and munitions generally. I am not attempting to blame the Prime Minister or any individual Minister for what has taken place - I know that they have done their jobs to the best of their ability - but my complaint is that the right men are not directing these operations. I have already quoted from the report of the Munitions Supply Board, not one member of which is competent to direct the manufacture of arm and munitions. During the last war we had a similarexperience in New South Wales. Rifles were not being produced as quickly as was desired, and a man named McKay was brought from Walker Brothers organization at Maryborough, Queensland, and placed in charge of the factories. He was a practical man, and before long he had increased (production by 100 per cent., rifles here being produced at the rate of 1,000 and even 1,200, a week, instead of 500 a week. The same lag in production exists to-day, and the same acceleration will result if the right men are put in charge. The Prime Minister has announced that  Mr. Essington  Lewis has been appointed Director-General of Supply, and I presume that in that position he will be able to obtain the assistance of whosoever he wants. According to the Prime Minister,  Mr. Essington  Lewis has been placed in full control of the manufacture of munitions, and his job is to see that our war requirements are turned out in the shortest possible time. I realize the seriousness of the position with which we are facedto-day, and whilst I think that comment in the press may have been a little severe, the Government cannot absolve itself of all blame. It seems probable that those who have been directing our supply operations have not had sufficient experience. No matter what the cost may be, well-trained and competent men should be placed in charge of munition manufacture. In view of the position which has arisen in our munitions industries, particularly in New South Wales, I ask the Government to consider seriously the introduction of threeeight-hour shifts in all factories producing essential war requirements. I explainedthe necessity for the introduction of three shifts this afternoon, and I. now appeal to the Government to have something done so that the production may he speeded up. The workers in the government munitions establishments are as loyal as any other body of men in Australia, and are just as eager to do a good job as are the employees of the private munitions factories. However, they appreciate the unfortunate economic circumstances of their fellow men who are out of work. I have here a list containing 230 names; I do not claim that all of these men are capable of doing skilled work in factories, but at least 60 per cent, of them . are. They are good citizens and they are entitled to some consideration. I do not suggest for one moment that in skilled industries where there is a shortage of men, shifts should be confined to eight hours; the factories should be operating right round the clock. At a meeting held last week, the men agreed that it was desirable that where there was a shortage of skilled men in any section, twelve-hour shifts should be worked; but they also resolved to ask that three eight-hour shifts be introduced in other sections which arecapable of working them. If that be done, the whole industrywill benefit, production will be increased, and the men will be more satisfied. The operation of three shifts would mean employment for an additional 500 men. All these things should be considered, together with the fact that the desired level of production would he obtained, with a consequent benefit to the Government and to the people generally. This afternoon  Senator Dein  stressed the necessity for a national government, and referred to the action of the Labourparty in Great Britain, where a coalition government has been formed. The honorable senator omitted to mention, however, that the Labour party agreed to a national government in Great Britain at the direction of the trade unions. More than 2,000,000 trade union members were in favour of a national government, and only a few thousand were opposed to it. 
Although honorable senators opposite are urging the formation of a. national government,  Senator Dein  did his best this afternoon to make such a development impossible. Apparently,  Senator McBride  is assisting him. I am endeavouring to explain to honorable senators in a reasonable manner just what took place in Great Britain, where, as I have said, the Labour party agreed to join a national government at the direction of the trade unionists. There has been no such direction in Australia. If the Australian trade unionists decided to-morrow to instruct the Labour party to support a national government, the Opposition would readily collaborate with the parties now supporting the Ministry. On. the other hand,we came into this Parliament as a free Opposition, and we claim that up to the present we have assisted the Government in every possible way. I assure honorable senators opposite that had the nation not been at war, they would have heard much more from us. It cannot be claimed that there has been undue opposition or criticism from this side of the chamber. I am confident of that, and the subdued way in which honorable senators supporting the Government have received my statement supports my contention. 
When the time arrives for me to make a decision as to whether I should recommend a national government, I shall answer that question, but, until I am placed in thatposi- tion, it would not he fair for me to commit myself or my party. 
I am not. 
I expressed one this afternoon which, apparently, was not very satisfactory to  Senator Dein,  and I suggest that he would do well to keep quiet. 
In the course ofhis speech,  Senator Dein  went to great trouble to explain the relationship between the Communists and the Labour party, and he mentioned something that had happened in connexion with his candidature at the 1934 elections. The honorable senator apparently knows well the number of votes polled by the Communist candidates on that occasion; in fact, honorable senators opposite seem to know all about the Communists. However,  Senator Dein  forgot to mention one incident in connexion with elections. I recall the incident well because it happened in the town in which I lived. At the 1935 elections for the New South Wales Parliament, which followed closely on the federal elections, the Communist candidate for the electoral division of Hartley was a man namedCramm. The " How to Vote " instructions published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by the United  Australia  party recommended that Cramm be given No. 1 vote in preference to the Labour candidate,  Mr. Hamilton  Knight, M.L.A., who was to be given the No. 2 vote. When  Senator Dein  endeavours to connect me with the Communist party, he is merely endeavouring to make (political capital,because he will be my opponent at the next election. It is known that the gentleman who has been selected to contest the next Senate election as  Senator Dein's  colleague is a Nazi man. 
Captain Patrick, the gentleman to whom I allude, entertained von. Luckner when he visited Australia some years ago. 
Order! The honorable senator should not say that. 
A few days ago I noticed a statement in the press that the Government would have to provide buildings to carry on some of its defence activities. The Lithgow Council has advised me that a large pavilion in the recreation, ground at Lithgow, having a total area of 8,400 square feet, will be made available if it is needed. The Government would be well advised to accept the offer. I understand that some adjoining buildings also could be utilized if required. 
I repeat what I said earlier in my remarks that honorable senators on this side will do all that is possible to aid the Government in its  Avar  effort. Speaking for myself, I am willing to act in any capacity if the Government cares to call upon me.  Senator Dein  has not a monopoly of patriotism in this chamber. Honorable senators on this side are just as anxious as he is to help the Government in this crisis. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cooper)  adjourned. 
I have had an opportunity to examine the hill since the Minister delivered his secondreading speech this afternoon, and as its purpose is to remedy certain anomalies in the act and generally to improve it, the Opposition is prepared to facilitate its passage. When the bill is in committee it is our intention to direct attention to a number of matters which we hope will have favorable consideration. 
.- The Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  have told us that this measure is designed to remedy certain anomalies existing in the present Post and Telegraph Rates Act. It will really perpetuate one of the greatest anomalies. The telegraph system in Australia is an extraordinarily well managed business. During my term as Postmaster-General, many years ago, the department showed a loss of £250,000 a year. My successor  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, was able to convert that loss into a profit of £250,000 a year. I would point out also, that during the time that I was administering the department meteorological telegrams to a value of £75,000 were despatched free of charge. Credit for that service was not given to the telegraph branch. This bill does not go far enough. The Post and Telegraph Rates Act should be repealed. I doubt that any one can say why the anomalies contained in the act are allowed to continue. We have an excellent telephone system which, after meeting Interest and sinking fund charges shows a profit of £1,500,000 a year. That result is achieved by good management. 
I do not agree. One hears very few complaints about telephone rates in Australia. If a telephone rates bill were introduced the Minister would not get it through this Parliament in twelve months. When I took over the administration of the department in 1923, the telephone branch of the department was controlled under regulations which provided for charges according to the actual mileage of wire. That meant that if a subscriber sent a message to another subscriber ten miles distant, and if in the absence of a direct line the actual distance of wires was 100 miles, the charge was made according to that distance, instead of for a ten mile radius. Because there was no specific provision in the act relating to that aspect of the department's business, I was enabled to inaugurate the radial system with the result that the charges for a telephone conversation were fixed according to the actual distance between subscribers. Thus, if a person spoke from a northern suburb of Melbourne to another subscriber in the southern portion of the city, the charge would be l1/4d. The system of telegram changes is different; although a person may despatch a telegram to another person ten miles distant, there is the fee of11/4d. for the telephone message, and 9d. for the telegram, although the whole of the transaction may be carried out by telephone. There are few telegraph transmitting offices in our capital cities or, for that matter, in many provincial centres throughout Australia. The majority of telegraph messages arc transmitted by telephone, but there is the anomaly that, whilst a telephone conversation between two points in a metropolitan area may be only l1/4d., the telegraph rate for the same area is101/4d. although, as I have shown, . the whole of the business may be done by telephone. The message at both sending and receiving endsis under regulations, but in the middle - the telegraph office - it is under act of Parliament. The Post and Telegraph Rates Act should be repealed. I made an attempt to do so, but was unsuccessful because the act  contains provision for the transmission ' of press telegrams at the rate of 50 words for 2s., which of course, is much below the actual cost involved. This is a valuable concession to the newspapers. Naturally, when newspaper proprietors learned that I was contemplating a repeal of the act, they got busy and I had to drop the bill. That is one reason why I was unable to abolish the anomaly of inter-State charges for telegrams between border towns such as Albury and Wodonga. More than half of the telegraph messages in Australia are transmitted over the telephone system, and therefore are not telegrams in the true sense of the word. There are similar anomalies in postal rates, which, in certain respects are controlled under agreements made at international conventions from time to time. The convention fixes minimum rates to be charged, but there is no provision, so far as I am aware, fixing the rates for mails carried by air. The Auditor-General has directedattention to these anomalies from time to time. I said that, if anybody challenged them, the matter would not he accepted for transport by air. The Government should have asked the Parliament to repeal the act relating to post and telegraph rates, and to conduct the service on the same lies as the telephone service. 
This measure provides for a uniform telegraph rate throughout Australia of1s. for a telegram of fourteen words. In the States 1s. 2d. will be charged for a message of sixteen words instead of1s.,  as  to-day; but, taking a broad view of the matter I think that the measure will prove of great advantage, and I congratulate the Government upon its introduction. It seems remarkable that the telegraph branch will gain about £52,000 a year through the reduction of the shilling telegram within a State from sixteen to fourteen words. In addition, concessions are to be given on after-hours, holidays, and border telegrams. I am pleased that a concession in respect of border messages is to be made. I have always regarded it as an anomaly that, in sending a telegram a few miles across a border from one State to another, the interstate rate of1s. 4d. has applied. These concession will cost the Government from £20,000 to £35,000 a year. Putting the cost at £25,000, the department will still show a profit of £27,000 a year from the operation of this measure. The public will gain, because the benefits outlined in the bill will much outweigh the one disadvantage of allowing only fourteen words, instead of sixteen in respect of intranstate telegrams. 
I was interested in  Senator Gibson's  remarks. I recall the excellent work done by him in the interests of country communities, when he was PostmasterGeneral, particularly in the direction of giving Australia substantially reduced telephone rates. At the same time, I regret that this bill does not go a good deal further. It provides for a universal telegraph rate throughout Australia, but, as  Senator Gibson  told us most telegrams are sent over the telephone system in the country areas.  His  remarks, coupled with the public demand, make out an unanswerable case for much lower telephone rates. It is wrong to charge a person who lives 200 miles from a capital city a much higher rate for telephone calls to the city than a person who lives only 100 miles away. It is now proposed to enable the public, at a flat rate of1s., to send telegrams from Perth to Thursday Island, or from Wyndham to Melbourne. A zone system should apply to trunk telephone calls. 
That is another matter. This Parliament does not control the railways. During the period when I was in the Western Australian Parliament, I always advocated, and to some degree the government of Western Australia has adopted, a zone system with regard to railway rates. 
War conditions, of course, make it difficult for the Government to give further concessions to the public, but in view of the. profit of £1,500,000 made by the Telephone Department last year, as soon as times become normal, I hope that the telephone rates will be substantially reduced somewhat on the lines now proposed in regard to the telegraph charges. Cheaper rates for long distance calls are particularly desirable. As an ex-Postmaster-General has told us that a great many telegrams are sent over the telephone system, the present action of the Government with regard to telegraph charges should be followed by much reduced telephone charges, particularly in connexion with country services and the provision of further facilities in country districts. 
Some interesting admissions have been made in this debate. An ex-Postmaster-General has informed us that the telephone branch is showing the huge profit of £1,500,000 per annum.  I  understand that not all the money required for new services is taken out of revenue. Some of the money used for this purpose is taken from loan funds, and the people are called upon to pay additional taxes to meet the interest charges and to provide additional revenue in order to recoup the Government. The profits of the Post Office, including the £250,000 a year which is made in the tele-: graphs branch, are paid in to the Treasury. The people are being indirectly taxed. As the Post Office is showing an enormous profit, one would expect that the public would receive in return a reduction of charges.  I  know that the bill under consideration provides for certain reductions, hence the popularity of the measure; but the people should be made aware of the fact that the Post Office is a huge and growing machine that imposes indirect taxes on them. When a favorable opportunity presents itself, the whole of the Postal Department should be reviewed. A great deal of postal revenue is obtained from business undertakings which post huge numbers of circulars for advertising purposes, and the expenditure thus incurred by them is added to the cost of commodities, and so is borne by the community. Therefore, the Parliament must eventually give serious consideration to the growth of this octopus-like department. 

 Senator A. J. MCLACHLAN (South 
Australia) [8.41].  -  Senator Cunningham  has said that the profits of the Post Office will have to be considered, and that the whole system must be- reviewed. The profits of the Post Office may seem large, and, to some honorable senators, extraordinarily large, but owing to the advance of scientific research, and the important work that the Post Office is doing, with its huge assets aggregating in value between £40,000,000 and £50,000,000, we should give pause before we lightly embark upon any reduction of the charges made by this department. Something might occur overnight, as it did a short time ago, that would render millions of pounds' worth of wires and technical equipment almost valueless. When Marconi invented wireless telegraphy, one could see what Was likely to happen. It is prudent for any government, which has a sense of financial responsibility, to see that provision is made, out of the earnings of the various branches of the Post Office, for the installation, from time to time, of necessary improvements.  Senator Cunningham  is right in saying that the profits of the Post Office have to be paid into revenue. This is done in accordance with section 81 of the Constitution ; but much of the revenue goes back to the department. It is largely a matter of bookkeeping. During the last year in which I was PostmasterGeneral, £1,500,000 was returned to the department out of its profits. I rose to sound a note of warning. We need to have a deep sense of responsibility in this matter. If prudence of the kind practised in connexion with the Post Office had been adopted with regard to the railway systems of Australia, the sum of £300,000,000 which the taxpayers are carrying on their shoulders to-day on account of the railways would have been greatly reduced, and much of the expenditure that has been incurred would have been obviated. The provision for the transmission of news telegrams to broadcasting stations at the rate now prescribed for press telegrams will be of benefit to the whole community. The rapid transmission of news is of great importance, particularly at the present juncture, and the concession proposed to be afforded should assist in that direction.  I  commend the Government for removing certain anomalies, but there are many others which also should be removed. 
 This measure, which is to confer concessions upon those who use certain services provided by the Postal 
Department, appears to be very popular ; but improved facilities, particularly in the country areas, are more essential than a reduction of existing rates. 
SenatorCOURTICE.-  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, who is an ex-Postmaster General, said that the department must not proceed too rapidly with the granting of concessions because of the possibility of improved devices being introduced which would render obsolete those now in use and necessitate heavy additional expenditure. ' I trust that that is not the angle from which the Government proposes to ' view the activities of this department. Improved telephone facilities are of tremendous importance, particularly in Australia, many parts of which are still awaiting development, in consequence of the absence of means of transport and communication. It would be much better to improve the facilities in country districts than to grant further concessions to those living in the more closely populated areas. For some years the Postal Department has shown a huge surplus, and, although a portion of its profits are used to provide replacements, some of the excess revenue should be used to extend existing services and to provide telephone equipment in remote parts of the country. If that were done development would increase and a greater number would be induced to remain on the land, thus encouraging decentralization. Apparently, the Government is not considering that aspect of the matter to the degree that it should, and representatives of the Country party in this chamber, who have welcomed the proposed reductions, should advocate increased facilities which they know are necessary. In various parts of Queensland and also in other States the people are unable to use the telephone service owing to the absence of the necesary facilities or because the rates charged are excessive. Surely the department should not decline to install a telephone service because it would be unprofitable. If railways were not constructed until they could be conducted at a profit there would be very little development in country areas.  I  trust that infuture the Government will give more consideration to the necessityto increase existing facilities than to a reduction of rates. 
 As the capital employed to install postal, telegraph and telephonic facilities has to be provided by the people, many of whom are unable to derive much benefit from the services provided, the Postal Department is really a taxing machine. At present the Postal Department refuses to erect public telephones on sites provided by the local governing authorities unless it is guaranteed against loss. In Western Australia numerous representations have been made for the provision of public telephones; but in every instance the department has asked to be indemnified against loss. I trust that in future the amount of the guarantee now sought will be reduced, so that those living in remote areas will have the benefits now enjoyed by persons in more closely populated centres.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan advised caution in respect of concessions affecting postal revenue, because of the possibility of new developments in the means of communication ; but such a contingency should be considered when it arises. Should additional expenditure be necessary, it will be provided by the community. If the national broadcasting service were under the control of private enterprise, the cost to the public would be much greater than at present. In view of the fact that the profits now made by the department are paid into Consolidated Revenue, greater consideration should be shown to those who have not the means to install telephones, by providing public telephones at a more reasonable cost. 
.- I congratulate the Government upon having introduced this measure, which provides certain concessions that will benefit the people. For many years the Postal Department has been criticized because of the profits it has made; but I am always willing to applaud any government instrumentality which is rendering a service to the public. It has always been the policy of the Australian Labour party to advocate public ownership of such utilities as the Postal Department, and as it is anticipated that additional revenue will be obtained under reduced  rates, the department is being conducted very efficiently, and at a cost much  lower  than would be the case if it were controlled by private enterprise. I agree with  Senator Courtice  that some of the profits should be used to improve existing services, particularly by means of wireless telephony to the outback areas. A portion should also be expended on improving the existing telegraphic and telephonic systems in the remote parts of the Commonwealth. There is no reason why a privileged section of the community should be able to transmit telegrams at still lower rates, whilst other sections do not receive any benefit at all. 
I congratulate the Postal Department upon the excellent work it has done for a number of years, but it is unfair for an honorable senator opposite to say that members of the Country party had supported the bill because a reduction of rates is proposed, and had not shown  any  sympathy towards those living in country districts. A. member of the Country party who represents one of the largest electorates in Australia had not been its representative long before lie became known as telephone '"' Jimmy " because of his success in getting th( Postal Department to provide increased telephone facilities in many parts of his electorate. It has always been the pleasant duty of members of the Country party to urge the provision of improved telegraphic and telephonic facilities in the rural areas. Many telephone services provided in country districts are not likely to pay operating costs for many years. 
I do not think any section of the community has sufficient telephone facilities. I am interested particularly in the requirements of the country areas.  Senator Courtice  was not justified in saying that Country party members welcomed this bill because it provides for a reduction of rates and disregarded entirely the claims of residents in rural districts. I resent that statement. If honorable senators opposite endeavoured as much as Country party members to secure these facilities, they would have .less ground for complaint.  
I do not know whether the honorable senator has made representations to the  Deputy  PostmasterGeneral in Queensland, but 1 assure him that that officer would give him a sympathetic hearing. 
I do not suggest that it does; but a sympathetic Deputy  Postmaster-General  can be of great assistance in this matter. I welcome the reduction of telegram rates. Whilst this concession will benefit city people most, it will also be of great assistance to residents in the country, many of whom arc using the telegraph office increasingly. It is estimated that the concessions given in this 'bill will be worth about £30,000, or a sum of £5,000 in respect of each State. I doubt whether with that amount telephonic services could be extended to many country areas. I strongly support  Senator Courtice's  request that greater facilities should be provided in remote districts. The 'Country party has always fought for such facilities and will continue to do so, so long as it has a representative in this Parliament. At the same time, however, it would be unfair to deny to the department credit for the excellent work it is doing. Our telephonic services are improving year by year, and the rates are gradually being reduced. I commend the Government for having introduced this measure. 
I join with other honorable senators in urging the Government to provide greater and cheaper telephonic facilities in country areas. Country tele; phone users  par capita  make a very substantial contribution towards the department's annual profit. They must, first, guarantee part of the cost of construction of new lines. Then they are at a great disadvantage compared with city telephone users in that they are obliged in many places to pay an opening fee if they wish to make a call after 6 p.m. Sometimes an individual subscriber has to pay two opening fees in respect of the one call. It is evident from past experience that the department is amply compensated by an increase of revenue for expenditure incurred in the extension of telephonic services. Not so many years ago the telephone was generally regarded as a luxury. To-day it is an essential amenity in outback areas. Newcomers to a district usually endeavour to settle in a spot which is convenient to thelocal school, but their next consideration is whether a telephonic service is available, because they always bear in mind the importance of a telephone in case of emergency. When illness suddenly occurs in the home, their first thought is to secure medical assistance. To-day, however, as a result of rapid motor transport, the tendency is for medical practitioners to converge towards populous centres where they can build up sound practices within comparatively small areas. Consequently, the necessity for telephonic services in remote districts is increasing. 
With the regard to the reduction of telegram rates, I urge that some concession be made in respect of the address. If the telegram is being sent to a small country town the address takes very few words, but when the addressee resides in a city, or a town, the address required is considerably longer. The name of the addressee usually accounts for three words, the number and street for three more words, the name of the town makes a seventh word. With a limit of fourteen words for messages at the minimum rate, this means that half of the wording is taken up in addressing the telegram. I suggest that it might be possible to count the address as five words, even when it exceeds that number. 
I support the measure because, first, it removes certain anomalies, and, secondly, it reduces telegraphic and telephonic rates. In spite of these reductions, however, I am of opinion that telephonic charges are far too high. The annual ground rent of £4 10s. is excessive. I have no complaint to make with respect to the charge of l1/4d. a call; but the ground rent is a stumbling block to many people who would like to install the telephone, which is one of the greatest con veniences science has given to us. If this charge were reduced many more people could afford to become subscribers. The rent is out of all- proportion to the charge of a11/4d. a call. Rather than encourage installations in this way, however, the department seems to prefer to provide public telephones at street corners, and to charge 2d. a call for the use of them. Many people who now use public telephones a few times a week would be induced to install a telephone if the ground rent were considerably reduced. 
That is so; and, perhaps, the country subscriber is entitled to a greater measure of relief than the city subscriber, because we should offer facilities of this kind in order to encourage settlement in more remote areas. In 1933, when I was a member of the House of Representatives, I urged that the annual ground rent which was then £5 10s., should be reduced, even if such a concession necessitated an increase of the rate for each call. That matter was taken up by the department, and subsequently a sliding scale of charges, under which the rate was reduced for calls in excess of a certain number was introduced. Later, this concession rate was adopted as the flat rate; but the ground rent remained at £4 10s. If the department were sufficiently courageous to reduce the ground rent thousands of middle-class people would become subscribers, and the department's revenue would be increased considerably. 
I suggest to the Government that some of the additional revenue which will be raised by this bill could be expended in improving the telegraph line between Wyalong, Marsden and Forbes. Recently I travelled along the road between those towns, and the state of the telegraph line was a disgrace. In some cases the poles were leaning at an angle of 45 degrees, and were propped up by rotten dead trees. I cannot understand how the people of these districts are able to send telegrams at all. 
Another matter with which I shall deal is the telegraph service at military camps. Recently the father and mother of a hoy who was in camp at Ingleburn, and was about to depart overseas with the Australian Imperial. Force, communicated with me and asked me to send a telegram to the boy stating that they were coming to Sydney to see him before he left. The parents travelled a long way to Sydney in order to see their son for the last time before he left Australia, but the telegram did not reach the boy. I received a reply from the postal authorities saying that it was regretted that the addressee was unknown, and that the address was insufficient as the regimental number had not been given. That state of affairs is a disgrace to the nation. The boy to whom I sent the telegram was in camp all the time. I suggest that some of the revenue to be derived under this measure should be so expended that telegrams sent to soldiers will be sure of delivery. 
I am dealing now withthe expenditure of the money which will be raised as a result of this measure. I urge that the telegraph service at military camps be improved so that boys who are about to leave Australia for service abroad will be sure of receiving telegrams, and that " brass hats " will not be able to claim that an address is insufficient. It might be possible to establish a card index system in the military camps so that soldiers may he speedily located, whatever the unit they are serving with. 
There is not the slightest danger of reduction of these telegram rates affecting the extension by the Postal Department of postal facilities to country subscribers. I welcome this bill; it has taken quite a long while to come before the Senate - years in fact - but I commend the Government for it. I am particularly pleased that the anomaly in connexion with border telegrams has been eliminated. The Postal Department does not as a rule relinquish revenue readily, and I am of the opinion that the reductions of these telegraph rates i.? really a sprat to catch a mackerel, because the1s. telegram will bepopularand the department will make a greater profit still. It is not a magnanimous gesture on the part of the Postal Department, because I do not think that it will lose any revenue by what it is doing. 
Much is said about the profits of the Postal Department, but they are usually grossly exaggerated. The largest client of the Postal Department is the Commonwealth Government itself, and the next largest clients are the State Governments. To believe that the carriage of mail matter or the transmission of telegraph or telephone messages between Government institutions is a profit-making business, is only to delude oneself. Actually there is no profit in inter-governmental business, and the Postmaster-General would be well advised if Government revenues were not included in the Postal Department's financial statement. Their inclusion only invites claims from the commercial community or the press for reduced charges all over Australia. It is time that the Postmaster-General took stock of his own department, and gave to the public of Australia a true statement of the actual profit which the post office makes in this country. 

 . - in reply - I appreciate the very generous support which has been given by honorable senators to this bill, but I was rather surprised at the qualifications which they attach to that support. I think that you,  Mr. President,  have been extremely generous in the latitude which you have allowed in the debate on a measure which actually deals only with telegraph rates and has no reference whatever to telephones. Honorable senators are labouring under a misapprehension if they believe that the Postal Department shows a huge profit and that, therefore, all kinds of reductions of telegraph rates should be made. For the information of honorable senators, I point out that during the ten years from 1923-24 to 1933-34 the telegraphs branch lost aproximately £2,500,000. From the year 1934-35 until the present, it has made a profit of approximately £250,000, leaving a net loss of £2,250,000 since 1923-24. 
The period from 1923-24 to 1928-29 can hardly be regarded as depression years. In fact, in that period occurred the greatest boom in the history of Australia; yet the Postal Department lost more than £1,000,000. As I pointed out in my second-reading speech, telegraph rates in Australia are lower than they are in Great Britain and New Zealand, and are very much lower than they are in the United States of America. I do not think that sufficient credit is given to the postal administration which has built up one of the most efficient services of its kind in the world. 

 Senator Herbert Hays complained about the number of words taken up in each telegram by the address, and made certain suggestions in order that that expense might be reduced. I point out, however, that under an international convention, it is compulsory that all words used in an address be charged for as separate words. The Postal Department is therefore unable to alter the existing system without infringing the international agreement. 
Telephone services were mentioned in a way which implied that the Government was very remiss in dealing with this important part of the postal service. For instance,  Senator Courtice  urged a greater drive in the extension of telephone facilities. The Government agrees that every possible service should be given to people in country areas, but it is entirely wrong to say that the department is slowing down, or lying down, on its job in this connexion. During the year 1938-39, which was a record one so far as the installation of handset telephones is concerned, 68,036 installations were effected. I mention this fact, so that honorable senators may not be under a misapprehension with regard to the. activities of the Postal Department. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (The schedule). 
.- I strongly urge that more privacy be observed in the sending of telegrams. Telegrams lodged at country or suburban offices are sent by telephone to central offices for transmission.When these telegrams are being telephoned, anybody who happens to be in the sending office can hear the contents. Recently a very important private telegram came to me, and a girl who happened to be in the office at the time came to my home and told my wife what was in the telegram before it was actually delivered. There should be a box from which the postmaster or postmistress could telephone telegrams without their contents being made known to every body in the office. Another undesirable feature of the lack of privacy in sending telegrams is in connexion with post offices run by local business people. A serious complaint was made to me not long ago from a mining town. It appears that the mining company called for tenders for the supply of a large number of batteries. The local postmaster was also a business man, and when his opponents telegraphed their quotations he was able to undercut them. Another matter that should receive attention is the sending of telegrams during hours when post offices are closed. In many country towns in Tasmania the local post office is closed from 12 noon to 2 p.m. or from 1. p.m. to 2 p.m., and in the absence of any facility for sending telegrams, much inconvenience is sometimes caused. It should be possible, during hours when the local post office is closed, for persons wishing to send telegrams to transmit them by telephone to a central receiving office. I hope that the Minister will give consideration to the several matters which I have mentioned. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill is designed to grant a reduction of rates on telegrams for transmission to or from members of the forces within the Commonwealth. The new rates for an ordinary telegram will be fourteen words for 6d. and each additional two words1d. Urgent telegrams will be accepted at fourteen words for ls. and each additional word1d. There will be no extra charge for telegrams lodged after hours, on Sundays, Christmas Days or Good Fridays, and the rates mentioned will apply throughout the Commonwealth, horder rates and interstate rates being abolished under the bill just passed. Further concessions are granted in the schedule sotting out the charges for mails and parcels to and from members of the forces. These concessions apply overseas as well as within the Commonwealth. Letters and letter-cards, postcards, printed matter, merchandise, books, periodicals and newspapers will be carried at half rates, or double the weight for the existing rate. For instance, letters and letter-cards will be carried at 1 oz. for1d. instead of 1. oz. for 2d. Postcards will be reduced from 11/2d. each to 1d., and books and newspapers will be carried at 12 oz. for1d. instead of the old rate of 6 oz. for1d. The new rates for parcels to or from members of the Defence Forces will commence at 1 lb. for Gd. and rise on a graduated scale to 11 lb. for ls. 9d., whereas the present rate is 11 lb. for 3s. 
I am sure that all honorable senators will support the bill, its purpose being to grant concessions to Australians who are serving in defence of this country. It is only right that they should have every consideration at the hands of this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Rates for telegrams). 
Can the Minister inform me what will be the rates for the transmission of telegrams to members of our fighting services when they are outside the Commonwealth? 
That being so, the clause might go a little further. No one wants to he unreasonable. We appreciate the action of the Government in bringing down this bill, but I think that it would be helpful and in accordance with the spirit of the times if the Government could see its way clear to make a reduction of the charges for telegrams to and from members of the fighting services in Palestine or in any other theatre of war to which they may be sent. 
Every telegram sent overseas becomes a cable. Any alteration of the charge would necessitate an arrangement between the Commonwealth Government and the cable companies. However,I shall give consideration to the suggestion of the honorable senator. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (The schedule). 
I am surprised that no provision is made in the schedule for a reduction of charges in respect of letters sent by air to or from members of our forces overseas. We have just been informed that there is to be no reduction of the rate for cablegrams, but I think the Government might make some concession in respect of air mail letters. The existing rate is ls. 6d. a half oz. 
The suggestion made by the honorable senator will be considered. I would, however, point out that at the present time all planes are heavily laden with mail matter, and. if any reduction of the air mail letter rate were made for the defence forces, additional space would have to be provided in planes. 
A concession in respect of air mail would be much appreciated by  the mothers, fathers and friends of the men. in our fighting services. Perhaps it would be possible to limit the weight of letters to be carried at a concession rate. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time, 
Will the Assistant Minister for Commerce state whether any decision has been reached by the Government, in conjunction with the Australian Wheat Board, in respect of an advance or a final payment to the wheatgrowers of Australia ? 
That matter is nowunder the consideration of the Government. 
Will the Leader of theSenate obtain and give to the Senate information as to the names of aliens who have been interned since the outbreak of the war, and who have subsequently been released, giving all particulars as to the reasons for and conditions of their release? 
I shall make inquiriesinto the matter and give a reply to the honorable senator to-morrow. 
Will the Minister for the Interior state when the Government intends to take swift and effective action to round up all Nazis and Nazi sympathizers in Australia, and place them in internment camps? 
Action in regard to such persons is constantly being taken. The matter is under the close attention of the Government at the present time. 
Will the Assistant Minister for Commerce state whether, with the object of preventing waste in the apple and pear crop nest season, the Government will place before the conference to be held in June, on the apple and pear acquisition scheme, a proposal to allow State-aided hospitals to collect at their own expense, from the growers in the various States, apples and pears that are not required by the Apple and Pear Board ? 
I shall bring the honorable senator's suggestion before the Minister for Commerce for his consideration. 
Can the Minister for the Interior give to the Senate any information in respect, of the report in the press with regard to bringing children from Great Britain to Australia? 
That matter is now under the consideration of the Government. Certain communications in connexion with it are passing between the Governments of Great Britain and the Commonwealth. Considerable public feeling has been aroused in regard to the proposal, judging by the amount of correspondence that honorable senators are receiving about it; but it presents many difficulties, owing to the distance that these children would have to travel, and the shortage of shipping. I am quite sure that the desire of the Government, and of the people generally, is to do all that they can to help in this matter, and so soon as further information is available as to the practicability of undertaking a scheme of this kind, I shall make it known to the Senate. 
Has any complaint been received by the Minister for the Interior on account of the delay experienced in obtaining berths on iiic cast-west transcontinental railway?  H  so, lias consideration been given to 1 he desirability of adding another train weekly (o the service? 
No complaint has l,een  made  to me directly, but. I shall communicate with the Commissioner for Railways, and ascertain if extra  accommodation  is required. 
On the 24th May,  Senator Cunningham  asked the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is it « fact that Western Australian  timber  interests refuse to tender for the supply of  jarrah  piles for Common wealth works? 
Is it a fact that Western Australian timber merchants and saw-millers show a reluctance to tender for  jarrah  planking and structural timber for Commonwealth requirements V 
If so, will the Minister supply the reasons? 
I am no,v in a position to supply the following information: - 
No tender was received from Western Australia for the supply of approximately 310 52-ft. and 34-ft. jarrah piles for the Commonwealth Railways. Tenders closed on the 15th March, 1040. 
After the closing of tenders for the piles, special representations were made by tha Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to the Conservator of Forests, Western Australia, who advised that he regretted piles could not bc supplied, due to the necessity for conserving for State requirements the long piles immediately available. 
Jarrah  planking and structural timber was offered by four Western Australian firms in response to tenders invited in April, 1940! for supplies running into sonic thousands of pounds. 
See answers to 1 and 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce.  upon, notice - 
Is  it a  fact,  us reported in the press, that tenders for flax fibre and tow have been dealt with? 
If so. will lie state iiic; price nml thu terms of the m tract 
If not, will the Minister forward an answer to the above questions us soon at&lt; such tenders are dealt with? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : -  1, 2 and 3. Only one tender was. received for supply of flax fibre and tow. A satisfactory contract is now in process of preparation and ii full statement of terms and conditions will be made as soon as the necessary formalities have been completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to " tune in " with Great Britain and invite Parliament to pass legislation on the lines of the hill introduced in the House of Commons by  Major Attlee,  Leader of the British Labour party, and passed, which places the whole of the resources of Great Britain at the disposal of the nation? 
Is it a fact that the Government of New Zealand has decided to pass a similar bill; also that Canada is considering a similar measure? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : - 
The Government is giving consideration to every possible line of action which may result in the contribution of the whole of Australia's resources to our war effort. 
No official advice has been received of the action indicated by the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What are the names of the so-called 'major oil companies"!1 
Where are they incorporated? 
In what countries are the majority of st,K:ks owned ? 
What are the names of the independent oil companies? :&gt;. fu what countries are they incorporated? fi. fu what country are the majority of stocks owned ? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied 
Hie  following answers to the honorable senn tor's questions: - 
The term " major oil companies" is generally applied to the group of companies comprising the Shell Company of Australia Limited. Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, 
Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Limited, Atlantic Union Oil Company Limited, and Texas Company (Australasia) Limited. 
The place of incorporation of each com'pany is - Shell Company of Australia Limited, Great Britain; Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, Australia; Vacuum Oil Company Proprietary Limited, Australia; Atlantic Union Oil Company Limited, Australia; and Texas Company (Australasia) Limited, Australia. 
My department has no knowledge as to where and by whom the shares of those companies, with the exception of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, are held. In the case of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited, the shares are held by the Commonwealth Government in Australia and by the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company Limited in England, the former holding one share more than half pf the total shares. 
The larger independent oil companies which co-operate with my department arc: H. C. Sleigh. The Alba Petroleum Company of Australia Proprietary Limited, Australian Motorists Petrol Company Limited, Independent Oil Industries, Proprietary Limited and The Pacific Oil Company. 
Each of these companies is incorporated in Australia. fi. My department lias no knowledge as to where or by whom the shares in those companies are held. 
The Minister for Supply and Development has furnished the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
As far as is known, magnesium is not being produced commercially in Australia, but efforts have been made for some considerable time to establish the industry in Tasmania. 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
The number of employees as at the 30th April, 1040, was 10,737. Weekly wages bill (first week in May, 1940), £50,400. These figures exclude army and naval inspection staff at factories employed by the Departments of  the Army  and the Navy respectively. 
 by leave  - read the statement made in the House of Representativesby the Minister for Supply and Development  (vide page  1560). 
. The financial statement which was presented by the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  in the House of Representatives on the 2nd May outlines the Government's proposal to spend the sum of £125,000,000 during this year and next year in connexion with its war preparations. A portion of this amount has already been expended. Since the statement was presented to Parliament very grave events have occurred overseas. Germany has overrun Holland and Belgium and invaded Prance. In order to assist the Allies to withstand the present menace it is likely that the people of Australia will be called upon during the forthcoming year to provide a great deal more than has been indicated in the financial statement. Even at this moment British and French forces in Flanders are fighting for their very existence, and it is not known whether they will be able to get away or be completely annihilated. The position has steadily grown more grave. From one hour to another we do not know exactly the balance of gains and losses by the Allies in the European conflict. Australia is a long way from the actual scene of war,  and  we have not the stimulusof war in our own country. We all hope that the horrors of war will not be brought to this land, but no one can say to-day to what extent the man-power and wealth of this nation will be called upon before victory is won. I am sure that the Australian people will play their part willingly and well, and will be with the Allies to the end. In his speech at the " Win the War " Rally in Sydney on Tuesday night, the Primp Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  said that we came from a race which did not surrender, and I think I am justified in claiming that we Australians, the progeny of that race, will live up to that high tradition, which was so faithfully upheld during the last war by the Australian Imperial Force. I am confident that, should the situation become even worse, and the threat of invasion hang over this country, every Australian man and woman will fight to the last, to maintain the freedom of this nation and the principles for which the British race has fought through the centuries. There is no doubt that " Australia will be there ",  and will do its best. It is the duty of every Australian to put forth, his or her best effort in order that the maximum service may be obtained from the wealth and man-power of this country. "Wealth wre have here in abundance ; the resources of Australia remain practically untapped, even after 100 years of settlement and industrial expansion. Although perhaps we have not actual gold in our banks, the natural resources of Australia can provide wealth untold. It is man-power of which we are short. Australia is a. very large country with a very small population, and we should make every effort to use our man-power to the fullest possible degree during the months or years of (struggle which we may have to face before victory is assured to us. We must not overlook any avenue by which the use of our man-power could be increased; neither must we overlook any useful suggestions that are made to that end. For some months past, representations have been made by various branches of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia tha.t exmembers of the Australian Imperial Force be organized in association with able-bodied men who are now too old to enlist, or who", owing to illness or physical deficiencies, have been unable to pass the rigid medical examination for entrance to the Australian Military Forces. These men would number roughly 150,000 to 200,000, and I am sure they would be only tpo pleased to give their services voluntarily to their country, providing they were given some semblance of recognized organization, and some facilities for training to fit themselves for any job they might be required to do. Very drastic changes have .been made in Great Britain during the last few weeks. Owing to the gravity of the situation there, men who were classed as unfit for active military service because they are above the age limit have been called upon to undergo training to fit them to meet, attack by parachute troops. There may not be the same danger in Australia, but the present conflict in Europe has changed so frequently and with such rapidity that no one can be sure of what may face us in the future even in this country. Therefore the Government would be well advised to take time by the fore- lock, and accept the services of men who are joining local defence corps in such large numbers and who desire to be officially recognized as an integral part of our defence organization. I have received a communication from the Townsville branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League impressing upon me their earnest wish to help Australia in this crisis. It is not the idea of those who join these local defence corps that they should be isolated bodies acting without military oversight. Their desire is to be definitely linked in some way with the defence forces, so that their services may be more readily available  and  more efficient. 
I agree with the remarks made recently by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  that it may not be advisable to have isolated organizations having no connexion with the defence forces springing up all over the Commonwealth. It is not suggested that these defence corps should be units of some free-lance organization. They claim tha t they should be recognized as part of our home defence system. The meeting at Townsville to further the objects of this movement was attended by about .100 ex-service men, and in the communication which was sent to me the purpose of the organization and qualifications for membership are clearly defined, thus - 
Objects. - The defence of out citizens, our homes and ourselves from aggression in any form. 
Membership. - Hie qualifications for membership shall be - 
loyal member of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia: 
citizens over or under military age; 
citizens of military age who have enlisted and been rejected for active service ; 
members of rifle clubs not otherwise on reserve. 
If the members of such local defence corps were properly organized and had official recognition, they could be of very material assistance to the Commonwealth Government. In north Queensland it would be quite easy to link them with the two militia battalions that are stationed, one at Townsville and one at Cairns. In a certain event the northern portion of Queensland could easily become the scene of disturbances. The country between Townsville and Cairns lias a large population of foreign mi' grants. The north is far away from centres where military forces are established. This being so, if the war should go definitely against Great Britain and our Allies, a force of loyal citizens having official standing as part of our home defence system might be needed very quickly to quell disturbances that might occur as the result of over-jubilant demonstrations among foreigners in northern Queensland. I know of no better means to ensure peace, in the circumstances I have indicated, than the encouragement of local defence corps. Its members need not be issued with uniforms, although the issue would be an advantage. In order to expedite the formation of this -force an arm or other badge could be issued which would ensure legal military standing in accordance with international law. I do not wish to labour this subject, because the movement has extended to nearly every capital city in the Commonwealth, and I am at a loss to understand why, to date, the military authorities have not taken action to fit local defence corps into the general scheme for home defence. If the military board cannot see its way clear to en-; courage this most laudable movement, I should say the time has come to consider changes in the personnel of the board, in order to make our defence system sufficiently elastic to embrace all bodies of loyal citizens . who may band themselves together for the purpose of defending this country. I would emphasize that time is the most important factor in the building up of any part of our home defence system. Events in Europe must surely have impressed our military authorities with the need for speedy decisions. Only n few weeks ago the British and French soldiers were strongly entrenched behind the Maginot line and the Belgian lines of defence and there was, I have no doubt, n confident belief that they would be able to stem the tide of the German invasion not 'for some weeks only, but for many months. But the lightning attack by immensely powerful German forces and the adoption of new methods of warfare have caused the allied command to reconsider their plans. It is clear that in order to ensure the success of the allied arms, we must meet the challenge and,, perhaps, adopt new methods. 
A great deal has been said about the shortage of mechanics in that most essential of our fighting services - the Air Force. The best pilots in the world would be useless without an adequate supply of trained mechanics to keep their machines in good flying order. We are told that Australia is short of air mechanics. I suggest that full use should be made of female labour. When I was on leave in Great Britain during the last war, I saw much of the work being done there by women and girls. The manufacture of shells, which was then a much more skilled job than it is at the present time, was being carried out almost entirely with female labour, although men were employed as heads of departments and supervisors. Parts of shells could be made in Australia  hy  women, and the semi-skilled men who are now doing thatwork could be released to attend technical schools in the various capitals in order to qualify as aircraft mechanics. Much of the work done in munition and other factories engaged in supplying defence equipment is done by means of lathes and could well be carried out with female labour. During the last war, most of the work on the land in Great Britain was done by women and that released men who were badly needed at that time to fill the ranks of the army overseas. Much of the transport work in England also was done by women. Increased efficiency could be obtained in Australia by the training of women for work now being carried on by men, thus relieving man-power for more importantwork. 
Our Light Horse troops include some of the finest soldiers to be found in the Commonwealth Military Forces, but their services .are not being utilized. Cavalry and other mounted regiments are rarely used in present-day warfare, mechanized units having taken their place. If there are not sufficient tanks in Australia to enable the services of the Light Horse to be used in operating them, some form of training should be given to these regiments, in order to prepare them, for service in the event of their being required to form mechanized units. I understand that the crews of tanks receive training somewhat similar to that of light horse and artillery. 
Reference was made by  Senator Ashley  to the government annexes that have been attached to factories and workshops. He said that little output had come from those establishments, but I am glad to be able to say that 10 of the 26 annexes are 11OW in production. Their output includes shell forgings, machined shell bodies, trench mortar bombs, aircraft bombs, hand grenades, smoke grenades, fuses, primers and gaines.  Production has, in some instances, been delayed or suspended, through shortage of materials due to the coal strike, but this has now been overcome, as the result of instructions issued to suppliers to give urgent priority to defence orders. The principal cause of the non-completion of the remaining ten annexes is the difficulty that has been experienced in obtaining a comparatively few machine tools and master gauges, hut these are now coining forward. Many of the tools, jigs and gauges have been supplied from the toolroom annexe at the South Australian Government Railways workshops at Islington, which have been working at full capacity for a considerable time, and are being extended as rapidly as essential plant oan be obtained. In view of these facts,  Senator Ashley  should realize that the Government has not been negligent in this matter, and that the workshops to which the annexes have been attached are making every effort to provide war materials. I had the pleasure of visiting recently the annexe of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited at Whyalla in South Australia. This establishment was engaged in the manufacture of o very important part of an aeroplaneengine, and output commenced towards the end of December last, although the shop is not yet fully equipped. I was impressed by the efficient manner in which the premises were being provided with all necessary plant. The engine part had to be true to one-thousandth part of an inch, and, to make this possible, the whole of the workshop had to be air-conditioned, because a variation of temperature of a few degrees would have prevented accurate work. ( trust that prompt consideration will be given to the points which I have raised, in order to determine whether more can be done to increase Australia's war effort. The training of men over the military age should not impair our war effort in any way, because they would be trained in their own time. 
In view of the fact that another £70,000,000 will be needed in the next financial year to provide for the defence of this country,  and  to aid in the successful prosecution of the war, I venture to suggest that, owing to developments in Europe within the last few days, the amount mentioned will be merely pocket money in comparison with what will be needed in the future. Although pome details ha ve been given showing how the £70,000,000 is to be- raised, we have not. yet had any information as to how further future commitments are to be met. I trust that in this time of crisis when our liberty, democratic institutions, privileges, and in fact all we hold dear, are at stake, we shall not allow the orthodox system of finance to prevent the effective defence of Australia and the successful prosecution of the war. Honorable senators will admit that nations cannot be defended and wars won with money alone, and that a nation's security depends upon its man-power, guns, aeroplanes, tanks, munitions and foodstuffs. Therefore, it is undesirable that any expert or committee of experts should tell us that our limits in financing our war operations are governed by the issue of credit or the raising of loans. As I have stated, success depends upon the quantity of equipment and foodstuffs we can produce, and the man-power we have available. That is the position which we shall have to face in Australia in the near future. The remarks which I propose to make later on the burden of taxation will support the comments which I am making at this juncture. To say, as some do, that if Britain bc beaten, we also shall be beaten, is the worst kind of propaganda. Even if Britain were defeated that would not mean that the whole British Empire was defeated. We know the serious degree to which Britain is menaced, and at present it is impossible to say what may happen within the next twelve months, or even within the next few weeks. It is foolish to say that if Britain falls the whole British Empire also must fall. 
Who has said that? 
We appreciate what the Government is doing up to a point; but much greater energy must be thrown into our defence  efforts.  For . instance, an enormous number of men are unemployed while unnecessarily long shifts are being worked in sonic establishments. In Great Britain some of the factories are working two shifts of  twelve  hours and others longer shifts, in an endeavour to increase production. At this critical juncture no one in Australia should be idle, and in order to increase our war effort every man should bc employed in some form of production. rf. as Ministers have said, we are short of  technicians  and skilled tradesmen, additional technical schools should be established where men could be trained as rapidly as possible, in order to bring them up to the standard required' for the production of arms and munitions. It has been suggested that the Opposition should co-operate with the Government with respect to its defence activities, by forming a national government, but when advice is tendered to the Government it is disregarded. About two years ago at a conference of Ministers of Education,  Mr. Ogilvie,  who represented the Tasmanian Government, and  Mr. Drummond,  the Minister for 
Education in New South Wales, in advocating an extension of the technical training system, said that there was a shortage of trained mechanics in Australia. It was suggested that the Federal Government should assist financially iD order to overcome the shortage, but the representations made on that occasion were completely ignored. The shortage with which we are now confronted is due entirely to the lack of foresight on the part of the Commonwealth Government. Every effort should be made to ensure that past blunders shall not be repeated. Every available workshop capable of producing arms and munitions should be brought into production. We have said from time to time that it is most unfair to concentrate production of Australian defence requirements in the eastern States, and that effect should be given to a policy of decentralization. Up to the present the Government has ignored the advantage of such a policy, but now, when the guns are almost thundering at our doors, other avenues are being explored, and outside workshops are being brought into production as we suggested some months ago. I trust that the Government will expedite a policy of decentralization with the least possible delay, and arrange for every available workshop to be utilized for the production of arms and munitions. All plant, in the mechanical workshops in Tasmania can be driven with electric power, which is always available at a comparatively low cost, and as coal is not required to produce electricity in that State, production would not be delayed a.« it was recently owing to a stoppage of work on the New South Wales coal-fields. In this respect Tasmania offers outstanding advantages. At the same time, several workshops in that State could easily be converted into munition factories. 
Although magnesium alloy is being used extensively overseas in the manufacture of armaments, the Government has refused to assist in the development of deposits of magnesium in Tasmania. Its attitude in this matter is most discouraging. We have been told that wlcan secure all of our requirements of magnesium alloy from Great Britain. 1  dispute that statement. Here is a cablegram which was despatched from London on the 17th May - 
Production and purchase of magnesium now matter within control of Air Ministry who reply: Prepared to consider purchase of any surplus magnesium produced in Tasmania. Pinal decision must however depend on quantity available, programme deliveries and price, therefore inquire what is maximum tonnage of pure metal and of alloy which is expected will bc available for export to the United Kingdom during 1.941 and 1942 and what would be the price. At the present time Is. 5d. per lb. would be considered reasonable for 99.8 per cent, of pure metal. 
From this message it appears thai Great Britain it-self is short of this metal. I again appeal to the Government immediately to assist in the development of the magnesium deposits in Tasmania. These deposits are easily accessible, and a company  in Tasmania  is prepared to work them, provided it receives the assistance it has requested. 
 If a market exists for the metal why should the company require Government assistance? 
In  order to assist them to discover  oil, but the  honorable senator has said that the magnesium ha* already been discovered. 
Honorable senators opposite alleged that the Labour party refuses to co-operate with the Government in ite war effort. Yesterday, we listened to a speech from  Senator Dein  which consisted of nothing but vulgar abuse of the Labour party. Yet in the same speech the honorable senator appealed to the Opposition to participate in the formation of a national government. In view of that speech, not one honorable senator on i his side would be prepared to join, a government with which  Senator Dein  wo* associated. The honorable senator himself must realize that. We on this side are prepared to give every assistance to the Government in the prosecution of its war effort. We have not opposed any war measure yet introduced into this Parliawent. In our criticism of such measures we have suggested improvements, but I regret that honorable senators opposite have ridiculed those suggestions. However, we find that the Government has subsequently embodied many of our suggestions in its policy. All men and women in this country must throw their weight into the struggle. We on this side intend to do everything possible to help the Government in the prosecution of the war. However, it would be futile, for us to join in a national government with parties from which we differ on major defence issues. We have already had the spectacle of the Leader of thiCountry party, the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron),  stating that if a certain man, despite his admitted ability to fill the position, were appointed co-ordinator of works, the Country party would withdraw- from the Ministry. How can we be expected l-&gt; work in harmony with a party that adopts such an attitude? In fighting for democracy we must be careful that we do not lose the democratic privilege.-; which we already have. I am impelled to make that observation as the result of the statement made by the -Minister for Commerce in an address recently io the Millions Club in Sydney, that the time lias arrived when the Government must govern and nobody must be permitted to criticize its policy. I hope that when he used those words, the Minister  was speaking for himself and not for the Government. Is it in accordance with democratic principles to deny to an Opposition the right to criticize government policy, particularly when such criticism is constructive? We are here *o protect the .rights of the general public. If the public think I am making a mistake, it is at liberty to say. so ; similarly if the public thinks that the Government or any member of the Government is making a mistake, then so long as tincritics keep within the bounds of the law, they are at liberty to draw attention to 5 u oh mistake. There is no reason why we should overburden the .people with restrictions and unnecessary laws in our endeavour to carry on this fight foi democracy. Mention was made in this chamber the other day of the methods employed in Germany. I refer to this matter because it illustrates just what can be clone if a genuine desire to build up a nation exists. The question was asked, how did Germany finance its amazing economic development? The answer is to be found in the words of Hitler himself, and from them Australia could well learn a lesson. When Hitler came into power in Germany he said in effect, "I have been elected your leader. I possess very little more than the clothes F stand up in. Germany has no foreign credits, no gold, and no money whatsoever; the one thing we have is a nation willing to produce and to build ". Germany has built, and has produced, to such :good effect that a. mighty nation has arisen. Hitler did not allow money to stand in the way of Germany's progress, and in this country there is a willing body of men, women and children, capable of producing wealth from our natural resources, we should not. let antiquated financial methods block our progress. Important defence projects should not have to be abandoned or held in abeyance, merely because under our -existing system insufficient money can be found for them. We must use our national wealth to overcome all difficulties in the same way as Germany, Russia and other countries have used their national wealth. 
I shall now deal with the Governments taxation proposals, mainly with the object of combating some of the criticism which has been levelled against Tasmania. According to the Treasurer's statement, indirect taxation during this year will' amount to approximately £60,000,000, which, with the increased army expenditure of £7,000,000, will make a total of £67,000,000. On the other hand, direct taxation will amount to £20,000,000. Included in indirect taxes are the flour tax and the sales tax, both of which place a very heavy burden on the workers. During the term of office of this Government and its predecessors of the same political colour, the sales tax has been progressively increased from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent., from 5 per cent, to 6 per cent., and now to 8 1/3 per cent. On a conservative estimate made by a draper, this latest increase will mean a reduction of 2s. 6d. in the £1 in the purchasing power of the people, at least so far as drapery is concerned. In other words, people wishing to purchase £1 worth of drapery will have to pay £1 2s. 6d. for it. This is an imposition which will bear heavily upon people with low incomes, such as invalid and old-age pensioners. In effect it means a reduction, of the pension. 
I propose to deal now with allegations of extravagant expenditure made against the Tasmanian Government. These charges were made by members of the Commonwealth Government, and also by the Opposition in the Tasmanian Parliament. I state emphatically that there has been no extravagant expenditure by the Tasmanian Government. I shall cite some figures to show that Tasmania's finances are wisely administered, and that apart from Victoria, Tasmania is the most economically governed of any State of the Commonwealth. In 1934-35 expenditure from Consolidated Revenue in the various States was as follows : - 

<graphic href="163332194005304_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The increases of State expenditure from Consolidated Revenue in 1934-35, compared with 1933-34 were as follow :-- 

<graphic href="163332194005304_10_1.jpg"></graphic>

The totals of State expenditure in 1938-39 are given in tie following table : - 

<graphic href="163332194005304_11_2.jpg"></graphic>

The increases of expenditure in the various States from Consolidated Revenue since 1933-34 are shown in the following figures : - 

<graphic href="163332194005304_11_3.jpg"></graphic>

The expenditure from Consolidated Revenue per head of the population in 1088-39 was as follows:- 

<graphic href="163332194005304_11_4.jpg"></graphic>

The average for all States was £18 15s.  per capita.-  The increased expenditure per head of population in 1938-39, as compared with .1934-35, is shown in the following figures : - 

<graphic href="163332194005304_11_5.jpg"></graphic>

The average for all States was £2 3s. 9d. The above figures show that the  per capita  increase of expenditure was much lower in Victoria than in any ether State. That no doubt explains the lower level of social services provided for the people there, compared with similar services in other States. 

<graphic href="163332194005304_11_6.jpg"></graphic>

Victoria is again seen to be the lowest on the list as regards expenditure per head of population. I feel sure that if  Senator Gibson  will study the figures he will admit that the other States provide social services on a more liberal scale than is done in Victoria. 
Se'nator Fraser. - The Commonwealth Grants Commission made some pointed references to expenditure by some States on social services. 
I come now to the figures relating to the public debt. In 1938-39 the public debts  of  the Commonwealth and States stood as under -  (Leave to continue given.']  Tasmania has proved, again, that it has exercised greater economy than any other State, except Victoria. Consider now the interest, sinking fund, and exchange charges on the public debts of the States, including the short-term debt. The following table shows the figures in respect of each of the States for the year 1937-3S - 
The figures in the third column are based on the mean population in each financial year, as adjusted in accordance with the 1933 census results. It will be seen that these charges are lower in Tasmania,  per capita,  than in any other State, except Victoria. Therefore, the accusation against Tasmania of wasteful expenditure cannot be sustained. That State has fewer industries than have the other States, and the population does not include large, wealthy sections such as live in the other States. The wealthy class in Tasmania carries, proportionately, as heavy a burden of taxation as is borne by the corresponding class in the other States, but, as there are fewer people in Tasmania with large incomes, the amount of tax contributed per head of the population is lower. Therefore, Tasmania should not be charged with having failed to impose taxes to the same degree as other States have done. 
In conclusion I wish to say that the Government can be assured of the full co-operation of the Opposition in the defence of Australia and in the prosecution of the war. Many people have offered their assistance to the Government, and are anxious to be trained for home defence. They should be given an opportunity to undergo training voluntarily. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Clothier)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That  the  bill be now read a second time. 
The Treasurer, in his financial statement of the 2nd May, reviewed the prospects of the budget for the current financial year. Honorable senators will remember that he stated that owing to the unexpectedly high customs receipts, as compared with the estimate, the total revenue would be considerably in excess of expenditure. The amount of the excess was then estimated at £8,000,000, and the Treasurer intimated that this amount would be made available for war purposes by means of an appropriation to be brought down at a later date. This bill is to give effect to that plan. Since the financial statement was presented, customs receipts have maintained a high level, and it is also anticipated that other taxation revenue for the year will be greater than the recent estimate. In addition, the now duties recently imposed have contributed to the increased revenue. In view of present prospects, it is considered that the excess of receipts over expenditure for the financial year may more nearly approximate £9,000,000 than £S,000,000.' The effect of the bill will be to enable the Consolidated Revenue Fund to take up expenditure of £9,000,000 which would otherwise remain a charge to loan funds. It will merely effect a transfer of charge and will not provide for additional expenditure in 1939-40. It will, however, relieve the loan fund and reduce the amount which would otherwise have to be raised by loan in 1940-41. This relief was taken into account in estimating the amount to be borrowed between now and the 30th June, 1941, with the exception that the relief is £9,000,000 instead of £8.000,000. The schedule to the bill provides for services which have already been voted by the Parliament in a previous loan appropriation, and the items were included in similar wording in items of the Estimates submitted to Parliament in November last. It will be seen that this is a machinery bill to give effect to the course of action announced on the 2nd May. As this subject was covered exhaustively early this month, I do not propose to weary senators with a repetition of what is contained in former statements. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I realize the tremendous responsibility which the Government has to shoulder in financing the defence of Australia and meeting the cost of transporting and maintaining our men and nurses overseas. We appreciate fully the responsible and hazardous nature of the work which our fighting men have to undertake; but the valuable service which the nursing staff is rendering is often overlooked. The Government has adopted various means to raise money to finance its defence programme, but apparently it is not utilizing the Commonwealth Bank as it should be used. We have been told that " Free money makes free people; but debt money makes slaves ". The Commonwealth Bank, which is the nation's bank, should be used to provide the necessary finance to meet our tremendous defence commitments. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and other  honorable  senators on this side of the chamber have dealt fully with taxation and the financial problems confronting the Commonwealth, I .propose to confine my remarks more particularly to the production of arms and munitions. Again, I stress the necessity for a policy of decentralization. On page three of the financial statement it is said that, a " three-fold task confronts the Government " and reference is also made to " general levels of income and employment ". I emphasize the complaint which I have made on previous occasions that Western Australia is not receiving its share of the work which is being undertaken in connexion with the production of arras, munitions and aircraft. Last night  Senator Ashley,  who dealt very fully with this subject, said that although a number of annexes had been constructed only one is in operation, but I assert that if an annexe were erected in Western Australia, where we have a population of only 500,000, it would soon he in operation. In that State we have railway workshops second to none in the Commonwealth in which arms and munitions could be manufactured expeditiously, but, unfortunately, the opportunity to do so has not been afforded. Some contracts have been let in Western Australia -to those engaged in the leather trade, but there are many other directions in which production could be undertaken economically. The equipment for soldiers who enlist in Western Australia should be provided in that State, and not imported from tho eastern States. This policy should be followed, even if it involves an increase of the cost. Honorable senators opposite are prone to say that the cost of manufacturing military equipment in Western Australia is too high. Such a statement indicates that high wages are paid in Western Australia, and, I contend, reflects credit upon the State. I regret that most of the Government's orders for military material are placed in the eastern States, whilst the claims of Tasmania and Western Australia are ignored. In this connexion South Australia is now receiving much better treatment than it did not so many years ago. Several factories in Western Australia are capable of handling these orders. Tho woollen mills at Albany are working at full capacity, and are turning out excellent material. If the Government had listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  two-and-a-half years ago, when ho urged that aeroplanes should bc manufactured in Australia, the taxes required to meet much of its war expenditure would have been spread over a number of years, and the burden would not now fall so heavily upon the people. Facilities already exist in Western Australia for the manufacture of complete aeroplanes. To-day, however, aeroplane parts are being manu- f actu red in Queensland, Victoria, New South Wales, and South Australia, whilst Tasmania and Western Australia are excluded from sharing in this work. Manufacturers in Melbourne and Sydney ignore the claims of the smaller States. So much has been said of the efficiency of factories in those centres that one would have expected the manufacturers to extend their operations to the other Slates. They have not done so,  however  simply because tho profits to be made there arc not high enough. Western Australia is the gateway to the Commonwealth, and for that reason alone  we  should encourage an increase  of  population in that State. If this were  done  our nation would be more secure. 
I  am  pleased that the Government intends to build ships in Australia. Facilities exist in Sydney for the complete construction of not only vesselsrequired for the transport of our primary products overseas, but also lesser craft for the use of the navy. I do not complain because this work is to be givenfirst to Sydney. 
Only punts can be built in South Australia. In placing its orders for war material, the Government should give equal consideration to the claims of all of the States. It should bear in mind the importance of increasing employment in every part of the Commonwealth. I am concerned not about our menfolk only. We must give to our women and children every chance to develop into healthy and useful citizens. To-day, however, many volunteers are, being rejected because, in their youth, they did not receive the foods necessary for their proper nourishment. And many men between the ages of IS and 20, whom we see walking our streets, are of poor physique. It is a crime that every child in this country is not enabled to develp into a healthy citizen. I again appeal to the Government to give equal consideration to the claims of the smaller States when it is placing its orders for the supply of military material. 

 Senator JAMES MCLACHLAN (South 
Australia) [5.43]. - For the information of the honorable senator who has just resumed his  seat,  I point out that slips are  now being laid down at Whyalla, in South Australia, on which it will be possible to construct vessels of up to 20,000 tons. Equal facilities for this work do not exist elsewhere in Australia. I agree that the taxes proposed in this measure are absolutely essential if the Government is to be enabled to secure the revenue it requires for the prosecution of the war. We should conscript both manpower and wealth. 
I propose to deal with a few matters, which, though they may appear to the Government to be of minor importance, ire taken very seriously by the general public. I draw the attention of the Minister to the following advertisement which appeared in an Adelaide paper a few days ago: - 
Commonwealth OB' Australia 
[ am addressing my remarks to the Government. I repeat, what have we done during the last few weeks? For a whole week we debated the Electoral Bill, and, for another week,  Ave  debated a sugar agreement of which every honorable member of both chambers was entirely in favour before the bill was introduced. 

 Seantor McBride.  -  The Government did not debate those measures. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.T know that, but there was  no  need  for  the Government to introduce the Sugar Agreement Bill at all, because the existing agreement has eighteen months to run. If there is work to be done here, no doubt all honorable senators are perfectly agreeable to come here and do it. It is our earnest desire that our services (should be of some use to the country, but while we are here, give us a bone with some meat on it. If we are doing useful work, the people will be satisfied that Parliament is really worth while. 
Another matter to which I should like to refer is the amount of talk which has been indulged in with reference to  the  Communist party in Australia. That party has received attention from honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. Some honorable senators on this side wish to lay all the blame on honorable senators opposite, who, in  turu, endeavour to pass the responsibility back to this side. I do not care on what side the blame lies ; the influence of Communists must be combated because it is a menace to the good government of this country, and to the people generally. The Government has taken steps in the right direction by imposing a censorship upon undesirable literature, and I support its action wholeheartedly. 
-- Yes.  I have before me a letter - no doubt other honorable senators received copies of it - dealing with the Government's action in connexion with a Communist publication. The letter begins: - 
We look forward with confidence that your interests in the welfare of Australia and the preservation of the democratic rights of our publication will prompt you to raise the question in the House for the immediate removal of the ban on our magazine. 
That of course Ls from the organization known as the Friends of the Soviet Union and refers to their magazine  Soviets To-day. 
I have no doubt that the same letter was received by  Senator Ashley. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN The senders of the letter have asked me io bring the matter up on the floor of tho Senate at the earliest possible opportunity. I am here to represent the people of this country, and when any matter is raised by my constituents, I always endeavour to deal with it. In this case, I wholeheartedly support the action which the Government has taken to suppress undesirable publications such as the one referred to. With this letter f also received a list of names of people who apparently are thinking along the same lines as are the Friends of the Soviet Union, and as there has been so much controversy with regard to where the Communists belong it is interesting to peruse that list. It might be advisable for the Government to check up  on  these people. 
lt is a lengthy list and to read only some of the names would be invidious. 
1 suspect that the honorable senator himself received a copy of the letter and the list of names. If he did not I shall be pleased to let him have my copy. It is possible that the people whose names appear on this list are not active Communists, but undoubtedly their views are not in the best interests of this country. If I had my way, instead of interning them, T should pay their passage to Soviet Russia, which they esteem so highly. 
I do not suppose that all the names on the list are those of trade union leaders. 
No.  -Senator Ashley.  - Apparently these letters were forwarded only to Government supporters. 

 Senator McLEAY (South Australia - 
Minister for Trade and Customs) [6.0]. - I do not propose to go into all the financial matters raised during thisdebate, but I wish to refer to several points mentioned by  Senator Cameron.  The honorable senator .made certain references to price-fixing in the Commonwealth, and I am sure that on reflection he will have realized that what he said was incorrect and misleading. In order that honorable senators may not be under a. misapprehension, owing to  Senator Cameron's  remarks, I shall make a few observations on the subject of pricefixing. 

 Senator Cameron said that up to date the Government had not attempted tosolve the problem of the increasing cost of living. I draw the honorable senator'* attention to the fact that shortly after the outbreak of war the Government set up an organization to control prices, and so successful has this been that, apart from normal seasonal price movements in commodities like potatoes, eggs and meat, the problem mentioned by  Senator Cameron  does not exist. The statement made by the honorable senator that " the present form of price control exist* merely to stabilize and prevent a reduction of profits " grossly misrepresents the position. The Commonwealth Prices Commissioner has full authority to vary profits, and he has used his powers extensively to ensure that the minimum of cost increases is passed on to the public. Prices Regulation Order No. 100 issued by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, under which many companies trading in declared goods operate, contains an important provision that the Commissioner may determine a higher oi- lower rate of gross profit than that which operated before the war, and that the maximum price at which goods may be sold by the trader or manufacturer shall be varied according to the variation in the gross profit margin fixed by the Commissioner. Under this provision substantial reductions have been made in gross profit margins since the outbreak of war. The investigating officers of the Prices Branch of the Customs Department are constantly examining profit margins in industries which make applications for an increase of prices.  Senator Cameron's  statement, " It is not suggested by those controlling prices that profits should be reduced ", is a base reflection upon the work of disinterested and able members of the Public Service who have been called in to undertake the highly responsible work of price-control luring the war period. I wish to assure the honorable senator that these men are just as interested in protecting the public and just as devoted to their duty as he is. Many of them are returned soldiers who served in the last war, and it may be assumed by  Senator Cameron  that they have a full realization of the duty they are called upon to perform in this country. I can assure the honorable gentleman that in case after case the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner has decided on the reports of these officers that gross profit margins should be reduced, and that, in fact, they have been reduced. There are many important trades in the community which depend upon imports for their business ; which, therefore, have experienced increases in landed costs; and which have had to accept a lower percentage gross profit margin. i.n regard to local manufacturing industries not so directly affected by increased costs of imported goods, the Commissioner has, in many instances, refused to allow an increase of price before the profit position in the industry concerned was such that it could absorb the increased costs for the time being. 

 Senator Cameron is very unfortunate in the two examples of specific commodities which he selects to give point to his remarks. In the case of tea, the increase of price on account of higher landed costs at one time reached 5d. per lb. In New Zealand at the same time it amounted to 6d. per lb., and this may surely be taken as evidence that the price- fixing methods in Australia were at least as rigorous as those operated by the Labour Government in New Zealand. Since the maximum of 5d. per lb. above the pre-war level operated, there have been two reductions amounting to 2d., so that the maximum increase now in operation is 3d. The whole of the increase is due entirely to the increased landed cost of tea in Australia and not to any increase in costs in Australia. 

 Senator Cameron's reference to Victorian bread prices was but a half-truth. As the result of an investigation carried out by the Victorian Wheat Products Prices Committee the price of a 4-lb. loaf of bread was increased by 1/2d.  in fifteen municipalities, and by Id. in four municipalities. These increases had been made necessary by the position of bakers, some of whom were in  desperate  financial straits, and the prices in Victoria compare favorably with bread prices in other capital cities. I remind  Senator Cameron  that the Wheat Produets Prices Committee is set up under joint legislation by the Commonwealth and the State of Victoria, and that in permitting the rise of prices of bread in the municipalities referred to, the Prices Commissioner was acting on the advice  and representations of that committee. 
These are the only increases of the price of bread in Victoria. No other increases have taken place in the mainland States. In certain areas in South Australia there have been reductions, and in Tasmania the only increase of bread prices has been id. per 2-lb. loaf. This increase is not proportional to the increase of the price of wheat experienced by the Tasmanian millers. Any increase of the price of bread, which at present is limited to a fraction of the bread consumed in Australia, influences the cost of living; and  Senator Cameron  is wrong in asserting that " as there has been no corresponding increase of purchasing power of the people fewer loaves will be baked". This, I may add, is only a sample of the half-baked statements which abound in  Senator Cameron's  remarks- This is the evidence ' upon which  Senator Cameron  asserts that " the Government's pricefixing scheme in operation to-day is merely a pretence and a fraud ". Honorable senators will, I believe, treat this remark with tho contempt it deserves. 
I take this opportunity to bring to the notice of the Government the desirability of using its powers under the National Security Act to improve the amenities of a considerable number of men employed in the Lithgow Small Arms Factory, which is now working two 12-hour shifts. Men who start work at 7 o'clock in the morning do not cease until 6 o'clock, and after the strain which continued work for so long entails, they feel that they are entitled, if they are so inclined, to obtain a drink. Under the licensing law of New South Wales, hotels arc supposed to close at 6 p.m. This regulation is not observed in every instance, and in Lithgow two licensees oblige certain customers at almost any hour of the night. Their contravention of the law is winked at. Other licensees, however, are forced to close at 6 o'clock and get their customers out of their bars as soon as possible. It has been suggested to me that if the Government used its powers under the National Security Act, which is wide enough to meet any contingency, an arrangement could be made for hotels in Lithgow to remain open until at least half-past nine at night, and thus meet the convenience of the men who work the long day shifts. 
I am well aware that it is the function of State governments to fix the hours of trading for hotels; but in the circumstances it would not be unreasonable for the Commonwealth Government to use its wide powers in the way I have suggested. At present it is impossible for workers on the day shifts to get a drink if they feel so disposed. 
The need for securing ample supplies of petroleum in Australia is most urgent. This is a matter which I have mentioned in the Senate on several occasions. The other day the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  stated that I was using my privileged position as a member of this chamber for the purpose of boosting a company in which I had some personal interest and he went on to say that my attitude was highly improper. On that point, all I wish to say is that I shall certainly not be guided in matters of ethics by the code observed by the parties supporting the Government. 
I am convinced that the code which I observe is far superior to that followed by the Minister's political friends. I say that because, since I have been a member of this chamber, the New South Wales Parliament has had the extraordinary experience of hearing a Minister charging his leader, the Premier, with having faked the budget. 
Order ! There is nothing in the financial statement relating to the finances of New South Wales. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

In view of the debate that has taken place on the motion for the printing of the Government's financial statement members of the Senate have had a reasonable opportunity to express their views on the Government's proposals, and they will have a further opportunity to offer constructive criticism when the Supply Bill is brought down. As the Opposition has agreed not to cavil at the amount of loan money asked for by the Government for defence purposes, I do not intend to delay the passage of this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee; 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Purposes for which money may be expended). 
I notice that the huge sum of £346,000, or about1/2 per cent. of the total of £68,740,000, represents the estimated cost of raising this loan. The Government has" made a present of a huge amount to its friends, the press, for advertising the loan campaign. It seems to me that, at a time when men are offering their lives for their country, it should not be necessary to publish fullpage advertisements in the newspapers to induce people to subscribe to war loans. The national broadcasting facilities should be sufficient for loan advertising purposes. I hope that in launching future loans, the Government will not waste money on newspaper advertisements. A broadcast announcement before or after the reading of each news bulletin would be sufficient. 
I should like to know whether this money is to be raised through the medium of the Commonwealth Bank or the private banks, or from private individuals 
-The sum of £346.000 is only the estimated cost of raising this loan. During the last war, government loans were floated at an average cost, of 5s. per cent. The 10s. per cent. provided on this occasion will cover advertising, stationery, and all other expenditure incurred in the raising of the loan. The Commonwealth Bank and the private banks have assisted in the raising of the loan in Australia: but a portion of the sum required will be borrowed in England, and the expenses in that regard may be heavier than those in Australia. It is hoped that the average cost of raising the money to be borrowed under this bill will not exceed the cost incurred in connexion with loans floated during the last war. 
I desire to know how much of this money is to be borrowed in England. The 25 per cent. exchange rate will operate  greatly to the disadvantage of the Commonwealth. Why should we go outside Australia for this loan? 
The Government is making a very great mistake. If it would use the national credit borrowing outside Australia would be unnecessary. Will the Minister state why the Government intends to borrow in England? We already have heavy interest commitments overseas. I am more concerned about how the money is to be raised than how it will be expended. I have given instances in the past of the heavy cost of converting loans when they mature, and t have drawn attention to the tremendous exchange that has to be paid. I thought it was understood that the Governmentwould cease overseas borrowing. If a nation utilizes its credit it has no need whatever to borrow. 
 If goods are purchased overseas, how can we pay for them? 

 -(Senator James Mclachlan). - The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the clause. 
I oppose the clause. Would I be in order in discussing whether a portion of the loan should be raised overseas? 
I object to the raising of any loan overseas, as the financial resources of Australia have barely been tapped. We hear a great deal about equality of sacrifice, but the wealthy section of the community has not yet made a sufficient sacrifice. 
 I agree with  Senator Fraser.  The sum of  ?346,000  is more than enough to cover  the  expenses in connexion with the raising of this loan. The Government should follow the precedent established by  Sir Denison  Miller during the last war. Although ?90,000,000 was borrowed overseas, over ?280,000,000 was raised through the Commonwealth Bank by utilizing the credit of the nation. That sum was borrowed not for one-half of 1 per cent., but for 5s. 8d. per cent. In those days, the financial brigands charged the people ?3 per cent, on paltry loans raised to carry on the industrial activities of this country. Twenty-four years later, this Government is presenting to this Parliament a bill to authorize the borrowing of ?68,000,000, of which ?346,000 is to be actually squandered. 
I am objecting to an overseas loan, interest on which will have to be paid by the people, when the necessary . financial accommodation could be obtained through the Commonwealth Bank. We have been asked to co-operate with the Government. I am now showing that by utilizing the resources of the nation borrowing overseas can be avoided. 
Unfortunately, it. is sometimes necessary, particularly during war-time, to borrow overseas. Whatever financial legerdemain may be employed we can meet our overseas commitments only with commodities and services. At present, Australia may be in such dire straits that the value of its exports may not be sufficient to pay the overseas commitments. Great Britain has undertaken to purchase the whole of our exportable surplus of primary products and I should like to know whether the funds available from that source are sufficient to provide the amount to be borrowed overseas without adopting the course .proposed in this bill. Do financial circumstances compel the Government to borrow in this way? The Opposition is opposed to overseas borrowing, because it imposes economic strain upon Australia. Our external debt is at present approximately ?30,000,000, and the total of our external and internal indebtedness is approximately ?50,000,000. I realize the difficulties of the Government; but I should like to know whether it is imperative to borrow £1 2^00.0,000 in Great Britain, and in that, way add to our external debt and increase the everlasting economic drain upon this country. 
.- I support the opinions . expressed by honorable senators opposite who object to borrowing overseas. When Britain is . fighting for its life it is absolutely wrong to adopt such a policy. 
If I am out of order those honorable senators who preceded me also must have been out of order. 
Clause 4 reads - 
The amount  borrowed  may  be  issued  and  applied  for the expenses of borrowing and for the purposes set forth in the schedule to  this  act. 
This measure provides that money may be borrowed overseas, and we are objecting to the expenditure that will necessarily be incurred in doing so. 
The OH AIRMAN. - The honorable senator should have expressed his objection when the motion for the second reading of the bill was before the Senate. 
In answer to a question the Minister said the amount of £346,000 is .provided for flotation expenses in borrowing £12,000,000 
O VGVS6Q.S 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Conditions of borrowing from United Kingdom Government). 
.- When Britain is fighting for its life and every penny which it possesses is needed for its own defence, a wealthy country like Australia should not lean on the United Kingdom. I quite agree with what the Minister has said. It is nonsense to say that by using so-called credit, or by any internal monetary scheme, it would he possible to increase our credit ' overseas. Only by two ways can we avoid the necessity for borrowing overseas : first, byincreasing our exports - and I do not think we can do much more in that direction than we are doing a.t presentand. secondly, by restricting imports. At the present time we are importing articles to the value of many millions of pounds which we could easily do without. Month after month I have urged the Government to restrict imports. If we aru going to play our full part in this war, we must be prepared to make some sacrifices. It is not right to expect our allies only to make sacrifices. Motor cars, clothing and foodstuffs are being imported daily in considerable quantities. On a previous occasion I mentioned a protest which had been raised against the restriction of imports of tinned salmon and sardines. Will it hurt us very much if we arc obliged to do without tinned sardines and salmon for a while? In the interests of our war effort the Government must, take much stronger action to restrict imports. If it does so, we shall not need to rely upon the United Kingdom Government for credit. Instead of borrowing from that government at the present time we should be supplying to it commodities, and supplies on credit, so as to help the Mother Country in the vital struggle in which it is now engaged. I earnestly plead with the Government to take much more drastic action than it lias yet taken to restrict imports. 
.- I think that the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  is in possession of information which would clarify the meaning of this clause. We are now being asked to grant certain powers to the Government. 
Tho Assistant Minister's explanation may have satisfied the honorable senator who has just interjected, but other honorable senators would like a fuller explanation of this clause. Therefore I ask the Assistant Minister to take the committee into his confidence. If he does so he will find that the measure will be dealt with much more quickly, and with greater satisfaction to honorable senators- generally. 
, - The Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  has not explained why the Government has adopted this method of raising money. I am tired of quoting from the report of the Royal Commission  on  Banking and Monetary Systems. The Assistant Minister should explain why  the  Government refuses to take any notice of the recommendation of that commission, which was appointed by the Lyons Government. Why does the Government propose to borrow this money overseas, when the Commonwealth Bank can make this money available to the Government free of interest? 
Unless the Assistant Minister gives an explanation on the point which I have raised, it is impossible for the committee to deal with the clause intelligently, because by itself the clause is ambiguous. 

 Senator DEIN (New South Wales) S.35. - When the committee agreed to clause 3 it agreed to give to the Government authority to borrow this money, and that authority cannot now be disputed. 
.- The Treasurer  (Mr. Spender),  in his financial statement, on the 2nd May, which all honorable senators have seen and should understand, stated - 
Thu rate of expenditure overseas has, of course, increased since the Australian Imperial force embarked some weeks ago. As provision for such expenditure, the Government raised a defence loan of £0,000,000 sterling in London last June. The question of finance of. further overseas war expenditure is one that raises special difficulties. A temporary arrangement has been made with the British Government to make finance available by way of loan to meet the balance of our overseas war expenditure up to the end of December, 1940. 
When I was speaking to that statement I dealt with what appeared to me to bo the unwisdom of borrowing abroad. However, the fact is that a certain amount of money has actually been borrowed overseas. In his second-reading speech the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  said - 
As 1 have explained on a previous occasion, loan appropriations are based on the amount of the liability to be incurred by a certain date and not on the amount of expenditure which it is anticipated will ho made before that date. This of course is necessary to enable Parliament not only to authorize expenditure but also to authorize the incurring of the liability and the placing of orders for that expenditure.  1 agree with both that statement and theextract which I have quoted from the financial statement. This Opposition is not opposing, and has not at any time opposed, the proposals of the Government with regard to its defence expenditure. That is definite. The fact remains that certain expenditure has been incurred overseas, and that we shall be obliged to meet further commitments of the kind. We must meet those commitments in some way or other; we can do so by exports, or by restricting imports; or by doing what is proposed under this measure; or we can use all three of those methods simultaneously as is now being done. For my part, I do not propose to delay the passage of the bill. Anything which honorable senators might like to say with regard to the Government's loan policy generally, can be said on the Supply Bill. I regret very much the tone which has been introduced into this debate- Honorable senators on both sides have raised matters which are irrelevant to this measure, and have no relation to the difficulties which the Government is encountering. When we undertook not to oppose these proposals we thereby agreed to share with the Government the responsibility for them.  "  Senator. AMOUR  (New South Wales) [S.41]. - I should not have felt so surprised if the remarks just made by the Leader of the -Opposition  (Senator Collings)  had come from the lips of the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride). Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that arrangements had been made to borrow a sum of £12,000,000 from the British Government.  I  point out that paragraph  a  states - 
The rate of interest, the date of repayment and the form of security may be such as arc approved by the Governor-General. 
The Leader  of  the Opposition declared that honorable senators on this side have nothing to say about this provision. But I want to know why the Government does not intimate what the rate of interest for this loan will be? The clause simply says that the rate of interest shall be such rate as is approved by the GovernorGeneral. In view of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan's statement that arrangements have been made to borrow this money, the Government should disclose what rate of interest has been agreed upon- The committee is entitled to that information, and it is useless to tell us a lullaby story that everything is all right. I do not oppose this expenditure, although I have already expressed the opinion that this money could in some respects be more wisely expended. However, at this juncture, I should like to know what rate of interest is to be paid  on  money borrowed overseas? I concur with  Senator Darcey's  statement that it is not necessary to raise this money in the United Kingdom. Of course  Ave have  been told repeatedly  that  the money is required to meet commitments incurred by the Government in respect of expenditure in connexion with the Australian Imperial Force now abroad. I can see no reason why  thu  Government could not secure this money through the London branch of the Commonwealth Bank. I feel sure that  the  people of Australia  would  like to know exactly what arrangements have been made to borrow this sum of  £12,000,000,  and what rate of interest the  Govern.ment  proposes to pay for it. 
In my second-reading speech I stated that arrangements had been made for the United Kingdom Government to borrow on behalf of the Commonwealth  £12,000,000,  which is needed to pay for certain goods and services obtained abroad. The arrangement is that Australia will pay exactly the rate of interest and the flotation costs paid by the British 
Government.  As the loan has not yet been raised, I am not able to inform the Senate what the rate of interest will he, but-it is reasonable to assume that  it  will be between  3  per cent, and &amp; per cent., as that is the current rate in the United Kingdom for loans of this character. 
I thank the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  for his explanation. Despite all that has been said by my leader  (Senator Collings)  I do not agree that  Ave  should not  seek  all possible information on matters such as this. 
If I  Avant any  information on details of the bill the committee stage is the time to obtain it. I remind the Leader of  the  Opposition that during the last  Avar money was  borrowed by the Australian Government from Great Britain, and  thi rate  of interest charged waa higher than  that which  Great Britain itself paid for  money  borrowed from the United States  of  America. 
That is quite  all  right, but  we  are now starting out  on a  new  borrowing  programme, and  we  should know what  we  are doing. I am strongly opposed  to any  money being bor- rowed  overseas,  and the statement made  by  Senator Wilson  is  very opportune. As  the  Leader  of  the Opposition said, we cannot oppose this measure, but  we can  protest against the manner in which loans are to be raised under the provisions  of  this clause. 
Honorable senators opposite ' seem to be rather resentful  of  the fact that some information has been sought in 0regard  &lt;o  this measure, and when questions have  been  asked they have been answered rather reluctantly. I do not  wish to  do the Assistant Minister an injustice, but the impression I gained from the way in which  he  hesitated before answering  a  question which had  to  be repeated several times, was that he  was  reluctant to give the desired information. It is the duty of  a  committee to analyse legislation clause by clause. If, in the opinion  of  any honorable senator, a point requires to be cleared up,  he  is perfectly justified in  asking for information. I am entitled to place my own construction on the Assistant Minister's attitude. 
The wording of sub-clause  a  of clause 5 with regard to the rate of interest, is such that I suspect the whole bill. I believe that it is not impossible for the Government to say exactly what the rate of interest will be. The Assistant Minister suggested that the rate would be approximately 3 or 3£ per cent. But it is to depend on the price that the Government will pay to private individuals who, even in this time of unprecedented war effort, make the lending of money for war purposes a gilt-edged business proposition, in the interests of investors, speculators and others. That is well known, and it lias happened in the past. It has happened to the degree that, instead of using our own resources as they should be used to greater and better advantage, wc are now pledged to pay enormous sums every year in interest. This clause authorizes the Government to pay any rate of interest which it sees fit. 
Exactly. I cannot imagine honorable senators opposite who have had a life-time of experience in the business world and have had extensive dealings with banks and other financial institutions allowing the lender te fix any rate of interest he chooses. Yet, we find them in this chamber doing something in the name of the people, which they would never do in their own affairs, because if they did. it they would not be  very  long in business. Therefore, I submit that the objection to paragraph  a  of clause 5, in which the rate of interest is not specifically set out, is justified, and worthy of consideration if it is our aim to carry on this war in the interests of the nation. 
To me the position is perfectly clear; the Government must have money  and  Parliament is quite prepared to let it have money. Accordingly the Government has made arrangements to borrow a certain sum, and to obtain at least a portion of that money in London. To that end the London market has been sounded, and the Government's advisers have found that the money is available; then, in a business-like manner, the Government has asked Parliament for authority to borrow. The Government is not in a position to say what the rate of interest will be, because rates vary from week to week. When Parliament gives to the Government authority to  proceed  with the borrowing of this money, the Government will naturally get in touch with its representative in London, the High Commissioner, who is a very capable man in financial matters. In co-operation with the United Kingdom Government,  Mr. Bruce's  object will be to raise a loan on the terms which will bo most advantageous to Australia. Surely honorable senators cannot believe anything else. Whether the rate will be 3 per cent, or 3J per cent. I do not know, and the Government does not know. I am quite prepared to leave that matter to our representative whose task is to provide the money at the least possible cost to this country. 
The Senate is devoting quite a lot of time to a matter which, is really quite simple. The statement made to Parliament by the Treasurer on the 2nd May was that, a temporary arrangement had been made with the British Government to make finance available, by way of loans, bo meet the balance of our overseas war expenditure to the end of December, 1940. I do not think that any member of this chamber - least of all  Senator Wilson  - believes that having secured that temporary accommodation, we should not pay it back. The Treasurer's statement is definite - 
These loans will bear interest at the effective rate which the British Government itself is paying for loans of similar maturity and similar amortization. The interest rate, it i.» known, will be low. 
Cannot we accept that as being the position which now prevails? We shall repay tho money by loan, because if we do not do so we shall have to pay it by means of exports, or a restriction of imports, or perhaps by a little of all three methods. For my own part, I can say nothing more than  that we should agree that the loan shall bear interest at tho effective rate which the British Government is paying for loans of similar maturity and similar amortization. 
Of course. I do not wish to appear in the role of an apologist for the Government, but we should not keep on bea.ting the air, when the documents before us definitely set out as plainly as the English language could possibly do it, the conditions of this loan. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedule. 
I take it that of the £6,016,000 to be appropriated for the Department of the Navy, £1,000,000 will be earmarked for the construction of a naval dock at Sydney. That, I understand, will be the first instalment. As the construction of the dock will take three years, I fail to see any good reason for starting it at this time. I hope, and 1 am sure that hope is shared by every member of this Parliament, that the war will be over long before the dock can bo completed. Therefore, expenditure on that work at this juncture can hardly be justified. The money could be put to better use on other defence projects. If. the dock had been started five years or even three years ago, the work would have been nearing completion now, and it would have been of some use to the nation in connexion with its war effort. 

 Senator Mc-BRIDE -  How long does tho honorable senator think that the war will last? 
I cannot say, but as the construction of the dock will take about three years, it can hardly be of an' value as a defence measure. 
 Senator Fraser  is unable to say how long the war will last, but judging from his remarks, he apparently believes that it will soon end. I sincerely hope that he is light. He objects to the construction of the dock because the work will take about three years. Are we to assume that he takes the same view of shipbuilding, because ships, also take one or two years to build ? The Government  ha3  acted on the advice of experts, and intends to make an immediate start upon the construction of the dock. 
I fail to  3ee  any connexion whatever between the construction of a naval dock and the Government's shipbuilding programme. And may I add that if the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  and the Government were always so interested in shipbuilding, they have had ample opportunity to start on that industry during recent years. I maintain that it would be in the best interests of the people if the £1,000,000 to be set aside for dock construction were applied to shipbuilding, and I am convinced that this opinion is held by many thousands of people in  thi3  country. 
It is not my intention to follow my leader  (Senator Collings)  and assist the Minister to pilot this measure through the committee. I have no doubt that the Minister in charge of the bill is much obliged to my leader for his explanation of one or two items in the schedule. I agree that the matter raised by  Senator Fraser  with regard to the proposal to spend. £1,000,000 as a first instalment for the construction of a graving dock at Sydney is causing a good deal of discussion amongst the people, and I should like further information about it. The Labour party has always favoured a vigorous shipbuilding programme, to which, at last, the Government has somewhat reluctantly given its approval. But, having regard to the present war situation, many people are wondering if it would not. be more advisable at this stage, to spend an additional £1,000,000 on the construction of aeroplanes- instead of on the dock? People generally are so apprehensive about the immediate future, and about the lack of initiative on the part of Commonwealth Ministers, that I am sure they would welcome an expansion of the Government's activities in connexion with our Air Force. On that aspect of Australian defence, the Labour party has always given a definite, lead. Ministers now have, apparently with some reluctance, come round to our view. This proposed expenditure on the dock is belated. That work should have been started years ago, instead of at this eleventh hour and in the midst of a world crisis.   Senator Fraser  has expressed the thoughts that are in the minds of many thousands of Australians in connexion with the proposal for the construction of a dock. But I give to it my approval and trust that the Government will get on with the work as soon as possible. 
Our Leader in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  has expressed exactly the opinion voiced by  Senator Fraser  this evening. We do not deny the need in Australia for a graving dock capable of accommodating capital ships;  but  we do say that, at this juncture, there is no evidence that we can afford to spend £1,000,000 as a first instalment on what will bc a costly undertaking, which, however valuable it may bc at some future date when completed, cannot possibly bc of immediate value in our war effort. The Government has had in its possession for some considerable time the Savile report on this subject, and we contend that, .the work should have been proceeded with long ago. 
For some time, 1. understand. At all events, Ministers have had the report long enough to know their own minds. This Government and earlier governments of the same political character knew many years ago that Germany was preparing for this war, and it should have taken steps to put Australian defences in a more efficient state. 
 Senator Sheehan  has just mentioned something that was demanded by Labour' members of this Parliament several years ago. We told the Government definitely that the next war would probably be decided in the air, and we urged succeeding governments to take all measures necessary to establish a strong air force. As a matter of fact, the Leader of our party in the House of Representatives, speaking on sound technical advice, told the Government the number of air squadrons that would be required effectively to defend Australia against aggression. I agree with the remarks that have already been made with regard to the proposal to construct a dock. Although we do not intend to ask for a reduction of the vote- we have declared that we intend to support .the Government in its war effort - we do suggest that this £1,000,000 could be expended more wisely. 
.- Will this be the last opportunity that we shall have for the discussion of the 'proposed construction of a graving dock in Sydney ? 
I shall be obliged if the Minister will tell me whether or not this will be the only chance we shall have to debate that subject. 
I assure honorable senators that the Government has carefully considered the objections that might be raised in connexion with the proposed construction of the graving dock at Sydney, and that the proposal has not been brought forward at the expense of any other aspect of the Government's defence programme. We know from the estimates that the great bulk of the materials to be used for the dock will bc produced in Australia, and that in its preliminary stages it will absorb a large number of unskilled workers. In the later stages of construction there will be a relatively small proportion of skilled tradesmen employed, but their employment will not interfere with other defence projects such as aeroplane construction.  Senator Sheehan  is always wise after the event. He is very fond of telling us wha t we should have done some years ago. Three years have elapsed since the first contract was let by the Government for the construction of aircraft in Australia, and that fact shows that, even then, the Government had some prescience of what might be required for the development of the Air Force. The Leader of the Opposition has made great play on the criticisms levelled at his party concerning the best kind of defence for Australia. I suggest to him 'that, although aircraft will undoubtedly play a big part in our defence preparations, we shall be' misled if we imagine that war- in Australia will be waged in the same way as it is in Europe tb-day. Whilst aircraft are playing a wonderful part in the operations there, it is most unlikely that they would figure so prominently in any attack that might be made in Australia. Of course, the technique of war is rapidly changing, and the expert advice that we might have received a year ago would be much modified by that obtained at the present time. The best way to keep up to date with our defence preparations is to act on the best advice available at the moment, and the Government is doing that, as far as lies in its power. 

 Senator CAMERON (Victoria) [9.17'. - The sum of £50,000 is proposed to be expended by the Department of Supply and Development in the training of toolmakers and tradesmen, but it will be necessary to expend a much larger sura than that on the training of these men, if the  Avar  lasts for any great length of time. Even if it should end soon, a larger sum than £50,000 should be provided. Before war was declared, a deputation representative of employers and organized labour requested that £30,000 be provided for the purpose of installing the most up-to-date machinery at the Melbourne Technical College for the purpose of training toolmakers. At, that time the State Government did not see fit to grant the request. Later, second-hand machines were purchased for training purposes. Being a past president of the Melbourne Technical College,  I  have taken a great interest in the work of teaching young men to become proficient tradesmen.  Large  numbers of them are anxious to take advantage of every opportunity afforded for technical training. 
that, if the Labour party had been in power, and had encouraged the production of aircraft for defence purposes several years ago, the machines would now be obsolete; but, if large aircraft factories had been established when the Labour party first drew attention  to  the importance  of  air defence, opportunities would have been available for the training  of  the 80,000 young men who now wish to serve in the Air Force. 
That  is  another matter. The Minister has not replied effectively  to  my contention. I am glad that the Government proposes  to  proceed with the construction of  a  graving dock. The first instalment of expenditure  on  this work will be £1,000,000,  and  will provide employment for many people. Although  it  is estimated  that  three years will  be  occupied  in  completing the dock, I consider that the expenditure  is  justified. 
 I desire  to  know whether the Government  is  quite certain that the floating dock  is  to be constructed on the most suitable site available. We are told that British naval docks are not built, in the chief commercial ports, but the Government, with the lust for centralization that  is  characteristic  of  Commonwealth ministries, proposes  to  put this dock  in  the very heart  of  Australia's greatest commercial port, Sydney. Statements have been made  on  behalf  of  the Government that the land required for the purpose between Pott's  Point  and Garden Island will be resumed, irrespective  of  the tremendous expenditure involved, and despite the fact that,  in  placing the dock  in  the heart  of  the commercial and main residential area  of  Sydney, the population  in  the immediate locality will be exposed to tremendous risks should the dock be attacked by an enemy. Apart from  the  report by  Sir Leopold  Savile, Admiral  Sir Reginald  Henderson recommended some  years  ago  that  Australia should have  two naval  bases, including docks.,  of  equal size and importance - one  at  Sydney and  the  other  at  Cockburn Sound, near Fremantle,  in  Western Australia, which  is  well sheltered, has an adequate depth of water, and  is  some distance from commercial centres. 
Yes, entirely, but £1,000,000 has already been expended at Cockburn Sound. Sydney has a bigger population, and consequently more votes, and the policy of centralization continues. I realize that in this instance the Government is acting on expert advice; but it lias also had professional advice from one of Britain's greatest admirals, who recommended that two naval bases and docks should be constructed in Australia. The tremendous Commonwealth expenditure already incurred at Cockburn Sound should be taken into consideration and the first dock should be built there before any outlay is undertaken in Sydney. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the site, but he will be in order in referring to the cost. 
Will the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  state whether apprentices or adults are to be trained as toolmakers and mechanics? Under the Empire air training scheme provision is made for the appropriation of £1,700,000 for maintenance, stores. &amp;c. ; £3,430,000 for training in Canada ; and £270,000 for other expenditure, making a total of £5,400,000. There is a further item of £559,000 for maintenance, repairs and stores. Under the heading of " Capital " there are additional items for aeroplanes and equipment, buildings and stores, aeroplanes and equipment, warlike stores and equipment and buildings and works totalling £16,254,000. Is the Minister in possession of details of the proposed expenditure? I also understand that the Government has decided to make available a certain number of aeroplanes to the British Government. Is the purchase money of those planes included in the amount set out in the schedule? The sum of £790,000 is provided for the establishment of an aircraft factory, but has any amount been appropriated for the purchase of the machinery to be installed in the factory? 
I am sure that  Senator Sheehan  does not expect me to be in possession of full details of the expenditure to be incurred on the items he mentioned. The aeroplanes to be made available to Great Britain are those which Great Britain offered to Australia as a gift, but owing to the exigencies of the moment it has been decided to allow the aeroplanes to remain in Great Britain.  Senator Cameron,  who referred at length to the training of toolmakers and tradesmen, urged an extension of the present plan. Recently a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers was held in Canberra on the subject of technical education, when it was decided to provide for a substantial expansion of the present training scheme. The £50,000 he mentioned is for the maintenance of the scheme, but iu the " capital " group there is another £43,000 for plant and equipment to be used by the trainees.- The Government is pushing on with the extension of the scheme so that  more apprentices and adults may be trained to equip them for important defence work which they are to undertake. I cannot give to  Senator Sheehan,  offhand, details of the expenditure on the specific items he mentioned; but if he requires information on any particular item I shall endeavour to obtain it for him. 
Unfortunately Western Australia, owing to its geographical position, is Unable to obtain a share of the work of manufacturing munitions. Whilst two shifts  of twelve hours are being worked in some of the factories in the eastern States, in Western Australia many mechanics are compelled to do unskilled work. Several days ago I pointed out that when technical men were sent abroad to undergo special training not one Western Australian was selected. A sum of £50,000 has been allotted for the purpose of training tool-makers and tradesmen. Can the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  give me an assurance that artisans in Western Australia, who are unemployed or engaged in unskilled work, will be given an opportunity to take advantage of this scheme? Should it not be possible to provide training facilities in Western Australia, I suggest that the Government would be justified in paying the fares of men of the class 1 have mentioned in order to enable them to enter training establishments to be set up under this scheme in the eastern States. The national register will disclose the number of these men. I point out to the Assistant Minister that the whole of the amount of £1,400,000, which he mentioned recently as having been set aside for the production of war material in Western Australia, has not been spent, in that State. I do not suggest that all of the material in question could be manufactured in Western Australia. However, 1" wish merely to correct the impression which the statement of the Assistant Minister is likely to convey. The Government would he still more justified in bringing artisans to the eastern States to be trained in this work if, as is probable owing to the shortage of skilled men, twelve-hour shifts are to be worked in some factories. The Government should abandon its policy of centralization in favour of the eastern States. I recall that the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron),  before he joined the Cabinet, expressed disapproval of such a policy, and I endorse what  Senator Johnston  has said in this respect. I. again urge the Government to provide facilities for the training of the men to whom I have referred. 
From the two schedules which we now have before us. it is apparent that allo cations in respect of certain kinds of work have, to some degree, been duplicated. In view of the enormous amount of money which the Government is nowseeking authority to borrow, we should scrutinize each item very closely in order to avoid wasteful expenditure. How does the Government intend to expend the sum of £50,000 which is allotted for the purpose of training tool-makers and tradesmen? Does it propose to subsidize technical schools, or to set up special schools for this purpose? Does it propose to train youths or adults in this class of work? The Assistant Minister's reply concerning the  aeroplanes  to be utilized in Great Britain under the Empire air scheme differs from a ministerial statement broadcast' over the national network this evening. According to that announcement the Commonwealth Government is making a fine gesture, and is presenting to the United Kingdom Government a certain number of aeroplanes. The Assistant Minister, however, stated that those aeroplanes had nothing to do with us at all. brit that the Commonwealth Government has merely asked the United Kingdom Government to reserve for its own use a number of aeroplanes originally intended for Australian defence purposes. I also ask the Assistant Minister to explain where the aeroplanes, equipment, buildings and stores, in respect of which ihe allocations in one schedule total £2,254,000, are to be located, and where the aeroplanes and equipment, war-like stores and. equipment, and buildings and works in respect of which. the allocations in the other schedule total £16,254,000, are to be located? Is any of this material to be located in Canada? 

 Senator McBRIDE (South AustraliaAssistant Minister for Commerce) 1 9.59].- The money allotted for technical training, will . mainly be expended on courses to be provided in existing schools, and the trainees will be mainly adults who already possess an elementary knowledge of' the jobs to which they are to be assigned. In regard to the supply of aeroplanes, the answer which I gave to  .Senator Sheehan  was quite correct, but I did not realize at the time the exact matter to which, he referred. It was announced over the air that aeroplanes now on order for Australia in America would he taken over by Great Britain. Obviously Great Britain will pay for those 'planes. None of their cost is included in this schedule. The £2,2541,000 to which the honorable senator referred is for the provision, of buildings, stores, equipment, &amp;c, for our ordinary air defence scheme. As the Empire air scheme is being contributed to by Great Britain, it is being kept entirely separate from our- own air defence scheme. 
I am not able to give  Senator Fraser  an assurance that a substantial proportion of this money will be expended in Western Australia. The main centres in which technical  training is to be carried out are Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide, and, up to the present, no arrangements have been made for any substantial training scheme in respect of Western Australia. The Government is just as desirous as is  Senator Fraser  to distribute expenditure and the training of defence- personnel as equitably as possible throughout Australia, but, owing to the urgency with which that training must be undertaken, the money cannot be spread to the same extent as il might have been in normal times. 
The location of the proposed graving dock for capital ships was raised by  Senator Johnston. 'Sir Leopold  Savile who came to Australia and made a thorough examination of all suggested  ?ite3,  recommended Sydney as the most suitable location for the dock, not only from the point of view of cost, but also because of the fact that Sydney is most conveniently situated in relation to sources of available labour and raw material. The honorable senator said that the building of the dock in Sydney harbour would cause the cost to be much greater, but I assure him that  Sir Leopold  Savile's finding was that .the Sydney ?.ite would be the cheapest of all those which he examined. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill, read a third time. 
 This bill appropriates a sum of money for the purpose of carrying on war services until the end of June of this year, and details of the expenditure are shown in the schedule. There is no need to debate the bill, as it is purely a machinery measure. 
.- A portion of the money to be raised by this bill is to be devoted to " pay and allowances in the nature of pay ", to members of the Commonwealth Military' Forces. I should like to know whether or not some of this money will he paid to members of the garrison battalion to recompense them for expenditure which they have incurred in connexion with their duties. It was not until some months after these men entered camp that uniforms were provided, and, in the meantime, some of them were put to the expense of purchasing uniforms and underclothing. They were informed that they would be reimbursed that expenditure, but no payment has been made. I trust that the Government will see that the claims of these men are promptly dealt with. They receive only a pittance in military pay, and some of them, when they entered camp, borrowed money to pay for uniforms and underclothing which they were compelled to have. They were provided with a list of what to take to camp, and were required to fill in forms showing what items they had purchased and the cost of them. Until the beginning of this week at any rate, no compensation had been paid to them. Representations have been made to the Minister, but have met with no success, and I trust that the money to be appropriated by thic measure will enable the Government promptly to fulfil its promises. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee : 

Clauses  i  to 4 agreed to. 
The schedule. 
I should like to know whether or nol this bill makes .provision for the payment of compensation to soldiers who are injured while in camp, and are discharged f rom the Army on account of those injuries. 

 Senator AMOUR (New South Wales)  1  10. .1.1].  -  I support  Senator Aylett's  inquiry. A soldier who was employed in a camp as a cook was injured while carrying a side of beef. He was conveyed to the Randwick Military Hospital and treated for bronchitis. He was X-rayed and attended by a specialist, but the authorities refused to pay any compensation to him. He was a married man with five children, and but for the aid given by a charitable organization, his family would have had no food. A certain person in Randwick telephoned to me and drew my attention to the plight of these people, who, although the soldier had been in hospital for three weeks, had been paid no money. I communicated with the Finance Officer at the Water Board Office, but was unable to secure any information. Eventually, the soldier was paid £5 from an encouragement fund. _ [ should like to know whether that encouragement fund will be financed under this bill; if not, how has the fund accumulated? I submit that the Government should pay to soldiers who are injured in camp the same compensation as is paid to employees in industry. 
 If a soldier is injured while he is in camp, his ordinary military pay continues until such time as he is discharged. After his discharge, he is .paid under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The Government will shortly bring down a Repatriation Bill relating to soldiers of the Australian Imperial Force, and when that measure comes to this chamber honorable senators will be given ample opportunity to discuss these matters. I do not know anything of the encouragement fund mentioned by  Senator Amour. 
 I assure the Assistant Minister for Commerce  ('Senator McBride)  that there is an encouragement fund, and if it is not being financed by the Government, it must be receiving money from members of the division. 
I direct the attention of the Minister to another instance of unnecessary expenditure in the training of soldiers and unfair treatment of them upon their discharge. One young man 1 know completed his training in camp in New South Wales and embarked for overseas. When the vessel arrived in Western' Australian waters he was taken off the ship and discharged. This man left a good job to join the Australian Imperial Force and was in camp for several months. Upon his return to Sydney he was unable to find employment and, so far as I know, he is still out of work. 
 Was his discharge from the Australian Imperial Force due to illness? 

 Senator AYLETT (Tasmania) [10.18'J. - I should like to know whether the schedule covers volunteers in the militia forces. I know of one young man who volunteered to serve in the Militia and while in camp met with an accident and was placed in hospital. After his discharge from hospital, the military authorities offered him £3 10s. a week as compensation for the time that he had been ill. He signed the necessary document and returned it to the department, but, instead of receiving payment, he was asked to sign another document consenting to accept £1 a week  which, he was informed, was all that he was entitled to. "Will that compensation come out of the amount of £1,500,000 provided in this schedule? 
Since the  18th  April last I have been endeavouring to obtain some information with regard to military matters, and I  am  wondering whether the subject is covered by this schedule. On that date I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether certain locations being utilized or proposed to be utilized by the Defence Department, for military purposes had been abandoned or were about to be abandoned, and if so what amount of expenditure was involved. The Minister, in reply, stated that considerable expenditure would be incurred in compiling the information, and I informed him that .1 would be satisfied if I could get the particulars for Victoria. Can the Minister now say if provision is made in this schedule for such payments? 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
, - In to-day's Melbourne  Herald  there appears the following statement, attributed to Brigadier-General W. H. Lloyd, the Director-General df Recruiting: - 
If Australia did not have conscription, the people should see that voluntary service was equal to what conscripted service might be. 
That statement was made at. a meeting of citizens in Geelong. I should like te know whether it was made with the authority of the Government, and if not, will Brigadier-General Lloyd be told about it? The  voluntary  system for enlistment is providing more recruits than can be handled by the authorities, so there is no reason whatever for such a provocative statement. If further pronouncements of this nature are made, I imagine that the military authorities will hear a great deal about the matter from members of this Senate. Conscription is not necessary to obtain men either for overseas service or for the defence of Australia itself. Conscription is favoured solely for financial reasons. We have been told that the shirkers must be made to do their duty. Shirkers are few and far between. If the Government is now acting in collaboration with military authorities in trying to .stampede the people into accepting conscription, the support which the Government desires for its war effort, and which it should have from members of this Parliament, will not be so readily forthcoming. The people of Australia arc fully seised of the seriousness of the war situation. Whenever an appeal is made to them, as it is being made now, the response will Ih- far more satisfactory than it would he in other circumstances. But if, in the  face  of assurances which we have had from the Government from time to time, high military officers are allowed to make statements implying that the results of the voluntary system are not satisfactory and that conscription must be resorted to, friction is bound to arise. Will the Minister say whether this statement was made by the authority of the Executive, and. if so, will the Minister indicate clearly the intentions of the Government? 
for his readiness to grant me a pair during my absence from Australia. 
Before my departure I would like to mention certain things which I consider are urgently necessary in the interests of the Empire and Australian defence. I want to make it clear, however, that I am not offering these comments in a spirit of criticism. At the outbreak of the Avar the Commonwealth Government intimated to the Government of the United Kingdom that Australia stood with Great Britain and intended to fight this Avar to the finish. It also asked Britain to say  what  was expected of Australia. Australia has done everything that Britain has asked it to do; hut, unfortunately, as circumstances have since proved, the advice that Britain  gave  was based on certain assumptions and on assurances given to it by General  Gamelin,  then Commander-in-Chief of the French forces, and probably by its  own  officers. I should say that that advice  was  to the effect that the Germans could not break through the Maginot line. The plan adopted by the Allies, and the plan  with  which Australia  was  asked to keep in step, was based on that assumption, which subsequent events have shown to be incorrect. The part that Australia has to play to-day is a very much greater and more important one than  was  premised some months ago. I submit that not only Britain, but also every part of the British Empire, is directly threatened. If Britain and France  were  defeated Australia would soon have to face an enemy on its own shores. 
That is true. To those who remain behind, is entrusted the responsibility of seeing, not only that those  who  go abroad are properly equipped, but also that Australia is properly defended. I urge the Government, as I have done for some time, to c.ill "up every male between the ages of 18 and 60 years for national service. The Government has the power to do that under the Defence Act; all that is needed is a proclamation. That would not mean that any man would necessarily be taken from his civil occupation immediately. It would not, and could not, result in conscription for Over.seas service, but the Government could call up every male, between the ages that I have mentioned, to serve as, and when, required. If the Government needs mechanics is it not right, in a time of crisis, that it should not be able to call upon them, since there are thousands of them in workshops and garages throughout Australia doing work that is in no sense Avar  work?  Under this proclamation, it would have the right to take such men as it requires for aircraft production. My suggestion is that the Government should exercise the powers that it already possesses under the Defence Act, not to call up men immediately and take them from their civil occupations, but to draft  them to the various spheres where they could be most usefully employed, as and when they  were  required. 
I also urge the Government to make more use of ex-servicemen than is being made of them at. the present time. I have been ' in a militia training camp for four months in the last six months. When officers who served with the old Australian Imperial Force have come into camp', T have ' heard the men say,  "Heavens  : '.these' officers do not know elementary drill orders " ; but at the end of a week, the same men have said, " Tho best officers Ave have are these ex-service men".  It is admitted that they are not up to date in their knowledge of methods of drill, but,  with  their experience, they do not take long to prove their ability to command troops and to train them in the way in  which  they should be trained. Ex-service men should be used for the training of the additional numbers of men which, I contend, should be put under training immediately. 
Without any cost to the Government, thousands of men are asking to be trained during evenings and at  week-ends.  They do not ask for uniforms; they are prepared to turn out in flannels, or any other costumes. They want to know .  how  te use tlie rifle and the machine gun. On the one hand, we have ex-officers saying, " Can we not do something to help in the training" and, on the other hand, civilians are asking, " Can we not be trained ? All that we want is an opportunity to use our leisure time, so that, if Australia were attacked, we could  play  our part as efficient trained soldiers ". 
At the present time, many militia officers are enlisted in. the Australian Imperial Force. They are familiar with the latest methods of warfare, but some of them have been rejected as medically unfit, and have been discharged from the Australian Imperial Force and also from the Militia. Some of them feel that a penalty is being imposed for enlistment in the Australian Imperial Force.  As  (hey were prepared to offer their lives for their country, their services should bo retained as militia officers for the training of the home forces. They may be medically unfit for service overseas, but they are still capable of training men, as they have done in the past. I urge the Government to use this available manpower. 
Some weeks ago, I referred to Australia's home defence. I pointed out that our military advisers, with whom I entirely agree, are of opinion that, while the British fleet remains at Singapore, an attack on Australia by a. large army is unlikely; but what is quite likely is a raid, either from the air or from an enemy cruiser. It is against such an attack that we must prepare. If honorable senators were standing on th» steps of Parliament House to-morrow, looking over the beautiful green lawns to the hills iti the background, and suddenly saw a plane from which -twenty armed men, whom they knew to be enemies, were dropped, what would they do? They would probably rush to a telephone, and  ring  up the local police, who are probably armed with batons and, possibly, revolvers. What could be done to combat a force of twenty men armed with machine guns? What could Canberra do about it? Does anybody know at what centres ammunition is available throughout Australia ? Is there a force in each  town  and hamlet that could withstand an attack by parachute troops? When I mentioned this matter on the last occasion, the press stated that, if such troops were landed in the north-western portion of Australia, they would starve; but I point out that parachute troops land, not On a desert, but on golf links in a town. If parachute troops landed in Canberra, how could we  repel  them ? We could ring up Duntroon, but, whether a supply of ammunition would be available there, I do not know. I  hope  that the Government does. Other countries have smugly and complacently imagined themselves to be perfectly safe, but. through being unprepared, have been overcome by small forces. Australia must not be left in that predicament. At every police station throughout the Commonwealth, there should be ammunition, antiaircraft guns, and machine guns. Attached to each station, or under some person in authority, should be at least 30 volunteers trained in the use of those  weapons,  so that, if a landing were made by enemy troops, they could be dealt with immediately. It, will perhaps be suggested that the picture I have painted is fantastic. It was regarded as fantastic in other countries. We heard about the parachute troops that  Russia  landed in Finland, and we were told that they had not .proved effective, but they have proved effective in other countries. Germany has aircraft carriers which take on board a number of aeroplanes, and aeroplanes carry troops. Members of the German death squad have the courage to descend from aeroplanes in parachutes. Despite the magnificent British fleet at Singapore, no naval force in the world could prevent a raider from descending on our shores. 
raider might carry 50, 100, or even a few thousand troops. Such a suicide squad could not conquer Australia, but it could do tremendous damage unless we were prepared to resist it. Possibly the Government has evolved a plan. Those who are going abroad are entitled to know that every effort is being made to ensure that Australia will not be attacked by suicide squads either from the air or from the sea. I believe that it is admitted in all quarters that defence involves a matter of high mobility. Australia is a country of huge distances, and provision should be made whereby troops can bc moved rapidly from one centre to another, and for bicycle corps and motor cycle corps equipped with machine guns which can move readily from place to place and attack raiding parties that may land at any particular spot. 
I also ask the Government to expedite enlistments in the Empire air training scheme. I know that it has done an extraordinarily good job, but in view of the. seriousness of the situation the scheme must he developed more rapidly. We must have bombers. The statement read by the Minister disclosed that we are making training and fighting planes, and anyone who has visited the Commonwealth aircraft factory must realize that those responsible for that undertaking are doing wonderful work. Australia is under a debt of gratitude to the designers and erectors of those great works, which to-day are manufacturing aeroplanes as efficiently and as rapidly as they are being manufactured in any part of the world. All the material used, with the exception of magnesium and aluminium, which have to be imported,, is manufactured in Australia.  Mr. Hartnett, Mr. Wackett  and others who are responsible for the control of the operations at the Commonwealth air factory deserve our sincere gratitude for the excellent services they are rendering to Australia. They have done their work well, and many fine fighters are being produced from that factory. This week I placed before the Prime Minister a proposal under which Australia should be able to manufacture bombers within five months, and I trust that it will be favorably considered. The only bombers we can get are those which we manufacture ourselves. The proposal was made by a company which will not fail in its obligations; it has never yet done so. 
On the subject of equipment there has been a good deal of criticism of Ministers; but it is only fair to say that they cannot do more than appoint departmental heads whose responsibility it is to carry out the work. We have to admit that certain equipment is not coming to band. The members of the Seventh Division of the Australian Imperial Fore( who are being enlisted in South Australia have not been supplied with shirts, singlets and underpants. When I came to Canberra I explained the position to the Minister for Supply and Development, who said, ''What! Are they not getting them?" Had the Minister known, the necessary equipment would have been supplied. He now knows the position. If some of these departmental heads will not do their jobs we should get. men who will do what is expected of them. Of course the Minister has to take the responsibility but it is unfair that he should be required to take all the kicks for everything that goes wrong. When I brought the matter under the notice of the Minister he said, " That equipment will be provided on Monday next ". 1 venture to say that when I return to South Australia and enter camp on Monday the shirts, singlets and underpants will have been supplied. Unfortunately, the Minister never hears of such things. I urge the Government now, as 1 have done before, to appoint a liaison or welfare officer to act between Ministers, officers and the department - a man to whom the men can bring their complaints. The non-commissioned officers are not growlers. We never hear complaints from them. They are as anxious as is any one else to see that the organization is 100 per cent, efficient, but they are not allowed to complain. There is too much " hush-hush " in the Army. If complaints are made some one is placed on the mat. Complaints must go through a certain channel. A welfare officer could go in to camp and say, " Well chaps, are you getting what you need ? " They may say that they are getting everything but, say singlets ; the welfare officer would pass the word on, and the singlets would be provided. The shelves in big stores in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide are stocked to capacity with the things that are needed, but members of the Australian Imperial Force cannot be supplied with their requirements. The fault lies not in the policy of the Government, but in the inefficiency of blundering officials. Someone has fallen down on his job; but it is difficult to ascertain who is responsible for the failure. I told the Minister that although I had been in camp for three months a dummy round for the  18-pounders  could not be provided, and we had to imagine that we were doing what we would have been doing had the dummy been available. A wooden dummy filled with shot could have been made within a few hours. A requisition was put in on the first day we were in camp, but the dummy was never supplied. As I was a soldier I was not allowed to write to the Minister, but when I came out of camp 1 told him. He said that what had occurred was disgraceful  and  he could not explain it. I am not criticizing the Government's defence policy; the departmental heads and junior officers in charge of supplies arc responsible. There are some very good men, but there is a good deal of bungling somewhere which should be corrected at the earliest possible moment. The way to do that is by appointing a liaison or welfare officer who is not bound by the regulations which provide that no commissioned officer or non-commissioned officer shall make a complaint to any member of Parliament. The men should be able to bring their grievances under the notice of a. welfare officer who would immediately take the necessary steps to have them rectified. The victualling and the system of training are excellent; but it is the little things that are causing all the friction. At Woodside, South Australia, where the members of the Seventh 
 Division of the Australian Imperial Force are in training there are four dentists and eight dental mechanics but there is only one old dental chair and one drill for their use. They should have at. least four chairs, but they really need eight. Are the men in training there to go abroad before their teeth have received proper attention? When I mentioned the matter to the Minister he said that lie knew nothing about it, and that it would be attended to immediately. I have seen these things with my own eyes, and all of them "could be dealt with speedily by a welfare officer. I have been told that an officer has been appointed for this purpose, but I have not seen him. 
If a complaint were made in an artillery regiment the  Battery  Commander would pass the complaint to the Brigadier, who would pass it. ku to the State Commandant, who would Forward it to the Southern Command whence it would be forwarded to the Military Board, and by the time it had reached head-quarters and found its way back by the same circuitous route the trainees would have left the camp. 
I have received the following letter from the  president  of the Australian Dental Association, dated the 23rd May, 1940- 
At a meeting of the South Australian brand held last night, it waa reported that the provisions for dental services for the Australian Imperial Force were grossly deficient. It would appear from the report all supplies for military purposes in this State must be procured through the head-quarters of the Southern Command in Victoria. 
The facts, as regards, were as follows: - 
Full personnel for the continuous service of four dental officers (with the necessary dental mechanics, orderlies, clerks, &amp;c. ) had been summoned to report for duty for the treatment of Australian Imperial Force recruits as from Monday next. 
The dental equipment at Woodside at present consists of one dental operating chair and one dental foot machine; in fact it is efficient for one dental officer as a field unit, but falls short of efficiency as a base unit. 
In these circumstances, i.t would appear that less than one-quarter of the necessary treatment can be given at present. By contact, it is understood that in Victorian camps the most modern dental equipment is fully installed and consequently the dental units are enabled to handle large numbers of men with efficiency and expedition. 
I can quite understand that, because it was intended to send all of the Australian Imperial Force to Puckapunyal. However, that policy has now been changed, unfortunately, I. think, and as the result it is only natural that camps in Victoria should be efficiently fitted up. At the same time, it does not seem right that dentists should be sent into camp without essential equipment. The letter continues -  
It is felt that the experience of the last war 1914-18 cannot be overlooked. Once soldiers arrive in the war area, military exigencies may not permit of full remedial measures being taken to render those who are dentally unfit being made so before being engaged in active operations. In present circumstances, enlisted nien in South Australia may have  to  be sent abroad as less effective because less' prepared physically as compared with  men from  other States. 
Let it be emphasized that dental officers are here ready and willing to give their services, but nothing can be done without adequate equipment. 
May we beg you, sir, to take up this mutter with the Defence Minister and to use your best endeavours to secure immediate relief. 
Mollis faithfully, 
H. J. FISCHER, 
 I wish to bring under the notice of the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride),  as representing the Treasurer, a matter in respect of which a considerable saving can be effected if the suggestion' which 1 am about to make be acted upon. All honorable senators are aware of the procedure followed by the Treasury in order to stabilize interest rates. For the service they render on behalf of the Treasury in that respect, stock and share brokers charge 5s.  per cent.  The practice followed is that the Treasury asks certain members of the stock exchanges in Sydney and Melbourne to buy treasury bonds up to a certain amount. Very little work is involved in this transaction. The suggestion now has been made on behalf of brokers operating on the two exchanges that they would be prepared, in view of existing circumstances, to spread this work among their colleagues, so that this job could be done at no cost to the Treasury. At the present time nol. more than seven, or eight, brokers on the Sydney Exchange, and probably a lesser number on the Melbourne Exchange, do this work for the Treasury. It is well known that brokers receive a very large remuneration for buying and selling treasury bonds on behalf of private clients. Particularly is this the case when a new loan is being floated. A reply given to a question in this chamber last week gives some idea of the remuneration for this work. I suggest that the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  should ask the chairmen of the Sydney and Melbourne stock exchanges that this work be spread among all members of both exchanges, and that it be handled at no cost to the Treasury. I feel certain that such a proposal will be accepted. Whilst the charge for this service is comparatively low, the total cost is fairly considerable. In view of existing circumstances, the Treasury should be assisted as much as possible in its efforts to stabilize interest rates, and I am sure that members of the exchanges I have mentioned would -be only too willing- to co-operate in the manner I have indicated. 
 In my speech on the Address-in-Reply I advocated the formation of a national government, and urged honorable senators opposite to follow the example set by the Labour party in the Mother Country. In the meantime the war has taken a grave turn., and considerable unrest has developed in country districts among loyal and public-spirited citizens, who consider that a greater measure of unity should be achieved in the national parliament in the prosecution of our war effort. Many meetings have been held at country centres, at which this view has been made manifest. I have received quite a number of resolutions of that kind, and I am sure that honorable senators generally have noticed many that have been published in the press. Only to-day I received the following telegram : - 
Tinkurrin  meeting urges full mobilization all resources and immediate formation national government under now leader if necessary or, alternatively, national war cabinet under Lord Gowrie. 
Murray. 
This statement, I suggest, reflects the feeling of unrest in country districts, and the desire of our people as a whole, that a national government should be formed and that they should be given greater opportunities for public-spirited national service. I commend it to honorable senators. 
Speaking on the financial statement this afternoon, I said that South Australia at the present time waa capable of building only punts. At the time, I was dealing with the Government's proposal to revive the shipbuilding industry. Subsequently  Senator James  Mclachlan informed me that slips are being laid down at Whyalla, on which it will be possible to build vessels up to  -20,000  tons. I take this opportunity to say how pleased I am to receive that information, and to wish the enterprise every success. It ia indeed heartening to hear of the establishment of an important industry in any of the outer States. 
The speech just delivered by  Senator Wilson  was excellent and showed that within recent months, in addition to serving his country as a soldier, he has been making a careful examination of conditions existing in military camps. I agree with him that half of the complaints made concern only minor matters, but those matters  aTe  irritations which arouse much comment unfavorable to the Government. I assure honorable senators that the Government does not intend to adopt a cheese-paring policy in equipping our military forces. When we originally launched our programme, owing to the rush of volunteers and the work of recruiting a division' for despatch overseas, a great deal of difficulty was experienced in providing equipment. Today, however, that, work has been accelerated.  Senator Wilson  will readily agree that the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  has worked like  a  Trojan since he took over the control of his department, and I feel sure that the difficulties which the honorable senator enumerated will shortly he overcome. I shall bring under the notice of my colleague; the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street),  the whole of the honorable senator's remarks, particularly his suggestion for the appointment of liaison or welfare ameers. I understood that sufficient staff was available in the ordnance section to ensure that the* requirements of the various units would be  met. The honorable senator suggests that the Minister should appoint special inspectors to report to him direct. I do not know whether that procedure can readily be followed. 
I am sure I am expressing the feelings of all honorable senators when I say how much we appreciate the fact that' Sena-' tor Wilson himself, in answer to the call of duty, has enlisted in the . Australian Imperial Force. We shall miss him very much from this chamber, because he has distinguished himself as a hard fighter, and a fearless, but just, critic. We look forward to the day of his return, after victory has been achieved,' as we are confident it will he achieved. We can rest assured that  Senator Wilson,  in whatever capacity he may be called upon to serve, will carry out his duties as a soldier just as faithfully as he has carried out his duties as a senator. We wish him well, and applaud his patriotism in giving his services in the Australian Imperial Force. 

 Senator Johnston stated that a certain amount of unrest existed among people who desired to take a more active part in the service of their country at the present time. Some of these people, he said, were urging the formation of a national government, and others were desirous of rendering help in any capacity in which their services could be utilized. A certain amount of unrest is bound to exist at present, because we all are on tenterhooks, waiting for the latest news to come through, and wondering what is happening in Flanders and on the Somme where the Allied troops are now fighting. Fired with a natural patriotism for their country and- the Empire, many people are eager to know what they can do in this time of crisis. The number of letters which have been received by the Government - and no doubt by private members - containing offers of assistance in any capacity, is surprising. Only to-day I received a communication from one of the biggest and most successful contractors in Queensland offering, free of charge, his full-time assistance in tin? construction of the new graving dock at Sydney. Many similar letters have been received by the Government. To those people who feel that they are not doing  as  much as they would like to do, I say that it is of the utmost importance thai Australian industries be carried on, and that there bc no serious disruption of the economic life of this country. For that reason, those now engaged in industry, far from not contributing a valuable service to the nation, are doing very important and necessary work. Primary producers, factory workers and others - all are carrying their share of our great responsibility. 
The Government agrees with  Senator Wilson  that it is necessary to take men from non-essential services and place them in vital industries, and at the moment it is taking steps to secure recruits from various trades for service in the Royal Australian Air Force, whilst technical instruction is being given to men who have had no previous experience. It is hoped that by voluntary enlistment in the various arms of our fighting forces we shall be able to secure all the man-power necessary for n successful prosecution of our war effort. 

 Senator Wilson suggested that in addition to the Militia, a special defence organization should be set up in this country to deal with such dangers as landings by parachute troops, and internal disorders. I assure the honorable senator that the Government is giving very full consideration to this problem at the present time, and an announcement will be made very shortly. 
I am hopeful that the announcement will be made before Parliament adjourns, but if it is not, it will be made at the earliest possible date. The Government is fully occupied in dealing  with  many urgent and vital matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, whether the Government authorized, or approves of the following statement, reportedby the Melbourne  Herald,  on Thursday, the 20th May, as having been made by Brigadier-General W. H. Lloyd at a meeting of citizens, held at Geelong on the previous evening: - 
If Australia did not have conscription, then the people should see that the voluntary service was equal to what conscripted service mightbe? 
I have no knowledge of the speech said to have been delivered by Brigadier-General Lloyd, but it seems to me that he was hopeful that the voluntary system, which Australia has approved 
SenatorFOLL. - The honorable senator asked his question in his own way. 1 intend to answer it in my way. BrigadierGeneral Lloyd is doing a very important work in securing recruits under the voluntary system for Australia's war effort. I interpret that portion of his speech to which the honorable senator has directed attention to mean that he hopes that the voluntary system will be a success and will bring forward the requisite number of troops for the defence of Australia and assistance to the Empire. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer - (1) How many companies registered in Victoria have been given permission to raise capital by public subscription for the search for oil; (2) what are the names of the companies; (3) what are their respective amounts of capital; (4) what are the dates on which permission was granted ? 
A question framed in similar terms was asked by the honorable senator a few days ago. In reply, the Treasurer said definitely that all such applications were confidential and that he did not feel disposed to release the information. 
Order ! The Minister has supplied the answer. The honorable senator must not debate it. 
I ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce whether the name of any company or every company which approaches the Government with an application for permission to raise capital is kept secret? 
Is it not a fact that information has been published in the newspapers in respect of certain companies which have made application to the Capital Issues Committee? 
I ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce whether he can inform us when the next payment on wheat delivered to the 1940 pool is likely to be made and how much will be the advance? This information will be acceptable to honorable senators representing distant States, because upon our return we shall be besieged with inquiries about this matter. 
The payment will be made as soon as practicable, and honorable senators will be advised at the earliest possible moment. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether it is true, as stated in the press that, prior to his death, the, former Prime Minister,  Mr. Lyons,  approached.  Mr. E.  G. Theodore with a view to securing his services as organizer of the resources of Australia? 
I do not know. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army whether in view of the revelations made in this chamber last evening by  Senator Wilson  with reference to the many disabilities encountered in training camps, due to the employment of red-tape methods, a thorough investigation will be made of the methods employed in all camps throughout Australia? 
SenatorFOLL. - I gave that assurance last night when replying to  Senator Wilson.  On behalf of the Minister for the Army, I can say that a thorough investigation is made of all legitimate complaints. It is the desire of the Government that the whole of the machinery for the training of recruits should work as smoothly as possible. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce inform the Senate whether the Government has yet approved of proposals to declare Albany and Gerald ton wool appraisement centres for the coming season? 
The Government has not yet reached a decision in regard to that matter. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development been directed to statements appearing in the  Daily Telegraph,  Sydney, containing charges against the department in respect of the supply of Bren guns, tanks, aeroplanes and other war equipment? If so, will he ask the Minister to furnish  a  categorical answer to the charges, in order that the people may be informed about the position? 
It is quite impossible for the Minister for Supply and Development to answer every charge that is made in the newspapers in connexion with his department. I can, however, say that the Minister and all members of the Government are doing everything that is possible to expedite the delivery  of  materials necessary for the defence of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
On what grounds does the Minister base his statement that there are no marginal wheat areas in the State ofVictoria? 
If proof is given that there are such marginal areas, will the Minister reconsider his decision not to grant to the State of Victoria any part of the fund set apart for this purpose? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The Minister has not made any such statement. He invited all States to submit plans for dealing with the marginal areas problem, but the State of Victoria did not submit an acceptable scheme. The onus of proof of the existence of a marginal areas problem is on the State governments. 
The decision already made is final. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Treasurer to disclose the source from which he expects to raise the interest-free loan of £5,000,000? 
Is it the intention of the Government to obtain this interest-free loan from the Commonwealth Bank? 
The Treasurer has now supplied the following answer :  - 
The source is the people of Australia. A continuous flow of money is being received by the Treasury from all sections of the community, who have expressed their desire to lend their money, interest free, to the Government for the duration of the war. Already more than £600,000 has come to the Treasury in this way. 
No. 
This is an agreement which, under existing economic conditions, should be ratified by Parliament; but whether we shall always be able to benefit economically under it is a subject which we need not debate at this juncture. The Opposition will not oppose the passage of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move- 
That thebill he now read a second time. 
The first purpose of this bill is to ratify an exemption, which was authorized by the Government to commence on and from the 3rd September, 1939, of  goods which are purchased, imported or manufactured by organizations not carried on for the profit of individuals, such as the Australian Comforts Fund, the Lord Mayor's Patriotic andWar Fund, New South Wales, the Young Men's Christian Association, Salvation Army, and other similar organizations, for donation to, or for the use, comfort or recreation of members of the Defence Forces of the Commonwealth. The classes of goods which are covered by the exemption include :  - 
Articles for the personal use and comfort of the forces, for example, socks, shirts, underwear, toilet requisites, &amp;c. 
Marquees, tents, huts, established at camps and elsewhere for the use of members of the forces. 
Furniture and fittings for such huts. 
Equipment for indoor and outdoor recreation. 
Urns, cooking stoves, crockery, cutlery, &amp;c., for serving food, &amp;c., to the troops. 
It is probably unnecessary for me to expound at any great length the virtues of the action proposed. Every one is well aware of the splendid service which is being rendered by organizations in their efforts to minister to the greater comfort, mentally and physically, of members of our fighting forces. The Government has not found it possible to extend the scope of the proposed exemption to individuals who may purchase goods for donation to the troops, not because the Government sees any material difference between the efforts made by individuals and those made by organizations; but because of a real practical difficulty in connexion with the purchases by individuals. The latter, as a rule, purchase small quantities of materials by retail at a point farbeyond the actual taxing point, and such purchases are made in hundreds of thousands of transactions. The identification of the sales tax in the selling price is almost impossible, and the amount, if ascertainable, discloses the retailers' margin of profit. Organizations on the contrary buy on a much larger scale in considerably fewer transactions, and the basis of buying is, in most cases, different. The Government has the same admiration for individual effort as for organized effort, and it suggests that if the conditions prevail by which organizations could obtain exemption, individuals desiring to bring their transactions into line for exemption might do so by arranging them through a regularly constituted organization. 
Provision is also made in the bill to extend exemption to goods for official use by the representatives of other nations in Australia. The present item covers trade commissioners and consuls, and the amendment now being made . is a natural result of this country's progress as a nation of the world. 
In the existing law an exemption is provided for exposed cinematographic films used to facilitate the circulation of international educational matter. The present item requires that a certificate of purpose be given. Since the original item was enacted, the certifying authority has been changed, and the clause now inserted rectifies the position. 
The opportunity presented by the introduction of this bill has alsobeen taken to remove two anomalies which, the Commissioner of Taxation reports, are causing administrative concern, and, because of the difficulties of interpretation in their present form, appear to have been extended far beyond what the legislature originally intended should be covered. The goods concerned are shortbread biscuits and medicated confectionery, and the proposal is to withdraw the exemption in both instances. Exemption on shortbread biscuits was granted originally, not because it was thought that shortbread biscuits qualified for exemption by being a basic foodstuff, but because of their allegedly close association with the products of pastrycooks, most of which had been exempted. It was thought that some competitive anomaly would arise if the manufacturers of biscuits were asked to pay the sales tax on shortbread biscuits whilst pastrycooks might escape the tax on shortbread products sold as cakes; so an exemption was enacted for shortbread biscuits. But the last position has proved worse than the first. Claims have been made in respect of all types of biscuits merely upon the ground that they contain some " shortening ". Probably any honorable senator, who has not attempted  to define what shortbread is in Australian commercial circles, will wonder why any difficulty should be experienced. He will have in mind the product for which Scotland is famed. But let him not imagine that his task would end so easily. Climatic conditions, marketing conditions, the varying quality of the ingredients, and the diversified tastes of the people of the whole Commonwealth and of those within the various States, have all played a part, it is claimed, in giving Australian shortbread a standard not necessarily the same as that in Scotland. The Commissioner of Taxation at first invoked the aid of outside expert opinion, but found variations between experts, who, however, would favour the exemption of a very wide range of " fancy " biscuits which appeared to him to be quite incompatible with the intention of the legislature. He next tried a fairly liberal, though inflexible, formula of ingredients, only to be met by flat refusal of manufacturers of certain biscuits whose products were deficient in some one or other ingredient, to pay tax. The Commissioner of Taxation now reports that in his opinion the exemption is not capable of satisfactory administration, and that the alleged trade anomaly which was feared when the exemption was granted will not, in fact, be experienced. The Government accordingly proposes to withdraw the exemption from Monday, the 3rd June, 1940. The annual benefit to the revenue from this course is estimated at £40,000. 
So far as medicated confectionery is concerned, exemption is obtained under item 38 of the Exemptions Act under the heading of " drugs and medicines for use in the prevention, cure or treatment of sickness or disease in human beings ". Medicated confectionery may be broadly divided into two classes, viz. - 
Products which have a definite therapeutic value, which are marketed for medicinal purposes only, and which are definitely unsuitable for consumption as sweetmeats, for example, " laxative chocolates ", " chocolatecoated worm tablets ", " iodized throat tablets " digestive lozenges ", &amp;c.; and 
products which, although they may contain a medicament (for example, menthol, liquorice or eucalyptus), and make some claim to therapeutic properties, are designed to appeal to consumers chiefly as sweetmeats, for example, barley sugar, menthol jubes, honey and glycerine jubes, eucalyptus jubes, voice jubes, &amp;c.). 
Acting on legal advice, the Commissioner of Taxation has allowed claims for exemption of medicated confectionery if it contains one or more active medicaments and is sold in containers which bear a definite printed claim that the contents are for the treatment of certain diseases. It is apparent, however," that exemption is being obtained on the abovementioned grounds in respect of a wide range of goods which would not ordinarily be classified as drugs or medicines and which are purchased by consumers primarily as sweetmeats, for example, barley sugar, honey and glycerine pastilles, throat jubes and pastilles, menthol pastilles, eucalyptus chips or drops, Irish moss gums or jubes, menthol and eucalyptus pastilles, black-currant and glycerine pastilles, cough drops, gums and pastilles, butter menthol drops, &amp;c. These products secure exemption because of the inclusion therein, in small quantities, of some medicament, and because they are claimed to be for the relief of sore throats, &amp;c. Other like products, for which no medicinal claims are made, are subject to tax. It. is considered that medicated confectionery of this nature is outside the intended scope of the exemption, and it is certain that the loss of revenue at present being sustained in this respect will  be  increased as manufacturers become aware of the conditions under which they can exploit exemptionof their products. It is estimated that the additional revenue which will be gained by the withdrawal of this exemption will amount to £20,000 per annum. Medicated confectionery will become taxable on and from the 3rd June, 1940. 
I commend the bill to honorable senators. I point out that, apart from the item relating to goods for the use of members of the defence forces and representatives of other countries, the pro- posals  will remove anomalies, and, at the same time, increase the annual revenue from sales tax by £60,000. 
3 hope- that I shall not be out of order in saying at this stage something which 3 shall probably be obliged to repeat a number of times during the day. It is regrettable that bills of this kind, and others, which we anticipate will ba brought before us later, should be submitted to us in such circumstances that we must consider them immediately, without having first been given an opportunity to study their contents. This is an intricate measure. I am not unmindful of the difficulties confronting the Government in getting its business through the House .of Representatives. But such difficulties appear to be inseparable from the conditions which prevail in this Parliament at the moment, and, apparently, always prevail when we are nearing the hour to go into recess. 
We shall not oppose this measure. Its two main objects are, first, to exempt goods which are used as comforts for our Defence Forces, and, secondly, to remedy certain anomalies involving administrative difficulties which departmental officers come up against in the course of their work'. With the first purpose of the bill, that is the ratification of an exemption which was authorized from the 3rd September, 1939, of goods purchased, imported or manufactured by organizations not carried on for the profit of individuals, as is the case in connexion with goods handled by the Australian Comforts Fund, the Lord Mayor's  Patriotic  War Funds, the Young Men's Christian Association and the Salvation Army, I am in accord. In this respect, however, I confess to the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  that I foresee difficulties arising, although I hope that they will not be insurmountable. [ wish to know whether any precaution will be taken to supervise the work of the thousands of individuals connected with funds and organizations of the kind I have mentioned. Undoubtedly these bodies are doing exceptionally worthy work. However, in Queensland during the last war, so much abuse occurred in connexion with appeals of this kind that the Government of that State was obliged to take over complete control and to refuse to allow any appeal to be issued except by people who were specifically authorized to do so. Close supervision of this work must he exercised in order to ensure that none of the goods, or donations, handled by the thousands of persons connected with these funds are used for purposes other than those for which they are collected. The Assistant Minister will readily perceive how easy it is to defeat the real object of these funds. Not only because of the complexities involved in the sales tax, but also because it is an indirect tax, the Opposition does not agree with the principle of it. However, the Government urgently requires this revenue at the present time, and these difficulties must be faced. Consideration of measures of this kind, as I said earlier, is not facilitated by the practice of the Government to rush through these measures during the closing hours of the session. 
With regard to the second purpose of the bill, I agree that many anomalies exist and that they should be cleared up as they are met with. Manufacturers have no patriotism in their souls. Their one god is profit. Immediately medicated sweetmeats, for instance, are exempt from sales tax, confectionery manufacturers get up to all the tricks possible in order to escape the tax. We find now that glucose is included in barley sugar. I again urge the Government to face up to its responsibility to ensure that  the charitable and patriotic appeals to which I have referred, and which aru meeting with such a splendid response in every part of the Commonwealth, are not injured by the tendencies of individuals who are not inclined to act honestly- in associating themselves with such work. 

 Senator CAMERON (Victoria) [11.10 j. - I protest against the Government's attempt to rush through a bill of this kind without giving honorable senators ample opportunity to deal with it intelligently. In moving the second reading, the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  made a very long and involved statement. No great mental effort was required on his part to make that statement. I assume that it was prepared for him by departmental officers, but when the statement appears in  Hansard,  readers will infer that the Assistant Minister for ^Commerce had given considerable thought to the matter, and had gone thoroughly into every detail of the measure in explaining it to the Senate, This procedure is a sham. I am prepared to assist the Government within reason, but when a procedure of this kind is adopted, each honorable senator should be provided with a copy of the Minister's statement in order that he may be enabled to follow clearly what the Minister is saying. Only in thi3 way can wo be enabled to discuss intelligently a measure that is rushed through all its stages as quickly as possible. One can only conclude that the intention of the Government in following this procedure is to  rush  through the bill, regardless of whether or not it is given due consideration. Measures treated in this way may be perfectly harmless, but on the other hand a particular measure may be exceedingly harmful. If an honorable senator does not demand an . opportunity to consider legislation on its merits, he must admit that he is merely a " Yes " man, in the sense that he is bluffed and stampeded by the Government into acquiescence. Personally I am not prepared to be classed in that category. If the Government expects to receive a reasonable measure of assistance from me in dealing with measures of this kind, I ask it to reciprocate by helping me to understand its legislation. When copies of the second-reading speeches are being made for Ministers and for the Leader of the Opposition, it is quite easy to run off additional prints for the use of honorable senators. With that information before us, we would be able faithfully to discharge our responsibilities. We are not able to do that at present, and so long as we submit to inconsiderate treatment, we shall be merely animated cogs in a political machine, and not very animated at that. I, for one, am not prepared to submit. I enter an emphatic protest now, and I ask the Government to take notice of it. Many bills have been passed through this chamber without discussion, because we were told that the Government desired their speedy passage owing to the pressure of war legislation. We took the Government's statement for granted, but I am afraid that because we have taken so much for granted, in the future we shall be expected to take everything for granted. I assure the Government that I shall not allow that to happen. I shall repeat this protest on every possible occasion, unless the Government is prepared to allow me reasonable facilities to examine its legislative proposals. 
I am not at all impressed with the socalled exemptions provided for in this bill. On paper, the principle of granting exemptions would appear to be a workable proposition, and it would seem that the Government is actuated by only the highest motives in granting exemptions where it believes that they are warranted. However, it is a perfectly easy matter for a retailer, should he be so disposed, to evade the exemptions, by increasing the prices of the lower-priced articles which are exempt, and lowering the prices of the higher-priced articles on which the . tax is payable. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said, unless this matter is handled in the proper manner, further anomalies will arise, and other delays and amendments will be necessary. The real benefit, which is the object of these measures, is not given. For that reason I am not impressed with the bill at all. I am ai a disadvantage in offering criticism, because I have not had an opportunity to study the bill closely, or  to  examine the case presented by the Assistant Minister for Commerce. Ministers frequently complain that they are unfairly criticized and that legislation is not debated on its merits, or in the way which the people have a right to expect. The blame for that lies with the Ministers themselves. They must expect mistakes to be made, and at times they must expect unfair criticism. That would not occur if the Ministers did not take so much for granted, and did not expect that we, on this side of the chamber, and their own colleagues, should calmly step into line whenever the Government calls the tune. That sort of thing shall not continue. If the Government desires to get through its business expeditiously, it must pave the way for smooth working in this chamber. Ifit is not prepared to do that, I shall not be willing to help in any way. 
 in reply  - I assure the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Cameron  that whilst the Government is desirous of disposing of business as expeditiously as possible, it does not wish to prevent full consideration of all legislation. The Government does not want honorable senators to believe that owing to a possible shortage of time, they must agree to its proposals without debate. 
The Commonwealth has not in fact taken any steps to control certain patriotic efforts that have been made in the various States, although in Queensland the State Government has taken action to exercise full control over such activities. The Commonwealth has brought in a system which it believes will ensure that there shall be as little exploitation of the exemptions as possible. The system provides for the issuing of certificates by duly appointed officers, and the making of false declarations in those certificates is an offence punishable under the Crimes Act. The exemptions have been made retrospective to September of last year. The department has found no undue administrative difficulties, and so far as we know, there has been no evasion of these exemptions. 
I recognize that it is difficult for honorable senators to assimilate second-reading speeches if they have not copies in front of them. Fortunately there are sufficient copies of the second-reading speech on the next bill to meet the requirements of honorable senators. The request that has been made by  Senator Cameron  will be noted, and I am sure that in the future the Government will meet the wishes of honorable senators, so far as may be practicable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (The schedule). 
I should like a little more information from the 
Assistant Minister in regard to a question that has been agitating the minds of many people in South Australia, namely the provision of refrigerators for military camps. Is that matter sufficiently covered by proposed new item 81a? If it is not I suggest that an amendment be made. Also, I assume that clause 4 of the bill makes the amendments retrospective, because I know that, following upon representations made by certain members from South Australia, the Taxation Department granted an exemption in this case. The refrigerators are manufactured in Australia, and have been donated for the comfort of troops in military camps. Sales tax should not be charged on them. 
I assure the honorable senator that the clause does cover the refrigerators, and that exemptions have already been granted on a number of refrigerators used for the purpose which he indicated. 
Yes. And the same clause makes the exemptions retrospective to September of last year. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
Thebill is designed to remove certain anomalies in the existing law which are at present causing serious and unjustifiable loss of revenue; they also present features of administration which, cause the incidence of the tax, in certain circumstances,, to be uneven and inconsistent. The first proposal is that section 17, sub-section 2, be amended to delete the excepting words thereof. In 1936 a suggestion was made in legal circles that the then existing legislation gave no authority for the collection of tax from a person who manufactured goods and applied them to his own use, unless the goods were of a class which that taxpayer himself sold in the ordinary course of his trade. 
The law was therefore amended by inserting sub-section 2 of section 17 which resolved the expressed doubt by adding the words - 
For the purpose of this section goods manufactured in Australia by a taxpayer and applied to his own use means goods manufactured in Australia in the course of carrying on a business and applied by the taxpayer to h*is own use whether for the purpose of that business or for any other purpose and whether or not those goods are of a class manufactured by that person for sale. 
But so that the law when adjusted to remove the disability might not err in the opposite direction and cause tax to be payable on all sorts of semi-manufactured goods used in the course of manufacture of other goods, an exception was made in the following terms: - but shall not include any goods so manufactured and applied if the taxpayer establishes to the satisfaction of the commissioner that goods of the same class and for the same particular class of use are not manufactured in Australia by the taxpayer or by any other person, for sale or for supply to some other person in the circumstances specified in subsection 4 of section 3 of the act. 
It was thus hoped that full legal authority would be given to the collection of tax on those goods which a manufacturer made for his own use, but which otherwise he would have had to purchase. I t was also hoped that those amendments would not cause tax to be payable upon other goods used as aids, but which were of a non-commercial character, for example, jigs, certain types of gauges, and tools. 
It soon became apparent, however, that the terms of the exception offered a means of establishing freedom from tax for a class of goods which the exception was never intended to cover. Notwithstanding the fact that the law places upon the taxpayer the task of establishing compliance with the conditions of the excepting provision, and that the Commissioner of Taxation has required rigid adherence to a comprehensive programme of proof, be now estimates that plant and machinery of an annual value of £400,000 is escaping the tax. At the present rate of tax, the sum lost to revenue in the forthcoming year would be £33,000. 
The class of goods which now most commonly forms the basis of claims for freedom from tax is machines, machine tools, dies, etc., which are of such high precision finish, or contain some manufacturing secret, that they are not procurable in the ordinary course of commerce in Australia. Manufacturers are, therefore, confronted with the alternatives of importing their requirements or making the goods themselves. Where they import the goods, sales tax is payable upon them, but, when they themselves make them they escape .payment of the tax. In the circumstances it is considered that the excepting words should be deleted, and the bill provides for this. Honorable senators who may have fears that this withdrawal will require the Commissioner of Taxation to levy tax on the incomplete tools or jigs earlier referred to, are reminded that the section applies to "goods manufactured in the course of carrying on a business", and it is believed that there is sufficient safeguard against such fears in the fact that, first the articles taxed must be " goods ", and, secondly, they must be "manufactured ". 
The next proposal contemplates an increase of the sale value of goods which are made by a retailer wholly out of taxpaid materials, and which are treated by him as stock for sale by retail. At the present time the proviso to section lS (2) of the Sales Tax Assessment Act (No. 1) provides that the taxable sale value of goods so made shall ba the amount of wages paid in respect of the manufacture of the goods, plus 20 per cent, of that amount. Thorough investigation has shown that this basis is unduly low, and it is now proposed that the percentage to be added to manufacturing wages shall be increased from 20 per cent, to 75 per cent. At the same time, it is proposed to give taxpayers the option of paying tax either on this sale value, or upon a wholesale selling value ascertained in accordance with the ordinary provisions of the law. This lastmentioned factor will preclude any hardship from arising in any case in which the addition of 75 per cent. to the wages cost may result in a value in excess of a fair wholesale selling price. 
Associated with the foregoing is a further proposal to provide a definite and stable sale value for goods made up for retailers who supply tax-paid materials to " outside " manufacturers. Difficulty has been encountered in determining the sale value upon which retailers should account for tax, and in some instances the department has been obliged to accept payment on values representing merely the cost of making up the goods. Some retailers originally represented that, as tax had been paid on the materials, and on another person's charge for making up, the total sale value upon which tax was so paid was generally equivalent to the amount for which comparable goods could be purchased by a retailer from a wholesale manufacturer. This view, however, has been proved by investigation to be unsupported by fact. Persons who make up the goods in question are, to a considerable degree, home workers, who work in intense competition on margins of profit which earn them a bare living. In other cases, the " makers up " are persons of alien birth, who set up in business with nothing more than a few machines and who, by dint of long working hours and keenly cut prices, endeavour to gain a footing in the manufacturing activities of this country. The charges made by these manufacturers to the retailers do not include a wholesaler's normal gross profit. These traders do not have to take into account the legitimate overhead charges involved in the business of a wholesale manufacturer, who carries the expense and risks associated with the buying of materials, and with the selling of fashion goods, and whose factories are conducted upon high standards to conform to the present ideal of social welfare. 
After full investigation it has been concluded that, in general, a retailer, in paying tax on cost of materials and mak ing up charges, is paying tax on total values equivalent to the wholesale manufacturer's costs of corresponding goods, but the wholesaler is paying tax on his sale price of those goods, which naturally includes his profit as well as costs. The present position is thus anomalous. It is considered that a balance would be achieved by requiring retailers in these cases to pay tax on sale values equal to the making-up charges, plus 33 per cent. This is provided for in the bill. These two amendments to section 18 of the act will result in the receipt of additional revenue, estimated to amount to £32,000 per annum. The bill is commended to honorable senators as a measure which will remove anomalies and practical difficulties, and will serve to increase the revenue to the amount of approximately £65,000 per annum. 
.-To avoid repetition, my remarks regarding the immediately preceding bill may be taken as being applicable to this measure also. The Opposition is always glad to support exemptions from tax, and it is not pleased when indirect taxes are increased, but anomalies will frequently have to be rectified while the sales tax remains in operation. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [11.39]. - I understand that sales tax does not apply to steel beams used for building purposes, but is imposed on steel rods used for reinforcement purposes. 
The steel beams are subject to the tax, but the fabricated rods used for reinforcement purposes are exempt. The beams have carried the tax since the commencement of this legislation, but, in 1936, steel rods and certain other building materials were exempted in order to encourage the building industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That at the end of the clause the following words be added: "and such agreement  shall  lie subject to ratification bv Parliament".  1 indicated in my brief second-reading speech on this bill that I intended to move this amendment. I am not, at the moment, proposing that the provisions of the bill shall be altered in any way. I arn merely asking that after the agreement has been signed it shall be subject to ratification by Parliament. I appeal to honorable senators, in the interests of democracy, to support the amendment. In view of the uncertainty that attends this whole project we should give ourselves a chance to understand what we are doing. We should not place upon the Government the heavy responsibility that must rest, upon it if my amendment be defeated. This is not a government measure; it is a non-party bill. Unless we take steps to protect ourselves against the extreme vagueness of the language of I he schedule, we shall lay ourselves open to the charge that we have failed in our duty. We do not know what embarrassments may overtake us if this clause bc agreed to in its present form. As this whole proposal is the creation of Parliament, it is the duty of Parliament to ensure the execution of a wise agreement that will not be injurious to the nation at, large. As Parliament is expected to re-assemble in a reasonably short time no hardship would be done to any of the interests concerned if ratification of the agreement were delayed until we had been given an opportunity to review it. Notwithstanding the amendments made to this schedule in another place, all the clements of exclusive rights remain in the language that has been used. This company will actually be given a. monopoly, whatever has been said to the contrary. The whole of the circumstances surrounding the proposal are such as to make it. entirely proper that Parliament shall protect itself by reserving an oppor tunity to examine the completed agreement before it is ratified.- 
The Opposition to a man will oppose this amendment.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan may regard this measure as non-party, but. whatever the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  may have said to the conflicting parties which support his Government, the Labour party will, as a party, support the bill as it is. In the early hours of this morning the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, after considerable difficulty, secured certain amendments to the proposed agreement which make it acceptable to us. Sufficient time has already been occupied in the consideration of the measure. We know exactly where we stand. We stand by the bill as it is. As a matter of fact all honorable senators know where they stand. They have known for some time how they would vote on the proposal. We are not prepared to delay the bill any further, lt is not a non-party measure with us, because on every occasion when this Government can be persuaded or forced to introduce a measure to develop an important secondary industry in this country we are determined to throw our whole weight in with it.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that the language in the schedule of the bill is vague. In hh second-reading speech, he directed attention to paragraph 12 of the schedule from which he read the words " That the Commonwealth will, for a period of five years, use its best endeavours ". He stopped at that point and asked what was meant by " best endeavours ". Had he read the remainder of the paragraph, and also the remainder of the schedule, he would have known exactly what was meant. In my opinion, there is no loophole in the schedule which will permit the exploitation of the Australians who desire to purchase these new Australian motor cars when they are marketed. Moreover the arbitrary provisions of these paragraphs, particularly in relation to the use of foreign capital are, in my opinion, very wise. We can easily foresee what would happen unless some such provisions were  made, lt is more than probable that cerium organizations supported by foreign capital might use their resources, even to the point of building complete motor vehicles in Australia, under conditions which would enable them to throttle the new industry, which might, in fact, be slaughtered before it was able to get on its feet if the provisions relating to foreign capital were omitted. We all know what can be done in the way of dumping. Not unlikely some of the interests opposed to this new company would be prepared to sell motor vehicles of certain makes for one-third of the price they are now asking for them, simply to defeat, this project. The Labour party is wholeheartedly supporting the lull. We shall not support any amendment. We have one objective and one only, and that is to sec the measure passed without delay. 
The Government cannot accept the  mi  noi id ment. As the Senate has twelve other bills to pass before this sitting concludes, I respectfully suggest to honorable senators that they should not occupy too much time in considering this proposal. 
I do not know whether the Minister's concluding remark was intended to be a rebuke to me. If so, I resent it. Having regard to the vehemence displayed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in declaring that the Labour party was speaking with one voice on this subject, I ask: What is that voice saying? lt is saying that an exclusive right shall bc given to one company to proceed with tho manufacture of motor vehicle engines in this country and that Parliament shall have no further voice on the subject. I must confess that I am astounded, but as the Leader of the Opposition has chosen to adopt this attitude on behalf of his party, I leave it to the country to pass  judgment upon it. The words that have fallen from the honorable gentleman's lips will probably have quite unexpected results. 
I also must direct attention to the amazing attitude of tho Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  Ho has said in effect that the Opposition is prepared to rob Parliament of the opportunity to safeguard the interests of the nation in relation to a most, important proposed agreement. The honorable gentleman is, in fact, denying to our democracy a right which it is entitled to exercise. The pronouncement of the honorable gentleman that, so far as his party is concerned, Parliament will bo deprived of its right to make judgment on this agreement, is most amazing. 
I am saying that the official pronouncement of the Leader of the Opposition amounts to a denial of the rights of Parliament. 
What I want is a fair go. I do not want noise. I protest against the declaration of the Leader of the Opposition that as far as his party is concerned, Parliament will not be permitted the opportunity to revise the proposed agreement. When  Senator Ashley  was making his secondreading speech, he said that some amendment to this schedule was necessary; but apparently the honorable senator's leader does not intend to permit him to move mi amendment. I do not wish to cause any  bad feeling among the parties in this chamber- 

 - (Senator James McLachlan). - There is no point of order. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 7.30 p.m. 

The objections to clause 3 have come from honorable senators who have already agreed to the granting of comprehensive powers to the Government under the National Security Act. When they accuse members of the Opposition of being inconsistent, the fact should be remembered that they have consented to the Government having power to enter into agreements of the kind contemplated under this measure, without consulting Parliament at all. I am well aware of the dangers inherent in this bill, but I am prepared to accept them as the lesser of two evils. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to he added  (Senator  A. j. McLachlan's  amendment)be added. 
Does this clause refer to the machinery required for the manufacture of motor vehicles, or does it include electrical equipment, crankshafts, and minor items extending over a very wide range, in respect of which Australian Consolidated Industries Limited will be entitled to duty free admission? 
.- The words of the clause indicate that the concession is confined to Australian Consolidated Industries Limited. The clause states that no duties shall be imposed and collected in respect of machinery required to be used in the production of engines and chassis for motor vehicles by the company formed in pursuance of an agreement executed by the authority of the act. 
The clause certainly applies to the company specifically mentioned in clause 3, but the bill provides opportunity for other companies to manufacture motor vehicles, and consideration would be given to their claims in respect of imported machinery. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
This bill has been introduced for the purpose of approving the execution of an agreement between the Commonwealth and Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, with respect to the manufacture in Australia of engines and chassis for motor vehicles. I think it desirable to outline briefly the action which has been taken over the last four years by successive governments to establish the manufacture in Australia of motor vehicle engines and chassis. 
In 1936 the Lyons Government decided that every effort should be made to establish the manufacture of motor engines and chassis in Australia. An offer was made to pay bounty on engines at a commencing rate of £30 a unit, and to grant tariff protection on chassis parts which might be manufactured. Other decisions made at that time related to the setting up of a national laboratory to assist Australian manufacturers and prospective motor car and aeroplane manufacturers in the technical difficulties which were expected to confront them. In addition, it was also decided that a substantially increased vote should he made to assist oil exploration in Australia. These decisions were part of a comprehensive plan to safeguard our overseas credits, to relieve unemployment, to afford increased opportunities for the employment of Australian youth in the highly skilled trades, and to encourage a much more rapid industrial expansion. 
No substantial response was made to the offer of the Lyons Government. It was quite evident that the major companies were not prepared to undertake manufacture on a basis envisaged by the Lyons Government. Endeavours were made to interest British manufacturers. Two British companies were sympathetic. The head of one of these companies stated in 1938 that owing to his company's concentration on large scale aero plane manufacture, it would be impracticable for the company to undertake manufacture in Australia at that time, but it would be prepared to consider the position at a later date. After considering the Tariff Board's report the Lyons Government, in September, 1938, invited prospective manufacturers to submit plans for the establishment of the industry. A period of six months was given for the submission of proposals. Bearing in mind the Government's objectives, no worthwhile proposal was received. Several proposals were received. Some required loans or capital subscription from the Commonwealth; others were sponsored by people without the requisite capital backing, whilst others related to individual chassis or engine parts. 
In May, 1939, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  indicated to Parliament that- 
The Commonwealth Government had definitely decided that motor vehicle engines and chassis were to be manufactured in Australia without undue delay. 
Defence preparedness, industrial expansion, conservation of overseas funds, immigration, employment and utilization of Australian raw materials were among the principal reasons underlying this decision. 
The Commonwealth Government was unable to grant a manufacturing monopoly to any single company. 
The Commonwealth Government desired that any company formed to undertake manufacture should be Australian in character and policy. 
The Commonwealth Government considered it essential that the prices of motor vehicles to be manufactured in Australia be reasonable and the public interest in this respect protected. At this stage interested parties were invited to place their proposals before the Government for consideration. 
One great difficulty confronting the Commonwealth Government since 1936 in getting prospective manufacturers with  adequate capital backing to interest themselves in the project, was the fear that the moment they established the industry, foreign or foreign-controlled companies would establish themselves in Australia, with a view to crippling the new Australian industry. This bill provides for the manufacture in Australia for a period of five years to be confined to Australianion trolled companies. 
No worthwhile proposal was forthcoming from any interested Australian party and in July, 1939, it was suggested to  Mr. W.  J. Smith, managing director of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, that he might consider the possibility of producing motor vehicle engines and chassis. It was represented to  Mr. Smith  that in the national interests, it was desirable that this industry should be established, and if this manufacturing project were undertaken by his company, it would be doing a service to the nation.  Mr. Smith  and the directors of the company associated with him approached the proposal made to them in this spirit. Throughout the discussions which preceded the exchange of letters between the company and the Commonwealth Government,  Mr. Smith,  on behalf of himself and his fellow directors, stated that they were actuated by the desire to contribute further to the industrial expansion of the country and to make a real contribution to the national war-time effort. 
The principal criticism levelled against the Government's endeavour to get this great industry established in Australia arose from the fact that the Commonwealth Government was prepared to give an undertaking to use its best endeavours to limit production of motor cars and trucks to the proposed company for a period of five years. In the House of Representatives this question was exhaustively debated, and the Government decided to accept an amendment to that section of the agreement, and to permit any Australian controlled company which is prepared to give similar undertakings to that given by Australian Consolidated Industries' to have the opportunity to undertake this work. There is little" need for me to enlarge on this subject, as all honorable senators are well aware of the efforts which have been made by successive governments to establish this industry. If protection be not given to any Australian company which embarks on this enterprise, we can reconcile ourselves to seeing the industry remain in the control of overseas companies for a long period, if not for all time. 
The benefits of the establishment of this industry have on several occasions been pointed out to honorable senators. The contribution of such an industry towards a greater national security is obvious. The present war is teaching us that Australia has to rely to a greater extent on its own efforts, and has to utilize its man-power and national resources to a greater extent than hitherto. The establishment of this industry will give em- .ployment to many. The employment benefits would not be immediate, as some eighteen months to two years would be required to establish this industry, and even then it could not expect to be in full production. On the conclusion of the war, the men forming part of our forces and those who are engaged in defence occupations will require new positions. No other industry offers such a contribution towards a -post-war re-adjustment as would be made by the transference of labour from aeroplane manufacture to an expanding motor car industry. I commend the measure to honorable senators. 
 This bill affords a most illuminating illustration of the value in this Parliament of a virile and unmuzzled Opposition. Had the measure reached the Senate in its original form, considerable opposition would have been offered to it by honorable senators on this side; but owing to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  was able to secure the insertion of an important amendment, the bill has come to us in such a form that we can support it without reservation. The Government at the moment is confronted with difficulties that are inseparable from an attempt to reconcile elements that have not the same approach to proposals to establish and maintain Australian industries. The Country party now represented in the Government believes always in getting the highest price it can extract from the community  for primary products, and the lowest terms which Australia will stand in the way of protection on the goods which primary producers buy. The Labour party, particularly in times of national emergency such as the present, stands for a drastic restriction of imports and a total embargo upon all commodities which can reasonably be interpreted as luxury goods. The Government, till recently solely representative of the United Australia party, now has its own problem of endeavouring to steer a safe course between the two contending forces. I was interested to note the concluding remarks of the Loader of the Senate (Sen itor McLeay) in moving the second reading of the measure. The honorable sen itor said - 
The present war is teaching us that Australia has to rely to a greater extent on ito own efforts and has to utilize its man-power and national resources to a greater extent than hitherto. 
I regret that it took a war to arouse the Government to Australia's urgent need. Members of the Opposition have for many years been endeavouring to persuade successive governments to encourage the establishment and maintenance of Australian industries, primary and secondary, on the best possible basis. The action of the Government in bringing in this bill, although somewhat belated, is nevertheless a good beginning, and our only criticism of it now is that it should have got on with the job much earlier. 
The honorable senator admits that this Government has not occupied the treasury bench for very long. 
All good. 
The honorable gentleman is not opposed to a monopoly in the business of sugar refining. 
What of sugar refining ? 
We are not opposed to the sugar industry. 
This will be the means to provide work for our men. 
When the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  was speaking, I endeavoured to ask him a question which was not intended to be hostile, but which would have helped him to answer the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride).  Wars can be lost owing to absence of sugar in the human body, but the passage of this bill will not assist in the slightest degree to win the war. 
Will any one say that at present there is a dearth of motor vehicles in Australia? 
For generations army leaders have found that an adequate supply of sugar is necessary to maintain the vitality of the troops. The motor vehicle building industry is unnecessary, but sugar is always a vital necessity. To that degree I am on the side of the Leader of the Opposition, but I cannot support him when he debates this measure on party lines. I decline to accept such a challenge, because I do not propose to deal with the measure from the party aspect. Under present conditions the motor-car industry is not so important as some suggest. The need for tanks, aeroplanes and similar defence equipment is paramount. If  Mr. Smith  of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited said that he was willing to devote the whole of the resources to be utilized in this business to the manufacture of tanks for defence purposes, his offer would be applauded. I refuse to be associated with this petty, paltry, party political argument, which has no more right to be introduced into this chamber to-day than has the bill we are discussing. Instead of this Parliament occupying its time with this proposal, our time should be devoted to the consideration of measures to expedite the production of war material to assist us in the life-and-death struggle in which we are engaged. 
That may be a justifiable argument from a party point of view; but I should like to know why at a time of crisis such a proposal should be brought before Parliament. I believe that the directors of the company should have relieved the Prime Minister of his promise to bring this measure before Parliament, but he has been sufficiently honest to honour the obligation into which he entered. I am not entirely ignorant on this subject, because I am connected with a co-operative motoring association, some of the members of which are well-to-do, whilst others belong to the poorest class. Any one driving around the suburbs of our capital cities can see acres and acres of parked second-hand motor cars for sale. During the last few years the more important motor-trading companies have entered into agreements with certain people who, on undertaking to pay one year's depreciation on a new car, can, at the end of twelve months, obtain another new one. Thousands of cars in good order and with good tires are available at reasonable prices. 
Yes, but I am emphasizing the urgent need to manufacture tanks instead of motor cars. The company concerned in this agreemen should be sufficiently patriotic to relieve the Government of its obligation to press for the. approval of the agreement at this juncture. It should offer to devote the whole of its strength to the purpose of helping us to win this struggle which will decide whether we shall be entitled to carry on any activity at all in the future. 
I think it could; and if I had an assurance that the company would devote the whole of its effort during the war to the manufacture of tanks I should certainly be more favorably disposed towards the agreement. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  stated that if the bill contained any provision which virtually gave to any company a monopoly of motor-car manufacture in this country, it would not receive the support of the Opposition. Notwithstanding all that has been said in both this chamber and the House of Representatives on that phase of the proposal, and the assurances which have been given that the objectionable monopoly provision has been removed from the bill, I venture to say that when this measure is interpreted as a cold matter of law, it will be seen that that feature has not been entirely removed. In that respect honorable senators are either deceiving themselves or are being deceived, because of their enthusiasm to . see this industry established. I ask them not to be deceived- As a lawyer, I can claim to speak with some degree of authority on that aspect. In my view it is extremely doubtful whether the monopoly feature has been removed from the bill. I should like to hear from a leading lawyer sitting in this chamber whether he thinks, as a matter of strict law, the monopoly feature does not still remain in this measure as it now stands. 
The war may last five months, or five years; but it is vital that we devote the whole of our attention to winning the war. 
Paragraph 15 of  the  schedule makes it not only possible, but also extremely probable, that the Minister charged with the administration of this bill at some time in the future may accept simply the  ipse dixit  of the interested party to the agreement that unfair competition is taking place, and, in that case, the Minister, under this provision, can virtually grant a monopoly. The Minister for Trade and Customs, in his second-reading speech, did not stress the history of this proposal. He did not say that it was referred by the Lyons Government to the Tariff Board for inquiry, and that that Government gave an undertaking that if the board was of the opinion that this proposal was uneconomic, the Government would have nothing more to do with it. Even in paragraph 15 of the schedule, which  refers  to import control to counteract unfair trading methods on the part of overseas interests, no mention is made of a reference to the Tariff Board in order  to  determine whether unfair competition exists. We are entitled to demand that measure of protection, rather than leave it  to  the Minister of the day and the financially interested party, to decide whether unfair competition exists and whether, therefore, paragraph 15 should be implemented. That is a monstrous, dangerous and unfair position in which to place  the  country. 
On the general question as to whether this measure should be persisted in at the present time, I should like to add a few other observations. Honorable senators will recall that only last week I gave evidence of my sincere appreciation of the public mind in the present crisis when I declined to proceed with a proposal which I submitted for securing the world against aggression. At the moment we must employ every means available to  us  in order to place ourselves in a position in which we shall be able to dictate terms for the maintenance of world security. That consideration remains just  as  urgent at this moment. Two locks open the door  to  that security, and two keys are required for them. In a little booklet which I issued recently, I set out that one of those keys is the key to world security, but before  we  could possibly open that door  we  must release the first lock, which barred our way to absolute victory. Surely, the public conscience can be aroused on a proposal of this kind. Surely, honorable senators will not be influenced by party political considerations in dealing with so important a matter. I deplore the fact that the Leader of the Opposition has introduced party considerations into this debate. Such an attitude will shock the public conscience, and cause people to protest against the wasting of the time of Parliament in considering at this moment any matter which does not at once, and directly, assist us along the road to complete victory against the forces of evil. On those grounds I strongly protest against the introduction of this measure  at  the present juncture. As I sat here this morning I thought of a letter which I had hoped Australian Consolidated Industries might have written to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  at this juncture. That letter would be along these lines- 
Dear  Mr. Menzies, 
On behalf of myself and my, directors I beg to express to you our sincere appreciation of your good faith in honoring your promise to submit this matter to Parliament. 
We feel, however, that in the present critical position of our nation, together with the British Commonwealth of Nations and our French and other Allies, there is only one matter that can be considered at this timenamely, to devote the whole thought, attention and effort of the people of all of our countries towards those activities and undertakings, which are vital and material to the winning of the war. We therefore desire to wholly absolve you from your undertaking to have the motor-car agreement even considered by Parliament, and we further desire to place our whole financial strength and organization at the service of our country towards manufacturing tanks, munitions and other vital war supplies, which we feel are most vital to the nation and the Allies at the present time. 
A letter in such terms might have been appropriately written by the managing director of the company  at this  juncture in order to absolve the Prime Minister from his promise. 
We shall certainly be obliged to prevent the importation of motor cars during the present crisis.I am well acquainted with what has been  said about the necessity for building up dollar exchange, and I have listened with attention and respect to the statements made on this subject by the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and other members of the Government. As a man of ordinary intelligence I realize that we cannot continue to import motor cars unless we possess ample dollar credit. But, we must conserve that credit for the purchase of more urgent needs, just as I say we must now devote our every effort to things more important than are embodied in this measure. 
We have sufficient trucks, I think, to do our job. 
I admit that that subject certainly requires immediate attention. My answer to  Senator Courtice's  very pertinent objection is that we shall be obliged to do without new motor cars for the duration of the war. Apart from the fact that we shall be more willing to be satisfied with reconditioned cars, any company which proposes to make new cars at the present time, will practically be committing financial suicide. Besides the difficulties arising from our necessity to build up dollar exchange, other influences will tend to diminish the market for new cars during the war. First, the majority of car owners are alive to the probability of a petrol shortage. It may be that that shortage will not be so severe as seemed likely some months ago. However, the second and overwhelming reason why people will not want to buy new motor cars is that, as the war proceeds, they will be taxed up to the hilt. During the next two or three years our taxation will be increased to such a degree that very few people will be able to afford new cars. If we are not prepared to make every effort in order that we may escape the tyranny that threatens us, we shall go down. We shall npt be able to shirk that effort, and, consequently, the purchasing power of the people will vanish almost entirely. It may be that the Government's requirements will provide' a limited market, but the people generally will not provide a market for new motor cars, because as time goes on they "will be obliged to make-shift with old ramshackle vehicles. 
We have the iron, metal and skilled artisans required for the manufacture of motor cars; but another reason exists why we should not undertake this proposal if it means a weakening of our war effort. All of our available skilled labour is necessary for the production of war material. A question was asked in this chamber recently concerning the national register, one of the objects of which was to provide s ready means of locating skilled labour in case of emergency. A protest was made because already many men whose names were listed on the national register cards as skilled workers had been permitted to join the Australian Imperial Force foi service overseas. The logical reply to that question was that in these days of mechanized armies, it is necessary to draw largely upon our resources of skilled workers in order to keep the war machine in operation. But under this bill there is to be an additional heavy drain on our artisans. I ask honorable senators whether there is any sense in diverting skilled labour which could be employed in the manufacture of munitions, in order prematurely to embark upon an unnecessary undertaking? Undoubtedly the people are desirous of winning the war, and the proposal to establish a motor-vehicle industry in this time of national peril evokes protest from every logical mind. We should now be concentrating every effort upon the production of those instruments of war which are so vital to a successful prosecution of this campaign. I hope that eventually some such proposal as that contained in the letter which never was written, will be brought forward. 
Apparently the Leader of the Opposition is unable to dissociate himself from miserable thoughts of party politics. I ask him of what  use  will such affiliations be if the German hordes bring war to this country? What would Hitler think of such a restricted outlook? In all friendliness, I beg  once  again that the Leader of the Opposition and all honorable senators who entertain such ideas, will drop them. We are fighting for the preservation of our democratic system. The fight is vital to us, and the position is extremely dangerous. 1 wish to absolve myself of all attempts to raise petty party arguments. I have not advanced any such arguments in the course of my remarks to-day. I have pui forward my views sincerely and honestly. 
Am I idealistic because I suggest the building of ships to carry food to our soldiers who are fighting overseas to keep the tyrants away from this country, go that honorable senators may sit here and take counsel together ? 
That is what i say. Let another letter be written offering to put the whole of this effort behind the shipbuilding industry. When  Senator Allan  MacDonald raised the matter of shipbuilding in the Senate a few months ago, I enthusiastically supported him. My present attitude to this matter is not a newly-born enthusiasm. We should devote the whole of our energies to the production of those requirements which are absolutely necessary at the present time. Let us produce foodstuffs, by all means; build ships, by all means j build tanks; build engines. Let us concentrate all available skilled labour in essential war industries in order that we may quickly produce all of those things for which there is urgent need. I do not care about party interests, business interests, or the peoples' feelings in this matter. If any honorable senator here, or any member of the public who reads my words, will ask himself conscientiously the question, what is most vitally necessary at the present time, he certainly will not answer that the building of motor cars at present is what the situation demands. 
I move - 
That the word now " be left out with a view to adding the following words: - "this day six months ". 
I move this amendment for a very serious reason. A year ago, in the dying hours of a session, a bill was introduced by the Government which had similar objects to the legislation now under consideration. It provided for the payment of a bounty on motor-car engines with a view to encouraging the building of motor cars in Australia. I spoke on that measure for a minute and a half and said that I heartily welcomed the proposal to establish the motor-car manufacturing industry in Australia. 1 still believe that motor cars should be and can be manufactured here, but every honorable senator realizes the seriousness of the war position  to-day,  and appreciates that whilst there is a time and place for everything, the present time is not opportune for the establishment of this industry. To-day we are not discussing whether or not it is right to build motor cars in Australia; we are discussing a bill which has been introduced for the purpose of authorizing an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government and Australian Consolidated Industries Limited. I am opposed to monopolies, but we have been told that the monopolistic provisions have been removed from the bill. I do not agree that that is so.  Senator Abbott  just said that he would like to have opinion of counsel on some of the clauses of this agreement. I am surprised that he would seek such an opinion because the clauses of this agreement are so transparent that their import may be readily understood without the assistance of counsel. 
If the honorable senator has confidence -in the. Prime Minister, he is a very sudden convert. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Hitherto we have not been aware of the confidence which  Senator Courtice  has in the Prime Minister, and I ask him to cast his mind back to the recent byelection held in the electorate of Corio. During the course of that campaign the honorable senator and his colleagues apparently had little confidence in the Prime Minister. We all know what the result of that election was, and we know of the publicity which was given to the result by  Senator Courtice  and other members of his party. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Yes, and I know well what was implied in the decision of the people of Corio. I do not know whether or not the implication is correct, but it might be well to remind honorable senators of what has happened recently. During the past twelve hours interesting events have been taking place in the House of Representatives; almost the whole of last night was occupied in a discussion of this bill. En the early hours of this morning an unholy alliance was contracted between two parties, and the result of that alliance was the passing of this bill through the House of Representatives. Before dawn broke this morning the very people who had been bitter enemies in the Corio campaign had collaborated in hatching a plot which was to their mutual advantage. Apparently time and place alter things considerably, and because of what has happened I am very suspicious of this bill. 
As I have said, a bill similar to this one came to us in the dying hours of the last session. It looked all right, and we accepted it, but it seems that there was something more behind it than was indicated by the Government, and so I am extremely doubtful of the measure now before us. We were told that the object of the bounty bill was to encourage the building of motor cars in Australia. We know now that before that bill was introduced the Government had actually been engaged in private negotiations with a company interested in the establishment of the motor-car industry in Australia. The explanation given was that the negotiations had broken down on the 4th December. The bill was introduced into Parliament about the 5th December, and, strangely enough, negotiations were resumed about the 7th December. It seems, therefore, that the break-down was not very serious. Such occurrences make one suspicious of the Government's intentions in bringing this bill before us to-day. Arguments against the establishment of the motor-car industry in Australia at this juncture have been very ably put by  Senator Abbott.  I agree with him that the time is not opportune for such an enterprise. At present we need the whole of our skilled labour for the production of munitions, and other essential war requirements. 
I am glad that the honorable senator mentioned tractors. There is nothing about tractors or trucks in this bill at all. This bill applies to motor cars of 15 h.p. and over. The whole purpose of this agreement, as I understand it, is to build motor cars of about 15 h.p. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

I was impressed by a remark by a member of the Opposition that I have changed my opinion with regard to monopolies. I contend that any private company which establishes a big industry off its own bat is not a monopoly ; but, if a large and successful undertaking owes its prosperity to protection through the tariff and financial assistance from the Government, it may be truly regarded as a monopoly. I am not greatly concerned about the construction which honorable senators opposite may place upon my attitude to this measure. They have proved on more than one occasion that they are not consistent. I commend the members of the Australian Labour party - nonCommunist - for being true to their convictions with regard to the sugar agreement, and for requesting an inquiry into the ramifications of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, which is one of the monopolies that the other members of the Opposition support when it suits them to do so. 
This debate has developed into a political argument, with the result that the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal under consideration seem to have been forgotten. Opponents of the agreement who require arguments against it would have found, in the press, at the time of the Corio by-election, all of the material they could have desired. On that occasion, honorable senators opposite could say nothing in favour of the agreement; it was bad from start to finish. Since the unholy alliance that developed last night between tho United Australia party and the Opposition, however, the Opposition has claimed that the proposal should be adopted. I draw attention to the attitude of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  to the agreement. After all  that was said about it at the Corio byelection,  Mr. Menzies  said that he had nothing to hide; he would bring the matter before the Parliament, which should decide whether the agreement should be ratified. He added that he would make the matter a non-party one, and that Government supporters could vote upon it as they thought fit. This has become a political rather than an industrial issue, and I admit, frankly, that my general in the House of Representatives was out-manoeuvred by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  who regarded the whole matter, not as industrial, but as political. He saw an opportunity to drive a wedge between the parties forming the coalition Government, and he took good care that the wedge was driven well home. 
If the people are desirous of seeing an industry established in Australia for the manufacture of motor car engines, they have means of achieving that result very quickly. It would be necessary only to delete the provision in the bounty act of 1939 relating to the proportion of Australian capital required to be in any company claiming the bounty. The importation of cars could also be prohibited, and then they would soon be made in Australia. It cannot be truthfully said that this country is short of motor vehicles. It has all the motor cars it requires for the next three  or four years. One of the main problems in the capital cities, and in large country towns, is to find parking space, day and night, for the large number of vehicles on the market and on the roads. To the man who has no car, and would like to own one, I would say that, within the next twelve months, plenty of them will be available at reasonable prices. There are thousands of second-hand cars for sale. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  interjected that, at the present juncture, the Commonwealth authorities are hiring motor trucks from private firms; but it is quite unnecessary to do that, as the Government has all the powers it needs under the National Security Act to acquire compulsorily any private motor vehicles that it may' need, as was done in England during the last war. Many private cars could be fitted with truck bodies. If I am opposed to the importation of motor vehicles, I am not against the importation of capital. The more capital we can attract to Australia, whether English or American, the better it will be for this country. By the methods that I have indicated, the establishment of a motor-car manufacturing industry in Australia could be ensured; but we are dealing, not with the manufacture of cars in Australia, but with an agreement between the Government arid a particular company. I am not in favour of that agreement. Although I would support the establishment of any new industry that would benefit this country, I could not accept the present agreement. 
I oppose tho amendment. Little sincerity, has been displayed by its mover. We are not dealing with an industry which is to be the recipient of a present of £1,000,000 a year, as in the case of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, but with a company which proposes to expend £500,000 on plant, commit itself to heavy overhead expenditure, pay a large wages bill for some months until its enterprise can- be brought into production, and also run the risk of tricks by financial interests and of undercutting by similar organizations with foreign capital. Although a rival company might claim to be Australian, it would adopt means of obtaining foreign capital in. order to destroy Australian Consolidated Industries Limited. This company would be entitled to ask that a special safeguard against such risks be inserted in the bill. To those who glibly say that the time is not ripe to discuss in this Parliament the establishment of the motor-car industry in Australia, I reply that certain honorable senators in this chamber would oppose the establishment of any secondary industry. We are now considering a proposal of major importance. This company expects to employ thousands of men. Two years or more would be occupied in getting the industry under way, and it will prove very useful in postwar reconstruction. I fear that the Government was forced into acceptance of this proposal by the constant demand of the Opposition for the establishment of the industry. The ex-Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. John Lawson)  realized the importance of this industry to Australia, and, even if he made a slip in connexion with the  negotiations, it was more than compensated for by the success of his efforts to induce Australian Consolidated Industries Limited to embark upon this enterprise.  Those who quibble about this matter should first search their own minds and ask themselves whether they, too, have not made mistakes. It is unfair to say that the former Minister for Trade and Customs did something foolish. He acquitted himself well, as was proved by the story he told in the House of Representatives yesterday. All the arguments of honorable senators, to the effect that companies  other than Australian Consolidated In- ;dustries Limited are prepared 'to manufacture motor-vehicle engines in Australia, are so much twaddle intended to prevent this country from establishing a new industry. Other companies have bad ample opportunity, over a long period of years, to establish the industry, but no move was made by them until Australian Consolidated Industries Limited entered the field. Representatives of all sorts of motor companies have written to me and to almost every honorable senator- 
I am surprised that the honorable senator did not receive a circular from the Ford Motor Company of Australia Limited as I did. These firms did not bestir themselves until they found that the Government had found a company with sufficient faith in Australia to invest capital in the establishment of what [ believe is destined to become one of tho greatest of our industries. Doubtless a great deal of the plant necessary for the industry will have to be imported, but that is not a great drawback. 
There is little difference between motor car engines and military tank engines, so that, when the factory is erected in New South Wales, Australian Consolidated Industries Limited will be able to manufacture engine and chassis units for both motor cars and tanks. I have sufficient faith in Australian tradesmen to believe that they will soon master whatever technical difficulties there may be in the construction of both types of engine. Many Australians would be willing to study the science of making engines for military tanks in the interests of Australian defence. 
There should not be very much difference between the methods of constructing kerosene-driven motors, diesel motors, petrol motors or gas motors. .The industrialists who are prepared to handle this job would not experience much difficulty in effecting any adjustments that might be necessary. They could soon establish' a subsidiary organization for the purpose. , They are prepared to take the risk of expending £1,000,000 before they can hope to sell even one unit. 
Probably so, and, therefore, they are entitled to protection. The protectionist policy of the Labour party has been responsible for the building up of the great Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. We did not intend that that organization should develop into a monopoly;. we are opposed to monopolies. But to compare the 
Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and similar great monopolies, with this unborn industrial babe that is to be reared in the face of competition from foreign capital, is ridiculous. Members of the Country party must re- member that they represent the Australian people. 
I believe that they misrepresent themselves. They were elected to this Parliament to do a job for Australia. They will be failing in their duty if they oppose the establishment of this industry, which will create a larger market for the product of the rural interests which they represent. The motor-car manufacturing industry must employ thousands of men, who will buy large quantities of wool, wheat, butter and other primary products. Members of the Country party are opposed to the interests of people who live in the big cities, but they fail to realize that boys living in country districts will come to the metropolitan areas in order to engage in this industry; thus unemployment in the country will be reduced. Youth employment will be an important post-war issue. 
The Government deserves a great deal of credit for its effort to establish this new industry, and the former Minister for Trade and Customs did a very good job. I shall support the Government's proposal, and the Country party should follow my lead and do something that will be of great value to the Australian people. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [2.38].  -  When the present composite Ministry was formed in February, one of the conditions agreed upon between the United Australia party and the Country party was that the controversial matter of an agreement between the Commonwealth and Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, and its implied monopoly of motor-car manufacture in Australia should be a nonparty issue. 
-That is so. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are allowed freedom of thought in tariff matters, as is shown by the division lists. 
Certainly not. I am right behind the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  and his colleagues. 
Nothing of the kind. I am using my right of freedom of thought in accordance with the arrangement entered into between the leaders of the two parties composing the Government. I intend to support the amendment, only because I have been denied an opportunity so far to move an amendment which I had in mind. I shall move it if I have a chance to do so because it represents the considered opinion of the Country party. It reads - 
That the following words he  added to those  proposed to he inserted: - " but assistance to the manufacture of motor cars in Australia be deferred until such time as, in the opinion of Parliament (expressed by Resolution) arrangements have been made and proved to be effective to overcome the inadequacy of the war-time supply of munitions and aeroplanes, and to commence a programme of shipbuilding, so that Australia's maximum industrial effort in the production of the things most essential to win the war may not be impeded ". 
However desirable the construction of motor cars may be as a post-war industry, the manufacture of goods required for the conduct of the war is more important to-day. First things should come first. 
The manufacture of aeroplanes, munitions, and ships is more important than the manufacture of cars. All of these things, I remind the honorable senator, can be made and should be made in the State that he and I represent. The present war situation shows that aeroplanes should be manufactured in far greater numbers than at present. If  Mr. Smith  and Australian Consolidated Industries Limited have £1,000,000 to invest, they  should be given the opportunity to employ the money in the manufacture of aeroplanes, munitions, or ships. A shipbuilding programme is urgently required to-day, because of the necessity for transporting our primary products to the other side of the world. 
Apart from that issue, the Tariff Board's report on this subject must be considered. On the 6th September, 1937, in its summary of conclusions on the manufacture of motor cars, unanimously signed by all members, it stated - 
The evidence before it convinces the board that it would be unwise at present to encourage or enforce the manufacture of the complete motor vehicle in Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  with his virile mind, has forestalled my remarks. But last September the Government introduced a Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Bill which was passed by both Houses of the Parliament. It was designed to assist companies, 66 per cent. of the capital of which was owned by British subjects living in Australia. When the measure was introduced members of the Country party in both chambers moved that it be referred to the Tariff Board for an immediate report as to the desirability of establishing the industry in the light of the war conditions then prevailing. 
Which shows that the majority is riot always right. Had that motion been accepted we should have had before us to-day an up-to-date report from the Tariff Board which is more entitled than any other body to guide and advise the Parliament on this important subject. I always rejoice to see new industries established on an economic basis. 
That question requires a lengthy answer which I should have pleasure in giving if my time were not limited. Despite the amendment agreed to by the House of Representatives, I am of opinion that this agreement is still designed to give a monopoly to one company or, at least, to restrict participation in the industry to those companies which can qualify for bounty by reason of the fact that 66 per cent. of their capital is owned by British subjects resident in Australia. 
But this bill goes further than that act, and, if implemented, it will practically preclude manufacturers like Morris or Austin with English capital, the Canadian firm of Ford's, or American companies like General Motors and Chrysler-Dodge, from building and equipping factories in Australia with their own capital, even should they be prepared to do so without receiving a bounty from the Government. If honorable senators will read paragraphs 12 and 15 of the proposed agreement they will see that, notwithstanding the action taken by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, provision has been made for the establishment of a monopoly for five years. Paragraph 12 reads - 
That the Commonwealth will for a period of fiveyears use its best endeavours to limit production of engines and chassis for motor vehicles of fifteen horse-power or over to companies in respect of which the Minister administering the Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Act 1930 is in the exercise of all the powers conferred by section6 of that act, satisfied that paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection I of that section apply and which give undertakings satisfactory to the Commonwealth with respect to the following: - 
Type of engine and chassis to be manufactured ; 
Purchase of parts from established Australian manufacturers of motor vehicle parts; 
Number of engines and chassis to bo produced annually; 
Support to Australian machine tool manufacturers; 
Use of bounty to give price concession to Australian public; and 
Arrangements to ensure availability of technical information from other countries. 
Paragraph15states - 
That the Commonwealth will retain the import control established in the year One thousand nine hundred and thirty-six over the importation of motor vehicle engines and chassis and will use this import control, if necessary,  to  counteract u,ny unfair trading methods which may be adopted by overseas interests iti selling competitive vehicles in Australia. 
Those powers can be extended by the Government under the National Security Act should it so desire. No additional companies can be formed to undertake this, work, even if* they can provide 66 per cent, of' Australian capital, without the approval of the Treasurer as is  provided  in the National Security (Capital) Regulations. It is proposed to give this company power to spend £1,000,000, but should the motor-body building firms in Adelaide, such as General Motors-Holdens Limited and T. J. Richards and Son Limited, be unable to get chassis and decide to form a company the Minister may refuse them the right to establish an undertaking even if they can provide the prescribed quota of Australian capital. The first agreement introduced by the Government showed clearly that it would not let any other company, even financed with Australian capital', to enter into this field of industrial activity. I do not know why the Government should endeavour to prevent the investment of British capital in this business. It is a new departure to prevent the investment of British or even American or Canadian capital to assist in the development of Australia, and the proposed agreement will effectively prevent any such action by British or American companies. The arguments always advanced by high protectionists, whooppose the importation of Canadian or American cars or goods have been that foreign capital should- be used to establish branches of the industries in Australia. E do not think- that this industry will help our present war effort, although I admit it might be somewhat valuable in providing post-war employment. We would be far better advised if we devoted our energies to the production of arms and munitions, aeroplanes and ships, which are so essential at the present juncture instead of embarking on the manufacture of motor cars. 
This measure is of far-reaching importance, and I again protest against not being supplied with a copy of the Minister's second-reading speech. The information he supplied to the Senate is now before us, hut we cannot be expected to discuss this measure intelligently unless wo too. have before us the facts which he supplied to the Senate. According to the remarks of  Senator Abbott  it would appear that we should not discuss this project, but should leave it to that mythical thing known as common sense ; but in order to reach finality  the subject must be debated more fully than it can be this afternoon. Whether in times of peace or in times of war there will always be a conflict of ideas on how the affairs of the nation should be managed, and as to whether there should even be such institutions as parliaments. The ideas of honorable senators in Opposition with respect to the war and affairs of the nation generally are in most, instances diametrically opposed to the. opinions of honorable senators opposite. Unless our differences be threshed, out it will be very difficult to bring about a working agreement,, and we shall always find ourselves at cross purposes instead of having some degree of unanimity.  Senator Abbott,  who referred to a letter which should be written, presupposes that the private owners of national utilities should place un reservedly their, resources at the disposal of the Government for war purposes. I stated by interjection that he was influenced more by ideal concepts than by material considerations, because that is. the very last thing that they would do. The Government- now has to use the power of the law in- order to reach agreement on its. terms, and that is precisely the position in which we are now placed. If we depend upon, so-called goodwill, patriotism and, all of those finer and nobler attributes of private monopolists, I am afraid that our war effort will not be creditable to Australia. We shall find, as we are finding now,, that it will be necessary to issue regulations under the National Security Act in order to bring these gentlemen to a more- reasonable frame of mind, and I am afraid that  Senator Abbott  is likely to&lt; be disillusioned. 

 Senator- Abbott. - The honorable senator is misrepresenting me; I did not suggest anything of the kind. 
I know "that the honorable senator is influenced by the best of motives, and I question, not his sincerity, but his judgment. 
I regret if I did so; hut that is the impression which  I  formed. This bill contains a much better proposition than the original proposal. It is not all that we desire, because we have not an opportunity to express our opinions with respect to it, and therefore have to rely upon the pressure oi the criticism we are able to bring to bear on its merits in order to influence the Government. Apparently our criticisms daring the Corio by-election had some effect in that direction. The original intention of the Government, as I understood it, was to establish an exclusive and privately-controlled monopoly, but it is now proposed to bring about an agreement between the Government and this company. Whether we like it or not, we are passing through a monopolistic age. The monopolists who are here are the outcome of the economic process that is operating and depriving craftsmen of their tools of trade. Modern machines are operated by steam, electricity, gas and various forms of motive power. These constitute the collective tools, the means by which we produce the things we need. That is where the trouble starts and where we join issue. It is a question of who is to control monopolies. The monopolies exist; we cannot do without them. But the question arises as to whether they are to be owned and controlled by a few private persons, responsible to no one but themselves, or by the people as a whole through the government of the day. Those monopolies, which can be used to great advantage in the interests of the nation, should be owned and controlled by the people through their government. Pledged as this Government is to the principle of private monopoly, it is not prepared to consider collective ownership, unless it be compelled to do so 'by the pressure of its needs and events, that is, the effect of economic development. The struggle goes on among private monopolies for supreme control. We find to-day that certain monopolies control 60 or more subsidiary companies. The latter exist under different names, but all of them are subordinate to the central monopoly. Because we permit this degree of private monopoly, prices are rising and purchasing power is being reduced.. These developments in their turn stir the people to resentment, which is expressed in Parliament through the Labour party. 
The Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  declared that Australia must rely upon its own efforts. I agree with that statement. However, the trouble has been that in the past we relied too much on interests overseas, with the result that we now find ourselves in much greater difficulty in a time of war than would have been the case had governments in this country been prepared to give effect, as they will soon he obliged to do, to the Labour party's policy of making the nation as self-contained as possible. It is this state of affairs which has brought into being the demand that we should now manufacture motor cars. In this respect we are simply making a virtue of necessity. War-time conditions are compelling us to rely upon our own efforts and resources to a far greater degree than this Government was prepared to do before war broke out. 
It is absolutely correct. I point "out to the Assistant Minister for Commerce that if we could now import cheap motor cars from Japan, Germany or any other country, this Government would prefer to do so ' rather than encourage their manufacture in Australia. However, we are now unable to import cars as cheaply, expeditiously, and abundantly as we did previously, and, because of war-time restrictions, we are thrown upon our own resources. We must decide whether we shall undertake efforts to win the war, or whether we shall allow things to romain as. they were prior to the outbreak of the war. The choice of the former  course  is more to our credit. In this way we are being educated by the logic of events rathe than as the result of our capacity for abstract reasoning. 
Not exactly. I am simply exercising mr right to speak to this measure in an endeavour to show the absurdity of certain  statements made by some honorable senators opposite. I do not accept such statements at their face value. I repeat that when the Government says that it intends to establish the manufacture of motor cars in Australia, it is relying to a far greater degree than formerly upon our own efforts, and is simply making a virtue of necessity. 

 Senator James McLachlan declared that we have plenty of motor cars in Australia,, and do not need any more. I point out that the efficiency and value of the men and women upon whom we rely for the defence of this country will be correspondingly enhanced as increasing numbers of them are enabled to own motor vehicles. In this respect, let us suppose, as  Senator Wilson  suggested last evening, that an attack were made upon Australia by parachute troops. If we had mobile forces equipped with machine guns we could despatch sufficient numbers of defenders to the point of attack within a short space of time, and we should thus be in a much better position than we are to-day to combat such attacks. It would be a great advantage, indeed, if we possessed sufficient motor vehicles to build up adequate mobile forces. At the present time we have large numbers of unemployed who could do this work. It would be far better if these men were engaged in manufacturing motor vehicles of every description, rather than that we should be obliged to increase taxes in order to support them. Consequently, it seems to me that when the honorable senator says that we have too many cars he is taking up exactly the same attitude as was taken up by this Government before war broke out. It said that we were able to defend ourselves, and that we were quite secure. The war soon disillusioned the Government on that point. Before the war I directed attention to the necessity for training toolmakers, but the Government replied, in effect, that no necessity existed for the installation of machines for the purpose of teaching young Australians to become toolmakers and tradesmen. As the war develops, however, and our danger becomes more imminent, the Government realizes that it must take action in this direction. I am pleased to note that change. The attitude now adopted by  Senator James  McLachlan is precisely the same as that adopted by the Government on this matter before war broke out. The honorable senator say3 that we have plenty of cars. I say that we cannot have too much of anything, and that we should. build up our material resources in the form of motor vehicles of all description, and build our stores of raw material mountain high. Even though we may not be able to consume or use those resources, we cannot have too much, of anything which will help us to face the task which confronts us to-day. We must take time by the forelock. Our natural resources are practically unlimited. We have the requisite man-power and we have the means by which we can support that man-power. We have every facility required to enable us to manufacture motor cars or any other article which we need. Common needs and dangers faced in common are the strongest bonds of unity . between man and man. As our position in relation to the war becomes worse, we shall find the people of this country more united than they have been in the past. We should take every advantage of that attitude.  Senator Wilson  pointed out that thousands of men and women want to contribute to our war effort. They want to do something useful, and to help the nation in the present crisis. If, like  Senator James  McLachlan, we say that we have plenty of this and that, and therefore need not start new industries, we shall not make the best use of our resources of man-power and material. 
After the war, what? Despite the fact that we shall have established this new industry and many others as well, this Government will, if it can, revert to the policy which its political predecessor adopted at the conclusion of the last war. It will want to re-establish as far as possible pre-war conditions. This will mean that the tendency will be to import goods instead of manufacturing them in Australia. The reason for this policy is that labour power will be cheaper in Japan and Germany and other countries from which we shall be able to import these goods.  Honorable senators should now ask themselves whether at the conclusion of the war we are going to abandon all of the industries which we shall establish during the war. Shall we endeavour to revert to the same position as existed before the war? If such a policy be adopted I assure honorable senators opposite that they will make as much trouble for themselves at the end of the war as that with which we are confronted to-day. When I asked  Senator Johnston  by way of interjection what he meant by the term " economic basis ", I was endeavouring to elicit from the honorable senator his views as to what policy we should adopt in relation to these industries after the war. We have a right to expect honorable senators to define what they mean by certain terms. If I were asked to say what the honorable senator meant by " economic basis", I would say that he meant labour power at the minimum rates, and profit at the maximum rates. That is the economic basis of the conditions under which we are living today; that is the economic policy that is causing all our troubles, and making it almost impossible to organize our forces to the degree necessary to improve our war effort. It is an instance of where the reducing ofwages is not brought about directly in the usual way, but is brought about mechanically as the result of the labour  power  being a diminishing quantity in the production of commodities and wages being based on the cost of subsistence. Then, obviously, as the purchas  ing  power of the people becomes less and less, and the accumulation of capital becomes greater and greater, there occurs the turmoil which exists to-day in Australia. It is not asking too much when  we  ask to be told exactly what honorable senators mean by their terms. It is only by threshing these matters out. as they should be threshed out, and pointing to the absurd assumptions and categories on which many of Labour's opponents base their beliefs, that it is possible to cultivate a more reasonable attitude of mind, and so raise the intellectual level that  Ave  can continue our national effort without making as many mistakes in the future as  Ave  made in the past. I challenge the terms which are used in the Minister's statement, and other termswhich have been used by honorable senators, not with the object of trying to appear something of a mentor, but merely in order that we may get down to the " guts " of the thing, and know exactly where we are. All thesewordy embellishments and dialectical trimmings are all right to tickle the ears of the unsophisticated, the sincere man who is prepared to take honorable senators at their face value, but are not acceptable to persons who are determined to sift the truth of things from their apparent contradictions and variations. That is the reasonwhy I challenge honorable senators who use platitudes or terms that have become hackneyed with the object of creating the impression that they  know  everything. As a matter of fact, the more one places upon these people the responsibility of defining terms, the more one discovers that they know least about what theywould have us believe they know most. With these remarks, I support the  bill,  not because it is the very best proposition that could be brought forward, but because it is the best that can be produced in the light of the circurn- stances and the difficult position confronting honorable senators on this side of the Senate,who  believe  that they are capable of doing much more in the interests of the country, but are  prevented  front doing so by the . obstinacy and ignorance of some of the honorable gentlemen opposite. 
Having listened to the  Avar  notes of Lochiel for a few minutes, I shall endeavour to devote my remarks to that part of this bill which the honorable senator has so eloquently described as the "guts", but which, from one end of his address to the other, he did not attempt to probe. This measure is one of great importance, because its object is to usher into being a new industrywhichwill be ofvital significance to Australia. There can be no doubt that we in Australia depend more on the internal-combustion engine than on any other form of locomotion. 
I have done  alittle  more to make this country  secure by locating oil than has any honorable senator opposite. Ever since this proposition was first submitted to the Lyons Government by the then Minister for Trade and Customs  (Sir Henry Gullett),  I have been convinced that there is an excellent case for the manufacture of motor cars in this country. I was 'first convinced by several facts which that honorable gentleman brought to light. One of these stands  out clearly in my memory - the fact that we in Australia use more motor ears than are used in Italy, which is the home of the large Fiat organization. I understand that Italy has a big export trade in motor cars, but I can conceive that, in the not far distant future, we also shall have a big motor export trade. Already Australia has a steel export trade which is holding its own in the markets of the world. I was convinced of the soundness of this industry for another reason: Because of my knowledge of imported motor .cars, I know full well that Australian, purchasers are not getting full value for their money. fe know we pay dearly for bodies under our protective tariff, but the price which is paid for imported chassis and engines is exorbitant. Even if the production of cars in this country should result in a high price at least until .the industry was established, I for one would prefer that the few extra pounds should go not to foreign manufacturers, but to the Australian manufacturers from whom I should have some chance of getting a little money back by selling to them goods or services. "When  Sir Henry  Gullett's proposals were adopted in 1936, what movement was made by those interests which we would naturally expect to do something? Nothing was done. "Whatever criticisms may have been offered - and I regret that the proposal to manufacture motor cars in Australia has been thrown into the political limelight - the Government was endeavouring to establish a big industry, one that would be worthwhile; but the project was tarnished by political criticism and unworthy statements which have been made with regard to the personal honour of men connected with the transaction. . I do not acquit the Government of. ineptness in these, negotiations, as I shall show later. The headings in the schedule could have, -been tightened up and made more precise, and could have stated definite principles that we could have endorsed. "When the bill is in the committee stages I shall indicate what I think should be done in this regard. "What happened in these negotiations L« obvious. None of the big overseas motor companies desired a new manufacturing unit to be established. I know of at least two that were waiting, so that immediately an organization started without the protection of a monopoly, they could throw all their resources, their blue prints, their technical information, their  superior knowledge, their trained artisans and engineers, and "up to the minute equipment, into the industry in such a way that- the local manufacturer, would have no chance whatever, and could not continue production. Knowing this, the local manufacturers were afraid to invest money. I assure honorable senators that that was the state of affairs which existed during the period I held office in the Lyons Government. I have come to view any proposal for the manufacture of motor cars in Australia with great favour. Considering this matter in the light of what has happened since and of conditions which prevail all over the world to-day, I think that there should be a greater effort to ensure that those industries in Australia which have certain classes of machinery that could be used in the production of motor cars, are brought into line with the company that is entering into this agreement with the Commonwealth Government. The duplication of huge presses which stand in factories at Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide is economic waste. There should have been less haste in. the making of this agreement, and more examination of details. No doubt the- Government said, " Here is a proposal at last; here is somebody prepared to put up the money ". Surely it is to be expected, that in undertaking a work of such magnitude, the Government will fully explore all liabilities; and' on ,that score I cannot absolve it of all blame. The Senate is now asked to ratify the agreement which will give effect to matters specified in the schedule. I regard this as a non-party measure, the- parties voting how they please, just - as they would on a tariff bill, to give the Government what I regard as an open cheque. 
I know of no case except in international agreements such as that between the Commonwealth and Greece which was before the Senate to-day. I know of no transactions of this magnitude, in which the Government is pledging itself to operate the law in favour of a company, that has not to be submitted to Parliament, clause by clause, and line by line. These headings are mere generalities, which are capable of expansion and contraction, and of being interpreted in one way or another by the Government and its advisers. As this is a non-party measure, surely we have the right to say that the agreement, when finalized, shall be brought before both branches of the legislature for ratification. Clause 4 of the bill states - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any act relating to the imposition of duties of Customs, no duties of Customs shall be im- posed and collected in respect of machinery - 
which is required to be used in the production of engines and chassis for motor vehicles by the company formed in pursuance of an agreement executed by authority of this act; 
Although I shall vote for the second reading of the measure, that provision seems to strengthen the case in support of the charge that this company will enjoy a monopoly. The company is to be given an advantage over every other Australian company. Whether it is to have Australian capital or foreign capital, it will have the advantage of admission of its machinery duty free. That seems to me to be a matter over which this Parliament should retain some degree of control. In paragraph 3 of the schedule, an attempt is made to protect local manufacturers of motor parts. The paragraph reads - 
That the proposed company will purchase from established Australian manufacturers of motor vehicle parts such parts as can be supplied by them at reasonable prices and manufacture the remainder of the chassis at the works of the proposed company. It is, however, anticipated that the electrical equipment, crankshaft and a few minor items will need to be imported during the early stages of manufacture. 
As it is proposed to hand over in general terms, power to the Executive to frame the agreement, it is our duty on that score alone to see that the agreement comes back for final ratification by the Parliament. Apart altogether from party considerations, when the Government submits this bill as a non-party measure, it asksfor authority to enter into the agreement under the headings outlined in the schedule, but surely the agreement should he subject to ratification by the Parliament. 
We should not create a huge industrial organization which may result in the destruction of other industries that arc giving good service to the community. Judging by the speeches made during the Corio by-election, that point was well taken in regard to that district. What would happen to the industries there if some protection were not given to them? I appreciate what was done in the House of Representatives yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin).  He realized that this bill would never see the light of day if he persisted in the amendment which he submitted on the second reading, and he agreed to withdraw it if the monopolistic clauses were deleted. But it seems to me that the Government would be better advised to have those clauses retained, so long as the company is under government control. Nevertheless, we should see that the competitive companies are not bled white. Paragraph 10 of the schedule states - 
That the Commonwealth will use its powers under the various regulations issued under the National Security Act 1939 in respect of capital issues and the control of industries in order to safeguard the interests of the proposed company against the establishment of similar manufacture in Australia by foreign or foreign controlled companies. 
I do not share the views of my colleague,  Senator James  McLachlan, in regard to foreign capital. During the last few weeks, the Treasurer has placed an embargo on the export of capital to foreign countries and on the dividends and profits of certain companies operating in our midst. Paragraph 12 of the schedule states - 
That the Commonwealth will fora period of five years use its best endeavours . . . to prohibit all sorts of things. That is delightful! What does it mean? Will the Government wipe out some companies altogether? Is it to exercise its power of eminent domain? I am reminded that, when I held the exalted but unprofitable portfolio of Postmaster-General I was approached by a director of an Australian company, who said :  " I have £2,000,000 to start a motor-car industry in Australia. I shall not start it unless I can get protection against the foreign-controlled companies ". I replied : " We cannot give you monopolistic protection. I do not think that there is any power at law to do that; but, if I submitted the matter to the Cabinet, and got Cabinet to give a direction to the Supply and Tender Board of the post office, and all of the large Government departments, that they should use your motor cars, would you accept that?" He said that he would not. He wanted a monopoly to protect him against the other companies to which I have referred, and which, with their technical services and long experience behind them, would put him out of business. I spoke to the late Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons),  and he, like  Mr. Men-  zies, said that he would grant no monopoly. The industry will never be started unless something of that kind be lone, and I think that  Mr. Curtin  would have been well advised to say, "We will give you the whole jug full ". That would be safer than a loose arrangement. Under this agreement the company could ask for practically all of the Government business, and it must be given that business, " provided running efficiency, suitability and price of the vehicles are satisfactory to the Commonwealth ". Much will depend on the way in which the agreement is prepared. Paragraph 16 of the schedule provides that the company is to have p laced at its disposal, to the absolute exclusion of every other company, the technical resources of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. It states - 
That the Commonwealth will accord the usual co-operation of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and Aeronautical Research Laboratories in an endeavour to aid the proposed company in the technical manufacturing problems with which the company may be confronted. 
Then why should paragraph 17 be embodied in the schedule? It states - 
That the Commonwealth is prepared sympathetically to consider the question of dutyfree admission of the engine and chassis parts in respect of which it is mutually agreed that importation is initially necessary for the manufacture of motor vehicle engines and chassis. 
That is one of the matters against which a safeguard should be provided. The Commonwealth " will sympathetically consider " the granting of freedom from duty. I have drawn many hundreds of agreements, but I have never had to work any sympathy into them! The case becomes clear for the exercise, at a subsequent stage, of control by this Parliament. 
That paragraph reads - 
That the Commonwealth will retain the import control established in the year one thousand nine hundred and thirty -six over the innportation of motor vehicle engines and chassis and will use this import control, if necessary, to counteract any unfair trading methods which may be adopted by overseas interests in selling competitive vehicles in Australia. 
It may be. That is another point which indicates that the agreement should come back to the Parliament for ratification. I doubt very much the validity of any power to grant a monopoly to a particular industry. The only way to do that is through the tariff, but that would leave the company open to the competition of such capital as is available in this country. Whilst I fully agree that the establishment of the industry is necessary, I do not admire the way in which it is proposed to be done. I shall vote against  Senator James  McLachlan's amendment, which if accepted, would practically kill the bill. I shall vote for the second reading of the measure, and, in committee, I shall submit an amendment, to clause 3; to give to. the Parlia-ment  an opportunity to see to what the country is to be committed before the agreement is. finally ratified.. 
.-- I am not concerned as to who gets the benefit so long a3 motor vehicles are manufactured in Australia. This measure cannot correctly be referred to as a motor-car bill, because it deals with motor vehicles, including motor trucks. To refer to it as a measure dealing with motor cars, is to give the impression that it is intended to encourage the manufacture of engines of 15 horsepower to be used in cars for ordinary pleasure purposes. It is nothing of the kind . The great .bulk of modern transport business is clone in motor vehicles of varying horse-power and this measure is to encourage the manufacture of engines of 15 horse-power and over. One objection that has been raised to the bill is that it is essentially a proposal for consideration in peace time, and should be postponed for some years until the world is at peace again. I contend, however, that if the encouragement of this industry is necessary in peace time it is ten times more necessary in wartime, because nearly all units of a modern army are mechanized. 
I have already explained that this bill does not limit engines to 15 horse-power. If I were a manufacturer of motor cars and I had a monopoly in the manufacture of under 15 horse-power engines, I would be in a much happier position than I would be if I were manufacturing in competition with other men in the 15 horsepower and over class. It is certain that in future our Defence Forces will have to depend more and more upon mechanized forms of transport, and if we have to send to America for essential engines we shall be in a very bad way. I regard this measure as one of the most vital planks in the Government's defence programme. It is essentially a war-time proposal. A second objection that has been urged against the bill is that during war-time the establishment of this  industry  will divert from existing and essential industries skilled men who are required to. carry on the Government's defence industries. I have, been engaged in manufacturing for a long time., and have no hesitation in saying thatthere is nothing whatever in that objection. Motor-car engines, like a great many other types of equipment, are mass-produced on what is known as the line system. Fully fourfifths of the work is done, not. by skilled men, but by process workers. Practically the only skilled tradesmen required would be for the initial laying down of the general scheme. After that the work would be done by process workers. I. myself, could manufacture motor-car engines because I have the necessary machinery, but I have to admit that I could not produce them at a competitive price. Let us see what  Mr. Smith,  the managing director of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, is likely to get out of this proposal. As a start, he is risking £1,000,000 of his eompany'3 capital, so if he does not make a success of the venture that money will be lost. 
That is true. If Australian Consolidated Industries Limited should not succeed the Commonwealth will not lose anything because the Government is not putting any money into the business, apart from its undertaking to pay a bounty of £30 for each engine up to the first, 20,000 and a slightly reduced bounty for subsequent deliveries. 
Some honorable senators have concentrated their attention on paragraph 13 of the schedule which provides that the Commonwealth will, during a- period 'of five years from the date of commencement of manufacture, purchase a substantial proportion of Commonwealth Department requirements from the proposed company. In my view that is practically all that the proposed new company will get out of this proposal. Other honorable senators have directed attention to paragraph 15, which enacts that the Commonwealth will retain the import control of motor-vehicle engines and chassis.- But surely every one knows that the influential American companies which  arc so strongly represented in Australia must in future manufacture engines here if they wish to hold their business. Thus the suggestion that the import control by the Government will give to the proposed new company some advantage, falls to the ground. The only benefit which that company will get over other competitors will 'be the bounty of £30 for engines and a substantial proportion of government orders. In paragraph 10 of the schedule the Commonwealth undertakes to use its powers under the various regulations issued under the National Security Act in respect of capital issues and the control of industries in order to safeguard the interests of the proposed company against the establishment of similar manufacture in Australia by foreign or foreigncontrolled companies. Again, in my view, objection to the proposal on that ground will not stand examination, because the companies already represented here have ample capital already, and they will not require the permission of the Treasurer 
Vo increase their capital. I know of no regulations issued up to the present time that would prevent these so-called foreign companies from manufacturing motorcar engines in Australia if they wanted to do so. 
That is not so unless their capital was 66 per cent. Australian. I am rather sorry for what has been said about these so-called foreign companies, because for many years we have been endeavouring to persuade them to manufacture in Australia engines and chassis which at present are being imported. I do not think that any distinction should be made between the two classes of manufacturers. But nothing in the schedule will prevent these powerful overseas companies from manufacturing engines in this country if they want- to do so. They have at their disposal all the technical, skill required, and it would be a comparatively easy matter for them to bring to Australia sufficient skilled men to begin manufacturing hero. Paragraph 15 will give the Commonwealth power to control imports, but as these companies will almost cer tainly begin manufacturing internal combustion engines in Australia, there is no power in the act to interfere with them. 
The companies would, of course, have to pay import duty, whereas the. proposed Australian company would not. That would be one advantage for the local concern. But as I have endeavoured to explain, the existing companies would have a big star' over any new venture in the manufacture of motor-car engines because they have in America efficient organizations and have had many years' experience in the business. It is evident, of course, thai had the Government not introduced this bill, these companies would not have made any move to manufacture internal combustion engines in Australia. Now they will be obliged to do so in order to hold their business. 
I do not know. 
I understand that that came out in evidence before the Tariff Board, and I think that the Ford company, by exaggerating, damaged its case. i repeat that had it not been for the offer by Australian Consolidated Industries Limited and the agreement made by the Government, there was little hope of any of the existing companies ever manufacturing motor engines or chassis in Australia. Even if we were not at war this industry would be of great importance to Australia; but at present it is absolutely essential that internal combustion engines for use in our mechanized units should be manufactured, as in that way the defence of the Commonwealth would be assisted materially. 
.  -  Although I do not wish to delay the passage of this important bill, there are certain points to which I wish to direct, attention. It is quite obvious that a concentrated effort has been made by one section of the Parliament to pre-  vent the manufacture of internal combustion engines in Australia, and it is regrettable that that section should wish bo defer this proposal, which has already been too long deferred, when the industry would assist our commercial and defence activities. I agree with  Senator Abbott  that we should do everything possible to assist in the successful prosecution of the war, but I cannot support his contention that this industry should not be established in Australia at this juncture. Apparently the honorable, senator Overlooks the fact that circumstances may arise in which we would be unable to obtain overseas the engines we require, and that therefore provision should now be made for their manufacture in Australia. My only regret is that this industry is not to be established in "Western Australia, a State which has been overlooked in connexion with the manufacture of defence requirements. I have heard members of the Country party suggest that foreign capital should be attracted to Australia in order to assist in its development, but when a large sum is to be invested in an important industrial activity they object. I remind honorable senators that the Australian iron and steel industry has been developed under the bounty system, the method proposed in this instance. This proposal originated in a bill which passed through this Parliament in 1938, and since then money has been accumulating for this specific purpose. Moreover the establishment of the industry will .provide employment for a large number of skilled and unskilled persons in the post-war period, when many of our defence establishments will not be functioning. Although  Senator Johnston  tells us that he is a supporter of the Government, so far as I have been able to judge since I have been a in ember of this chamber, he opposes practically every measure which comes before it. I notice from the newspapers that scrap iron is being collected in Great Britain for war purposes, and if the war lasts for some time and there is a greater demand for iron the iron ore deposits in Australia will have to be developed to a greater degree. As Western Australia is 1,800 miles nearer to Britain than the deposits controlled by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company 
Limited, the Commonwealth Government should establish smelting works in Western Australia and by that means compensate the State to some slight degree for the disabilities it experiences under the federal system. Although the people of that State have, in common with those in other parts of Australia, to pay customs duties in order to encourage secondary production, owing to our geographical situation, the establishment of our own secondary industries is uneconomic. Any assistance which our secondary industries receive is from the State government and not from the Commonwealth authorities. When it was first suggested that the manufacture of internal combustion engines was to be undertaken in Australia, I received a cablegram from a gentleman in South Africa inquiring as to the estimated price at which the cars would be sold and whether there was a possibility of establishing agencies in the Union. This shows that other countries are interested in the project, and I am confident that when the industry is in full production, the Australian people will have cheap cars and there will be an opportunity to build up a profitable export trade. One of the most important features of this proposal is that employment will be provided, particularly during the post-war period, for many men who may be displaced through the cessation of war-time industries. I support the bill. 
I intend to support the amendment moved by  Senator James  McLachlan because, at this critical period of our history, Australia, as au integral part of the British Empire, should not be discussing the manufacture of motor cars, but should be devoting all its energies to the successful prosecution of the war in which we are so vitally involved. Owing to the high price of petrol, probably thousands of cars are not in use, and should there be a further increase of price, the number out of commission will be even greater. If this project were a portion of our defence scheme, I would not hesitate to support it, but as the manufacture of arms, munitions, aircraft, aircraft engines and foodstuffs is more essential to our national security, there is no urgency for this measure. There are some paragraphs in the proposed agreement under which monopolistic control can be established, and for that reason, too, I am opposed to the bill. The company which is to control the undertaking will enjoy rights which are denied to others. Any company wishing to engage in the production of motor cars has sufficient protection under our bounty legislation and customs duties, and there ' is no reason why this measure should be passed. We have been informed that it is in the interests of Australia to attract capital from overseas for investment in industry, but under this measure investment in this industry will be impracticable. I intend to support the amendment to defer the whole project, but if that amendment be rejected, I shall oppose the second reading of the bill. 
I was astounded to hear the objections raised by  Senator Abbott,  and I was even more astounded when I heard the amendment moved by  Senator James  McLachlan, the effect of which is to prevent the investment of £1,000,000 of private capital in an industry which will be of inestimable benefit to Australia. As this company is to provide its own capital without any financial assistance from the Government, I am surprised that some honorable senators should oppose the project.  Senator Abbott,  who said that we could not win the war with motor cars, should realize that should Australia be invaded, thousands of lorries and trucks would be required to transport our troops from one centre to another. Honorable senators who say that "second-hand cars can be conveniently converted for the transport of military material and light arms should think more deeply. Apparently, they do not realize just exactly what is involved in such operations. The vehicles would necessarily be loaded in a hurry, and I am sure that they would not stand up to this kind of work for very long. Cn any case sufficient numbers of used cars would not be available, even if they were suitable, for this purpose. Apparently some honorable senators have an exaggerated opinion of the condition of the average used car. Perhaps they have had eyes only for the shining paint which is so lavishly applied to used cars before they are exhibited for sale. They should test a few of these vehicles. I have not the slightest doubt that any attempt to transport large quantities of troops and material in such vehicles would be doomed to failure. Most of them would soon break down, and cause confusion on the route. 
If imports of motor cars and trucks are to he restricted the need for manufacturing our own vehicles becomes increasingly urgent. It is all very well for some honorable senators to say that in a time of emergency the Military Forces could commandeer sufficient vehicles, but this could not be done without causing serious dislocation in the distribution of essential commodities for the use of the community. If imports of motor vehicles are to  be  restricted we have no alternative but to manufacture our own, and to get on with the job quickly. It has  Deen  said that the establishment of this industry will draw upon the supply of mechanics to the detriment of our munitions manufacturing programme. Should we have no alternative we can, in the last resort, transfer mechanics from this industry to defence industries, but I contend that this industry also will prove to be most important from a defence point of view. I am not wholly satisfied with several provisions of the bill. However, I do not intend to delay its passage. If any honorable senator opposite is prepared to propose amendments in the committee stage, honorable senators on this side will approach their proposals with an open mind. Much has been made of the argument that Australian Consolidated Industries Limited is to be given preference over any other company which might desire to undertake the manufacture of motor cars. As the bounty is to be paid in respect of engines of 15 horse-power and over, this company will enjoy no concession so far as engines for. light cars are concerned. Yet the present keen demand for the light car should not diminish. Consequently, any company can enter this field of car manufacture at no disadvantage compared with Australian Consolidated 
Industries Limited. I shall support any amendment proposed in the committee stage which I believe will improve the measure, in any respect. However, on the whole, I approve the bill. 
 I support the measure. The feature of this debate has been the attitude taken up by  Senator Abbott  and  Senator James  McLachlan. . The former seems to have a conveniently short, memory.. He contended that in the present crisis we should be dealing with more important matters. He said that this Parliament was simply wasting time in considering this measure at this juncture. I remind him that when Germany was over-running Holland and Belgium last week, this chamber occupied one day, and the House of Representatives four days, in discussing the electoral bill. It cannot be said that that measure is in any way related to our war effort, but the honorable senator did not protest that Parliament was wasting time when it was dealing with that legislation. This measure is of vital importance to the workers of this country and the nation as a whole. The present is a most opportune time to commence an enterprise of this. kind. If we do not accept this opportunity . to establish this industry we shall be obliged to wait for a very long period before another attempt is made to manufacture, cars in this country. The time is ripe to commence this enterprise, and  a  company has come forward prepared to take the financial risks involved. 
I am inclined to agree with the honorable senator, but, at the same time, we must admit that  Mr. Smith,  the general manager of Australian Consolidated Industries, whether we like him personally or not, is one of the greatest organizing brains in this country. He could not have so rapidly developed his business in Sydney to its present huge proportions unless he were a man of outstanding ability. He is the kind of man to whom we can confidently entrust the establishment of this industry. If he and his. company are prepared to shoulder the risks involved, we should give to them every encouragement in this enterprise. If the company can make a success of this venture I shall not cavil at the profits it may make, - provided it produces cars of a standard equal to the American and British vehicles now imported into this country, and makes them available to our people at a reasonable price.. If he can do this  Mr. Smith  will confer many benefits upon this country. To-day, the prices charged for imported cars are much in excess of their  true  value. There can be no doubt about that. Last year General Motors Corporation in America made a profit of 183,000,000 dollars. Yet many people in this country are reluctant -to grant any concession to an Australian company in order to enable it to fight  so powerful a concern as that American corporation, which has in Australia, several subsidiary 'companies, all of the ordinary shares in which are held overseas. One of these : subsidiary companies is General Motors-Holdens Limited, which made a profit last year of £1,000,000. I should be interested to know how much of that sum is represented in the profit of the parent American company. For some years now General Motors-Holdens Limited and the Ford Company have been making a fair thing out of the industry in Australia, but. neither .bf these companies has displayed any intention :.to manufacture complete, cars here. If  either had done so. the necessity for this bill would- not have arisen. However, if Australian . Consolidated Industries Limited had not been prepared to undertake this venture, it is probable that we should have been impelled to force these American subsidiary companies to manufacture complete cars in Australia. In this connexion I recall the visits paid to Australia by Lord Nuffield. Undoubtedly he made most generous' gifts to this country, but I feel sure that had he undertaken the manufacture of Morris cars in Australia he would have conferred greater benefits upon this nation. However, he declined to do so. Lord Austin adopted a similar attitude. Four years have elapsed since the- first step was taken to encourage the manufacture of motor engines in this country. I cannot understand why this delay has occurred, because no serious technical difficulties arise' in this work. Recently when I visited- thb  works of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,  which is manufacturing Wirraway planes for the Commonwealth Government, I was amazed at the precision work involved in such an undertaking. Commander Wackett, who is in charge of these works, explained to me that the manufacture of motor engines was mere- child's play compared with the production of high-class aeroplane engines. He said that no technical problems existed to make it difficult for us to manufacture motor engines equal to any produced elsewhere. Considerable opposition has been shown to this bill by certain sections of the community. That is quite to he expected, because it has been the policy of big business for as long as I can remember, that every endeavour should be made to prevent the entry of competitors into the industrial field. Steps .are always taken to see that competitors do not live. I have no doubt that General MotorsHoldens Limited and the Ford Motor Company are extremely anxious that the motor-car industry should not be established in Australia. Since the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and Australian Consolidated Industries was announced at the end of last year, there has been a continuous  hullabulloo  from these firms. We know quite well what would have happened. They would have kept on dealing with this matter in the manner which we have so often seen used by big business interests. They would have made every effort to ensure that this industry was strangled at birth, and motor cars would not have been produced here despite huge profits from the buying public. The basis of the arguments put forward in opposition to this bill has been that this industry is not essential to our war effort, but I submit that if there is one industry that we must develop in the national interest it is the motor-car industry. One of the outstanding features of this war, and it has come as a shock to many of us, has been.  the lightning  mobility of the  conflict. We have seen this fast-moving warfare in actual progress, and:- we have been astounded  at the result. Nobody who based his ideas of military strategy on what took place in 1914-18 could possibly have imagined the speed at which the present conflict has taken place. .In Australia, where capital cities and big centres of population are so widely spaced, mobility is the greatest need in our defence forces. I have heard the statement that the motor car is of no use in modern warfare, but I remind honorable senators of the valiant part played by the taxi cabs of Paris in 1914 in conveying large numbers of troops at a rapid rate to meet the fast-moving German armies. If the motor-car industry be established in. Australia, the basis will have been laid for the speedy and efficient mobilization of troops. With modern transport vehicles it is possible for huge bodies of troops to cover distances of 40, 50 or 60 miles a day. In the American publication,  Life,  two months ago appeared a photograph of a New York wharf on which, lined up as far as the eye could see, were motor trucks ready for transport to England. If England has reached the stage in its development when it has seen fit to augment its own production of motor vehicles by purchases from America, surely we in Australia must do our part to build up the motoroar industry here. If in time we did not need all of the cars we produced here we might be able to make some of them available to Great Britain, as we have clone with Lockheed bombers which we ordered from the United States of America. ' Our orders for those bombers have been transferred to Great Britain because of the urgent need for aircraft there, and it may be that we would be able to supply that country with motor vehicles should our local production exceed the Australian demand. From what I have seen of industrial development at the Fisherman's Bend aircraft factory, I am convinced that the most important factor in the training of technicians and skilled tradesmen is their employment in growing industries. By placing men in skilled industrial occupations, we shall form the nucleus of a competent staff which can later be employed in training other young artisans. When the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation's factory at Fisherman's Bend was first started, the problem confronting the organizers was that of obtaining trained workers. They started off by employing a few men, probably fifteen or twenty leading hands who had been trained years before in the industry by Commander Wackett himself, to teach the raw hands who knew nothing whatever of the job. When I visited the factory the employees numbered many hundreds, who are now in a position to assist in the expansion of the industry by going as instructors to other centres where aircraft production is to be embarked upon. Within twelve months of the opening of a motor-car factory in New South Wales, there will be built up an efficient nucleus from which trained men can be further spread to industries in other parts of the Commonwealth. The great need of this country to-day is trained men. Unless we have organizations such as the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, there will be no means of training men. One of the greatest advantages of the creation of a motor-car industry in Australia will be the fact that in that industry there will be thousands of artisans in various stages of training, from probationary work right up to highlyskilled occupations. It is apparent that the huge factories which will be necessary for the large-scale production of motor cars, will be readily convertible to war work should circumstances demand it. We have seen what has happened in England in that way; factories which in peace-time were producing all sorts of commodities, have been put on a war-production basis and are now successfully turning out large quantities of munitions and other essential war requirements. Should large factories be established here for the manufacture of motor cars, it is quite possible that, if circumstances warranted it, they would be taken over by the Government in the interests of the nation, .for the manufacture of munitions. To-day an urgent problem that is claiming the attention of governments is that of youth employment. It has been becoming increasingly difficult to find work for the many thousands of lads who leave school each year, and who, in the absence of steady jobs, are hanging around street corners. The establishment of this great secondary industry will absorb large numbers of these young men. I know that in Sydney there are many lads who at the age of sixteen or eighteen are " too old " to obtain jobs. Boys leaving school at the age of fourteen years have little trouble in obtaining employment as messengers, &amp;c, but when they reach the age of sixteen or seventeen years they find that employers are giving their jobs to younger lads and there is no work for them. Even at that immature age they are being put on the industrial scrapheap. The efforts of these young lads to find employment are tragic. Some young men have gone right through life since leaving school without having any regular earnings until their enlistment in the Australian Imperial Force. With an organization such as Australian Consolidated Industries Limited engaged in the manufacture of motor-car engines in this country, lads who received employment would not have the same fear of dis-  missal at a later age, because no doubt if a boy made a success of his work his services as a skilled tradesman would be retained. Therefore, from that point of view this industry will be valuable,, particularly in New South Wales, where the factory is to be established. 
It has been alleged that we are supporting a monopoly, but if the choice confronting us is between on the onn hand, a monopoly and a motor car fae tory, and, on the other hand, no monopoly and no factory, I have no hesitation in supporting the monopoly so long as the industry is to be effectively controlled. After hearing all the nice things said about the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited during the debate on the Sugar Agreement Bill last week, I have come to wonder whether there may not be some good in monopolies after all. Throughout Australia monopolies are flourishing, and I do not suppose one more or less will do us any harm. Possibly the results of the work of this monopoly will he so beneficial that in the future we shall be impelled to say the same nice things about it as were said last week about the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited by certain honorable members of both the Government and the Opposition. So long as unemployed boys are to be absorbed in useful occupations I shall do everything in my power to help industries of this  character to be established. In my opinion the real test of whether or not a government is successful is its handling of the unemployment problem. Evidence that the Commonwealth Government has not been doing its job is to be found in the fact that there are too many unemployed - many of them boys - in the capital cities. Here is a golden opportunity to absorb at least some of these lads. I support the bill, not only in the hope that it will bring into being an important industry which in the years to come will continue to expand, but also, because I believe that its establishment will be of great material benefit to many thousands of workers who to-day have no jobs. 
I support this bill in the belief that this industry will soon grow to one of the wealthiest and most progressive industrial undertakings in this country. I should like to congratulate the former Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. John Lawson)  on the important pan ' which he played in the making of the agreement which is the basis of this legislation. I was interested to hear a tribute paid to the honorable gentleman by  Senator Amour  who referred to a " slip " that had been made. Unfortunately that " slip " was so magnified during the Corio by-election campaign that by polling day it had assumed the proportions of a monstrosity. 
We would, because this bill is identical with the measure which the Government had already drafted. It is interesting to note that during the debate yesterday in the House of Representatives the honorable member for Corio  (Mr. Dedman)  was the only man who opposed the establishment of the motor-car industry in Australia. In fact, he supported an amendment which was designed to kill the industry. In doing so he was at leastconsistent with Labour's attitude during the Corio campaign. But Labour's purpose in attacking the agreement had been served.  Mr. Dedman  had won the Corio seat, and the party was free to reverse its attitude. The opposition to the bill on the part of some honorable senators supporting the Government has been based on the claim that all our efforts should be devoted to an expansion of war industries; and that the time is not opportune for starting the manufacture of motor cars. I am confident, however, that had this bill been introduced twelve months ago, or even if it were introduced two years hence, the time would still not be opportune. It was further said that the industry would retard our war efforts. Whether the industry be established or not the manufacture of aeroplanes will not be interfered with. The war has only just begun and the Defence Departmentis already using several thousands of motor cars. I would have supported the establishment of the industry twelve months ago, even if no war had been in progress. In modern warfare, the country that can provide the largest, number of mechanized units has tremendous advantages over its adversaries. 
No member of this Parliament could honestly say that the industry could be undertaken without a monopoly. Although no monopoly is to be expressly given, I contend that the company will exercise monopolistic powers, because the Australian market for motor cars is so limited that a second company is not likely to embark on such an undertaking. In 1936, a duty was imposed on engines and chassis of motor vehicles, in order to provide a fund for the payment of bounty to encourage the establishment of the industry in Australia. For three and a half years the duty' has been imposed, and the total sum collected is about £1,500,000. Four years ago the Government considered that a start, should be made to establish the industry, but at that time the great motor car firms in Australia said that they were not interested. They made .a statement to the Tariff Board which convinces me that they were not only not interested, but also prepared to .place obstacles in the way of local manufacture. They did not submit even one proposition. Then the Government went outside the motor industry. It found that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was not interested. Next it approached Australian Consolidated 
Industries Limited,whose managing director immediately said, " In what way are you prepared to protect my interests?" The Government replied, as it would have said to any other such company, that it would give certain exclusive rights. Because of that concession, an understanding was reached with that company regarding the establishment of the industry. The " no monopoly " provision that has been inserted in the bill in the House of Representatives is not worth a snap of the fingers. When Australian Consolidated Industries Limited commences manufacture no competitor will enter the field, as the market is too limited. 
Whether we have a particular interest in this company and its managing director, or not, the fact is that the company is prepared to undertake an expenditure of £1,000,000 or more before it receives the right to collect £1 of bounty. Great capacity and tremendous courage are required of a company before it can enter into an undertaking such as that envisaged by this bill, and we know that the managing director possesses those qualities. In a few years the industry will, I believe, prove a monument to the memory of the man who was prepared to risk his personal reputation, and a tremendous amount of capital, in establishing the industry. I have heard nothing to shake my determination to give to this measure my wholehearted support. 
The Labour party has consistently urged the establishment of the motor vehicle manufacturing industry in Australia. As long ago as 1936, the parties supporting the Government made up their minds that this action would be in the interests of the country. At that time a tax of about £5 on each motor chassis was imposed for the purpose of establishing a fund for the encouragement of the industry, and the sum raised has reached £1,500,000. Arguments were advanced for the purpose of preventing the establishment of the industry, but similar arguments have been used throughout the period in which Australia has been endeavouring to develop its secondary industries. Whenever the establishment of a new industry is proposed, certain interests declare that it would be impossible to launch it, but a new argument is now advanced. It is said that, because a war is raging, the establishment of this industry should again be delayed. In December last, the Parliament passed the Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Act. The war was in progress at that time, and Australia was preparing to build up its defences. I know of no honorable senator now opposing this measure who suggested in December last that, on account of the war, the establishment of the industry should be deferred. 
Had it not been for " the slip " made by the then Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. John Lawson),  we should not have been discussing this measure to-day. Any company that desired to take advantage of the Motor Vehicle Engine Bounty Act 1939 could have participated in the fund. Therefore, a certain degree of suspicion prevails in the minds of some of us with regard to this measure. It is rather remarkable that when that act was introduced, negotiations were in progress, unknown to the Parliament and behind its back, to grant a monopoly to a certain company. Every honorable senator who voted in favour of the bounty act thought that he was doing something to enable the interested parties to participate in the bounty. 
If the honorable senator was in possession of information which he did not disclose to the Senate, during that debate, there are good reasons why a measure of this kind should be carefully scrutinized. There is something wrong, if the honorable senator knew in December last that negotiations for the granting of a monopoly were proceeding. The measure was introduced in the dying hours of the session when proper attention could not be given to it. We all were anxious to have it passed because it was designed to encourage the establishment of a new industry that would provide work for thousands of our people, and we wanted to prevent a recurrence of the unsatisfactory position that was created after the last war. Our leader  (Senator Collings)  welcomed it. But evidently there was something sinister behind the whole scheme.Already a plot had been  hatched, and when Parliament was safely in recess the Government entered into negotiations with the company for the purpose of giving to it a monopoly. But for what some people regard as an unfortunate incident, . the agreement to give Australian Consolidated Industries Limited a monopoly in this new enterprise would have been completed behind the back of Parliament. Consequent on something that happened, but not because he was opposed to the granting of a monopoly, the Prime Minister deemed it expedient to refer the agreement to Parliament for ratification. 
Certainly. The Prime Minister decided to ask Parliament to ratify the agreement, merely because the real nature of the proposal had been uncovered. That is the story which we' told to the electors of Corio. We made it plain to the people that there had been some double-dealing on the part of the Government and its supporters over this matter. 
We have now reached the stage where again, in the last hours of this period of the session, it is necessary for Parliament to approve the making of an agreement with this company. I have no doubt whatever that another attempt will be made to create a monopoly. Is it any wonder that honorable senators on this side have some suspicion about it? We are under a debt of gratitude to  Senator A.  J. McLachlan for the manner in which he dissected the proposal. I approve of much of what he said, but I fail to see why he should be indignant simply because, so he told us, wc were being asked to give the Government a blank cheque. That complaint comes strangely from the honorable gentleman who, as a member of other governments, should be accustomed to the receipt of blank cheques from this Parliament. Only a few weeks ago, this Government received from Parliament a blank cheque giving to it control over the lives of the people of this country in order to prosecute the war to ii successful conclusion. 
The bill is to approve the making of an agreement with Australian Consolidated Industries Limited. What is to be put into the agreement ? 
Look at the bill. 
We shall respect its rights. 
The honorable senator may not understand the agreement, but it will he there for him to see. 
That statement is inaccurate. 
-Does  the honorable senator intend to support the bill? 
 Nor is there anything in this bill to prevent that from being done. 
.-Although I support the bill, because I believe that it will be of great benefit to Australia, portions of the proposed agreement should be amended if our interests are to be fully safeguarded. I remind  Senator Abbott,  who is afraid that the establishment of the industry in Australia might be the means of diminishing our war effort, that four years ago a duty was imposed on imported motor engines and chassis with the result that £1,500,000 is now held in trust to assist the establishment of the motor-car industry in Australia, and that the taxpayers will not have to provide further financial assistance in that respect. That fund having been providedby the purchasers of motor cars, the honorable senator's fears are unjustified. As the industry is one of the most important that could be established in Australia, this is an opportune time to get it in operation, because it will be of benefit to the commercial community and eventually will be able to provide internal combustion engines for our mechanized military units. Moreover, many of our men who are now going overseas to fight for their country will derive some satisfaction from the knowledge that on their return employment will be available in this important undertaking. I remindSenator Dein, who referred to the attitude of the members of the Labour party who participated in the Corio by-election campaign, that the measure which we are now discussing is not the one that was objected to on that occasion. The clause which provided for monopolistic control has now been deleted. 
The members of the Labour party intend to support the bill in its amended form as the objectionable feature has been removed. Several paragraphs in the agreement are unsatisfactory to me. Clause 4 of the bill provides - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in any Act relating to the imposition of duties of Customs, no duties of Customs shall he imposed and collected in respect of machinery - 
which is required to be used in the production of engines and chassis for motor vehicles by the Company formed in pursuance of an agreement executed by authority of this Act; and 
Under that paragraph the industry may develop as' it has developed in other countries, particularly in the United States of America, and interfere with small industries. Under the Motor Industry Bounty Act a bounty of £30 is paid for each engine up to 20,000; £25 an engine on the next 20,000 ; and £20 on the next 20,000. In Australia approximately 10,000 cars are purchased annually, and if one-fourth of that number were manufactured by Australian Consolidated Industries Limited the company would receive £600,000. When a bounty was first paid on pig iron 25 years ago the expansion of that industry could not be  forseen.  and it is only reasonable to assume that the motor-car industry also will expand. Some of the provisions in the agreement are not sufficiently watertight, and I trust that care will be taken to ensure that this undertaking will not be the means of destroying small industries. Paragraph 15 provides - 
That the Government will retain the import control established in the year 1936 over the importation of motor vehicles, engines and chassis and will use this import control, if necessary, to counteract any unfair trading methods which may be adopted by overseas interests in selling competitive vehicles in Australia. 
That is a dangerous provision which requires modification, because the company has only to establish that it cannot manufacture successfully in Australia at a certain price and the Government can prevent competition. 
What is the definition of " unfair trading methods " ? 
Yes; the Tariff Board can go into the pros and cons of any claim made by the company, and in that way the position of the industry can be disclosed to the public. I" have often been accused of adopting a parochial attitude in defending the interests of New South Wales. Two honorable senators from South Australia are opposed to this agreement, but it is just as well to bear in mind that the new industry will compete with large motor works now operating in South Australia. At the same time, an honorable senator from Western Australia went so far as to say that whilst he was opposed to this measure, he would be favorably disposed towards the project if the proposal were to establish the industry in Western Australia. . Greater facilities exist in New South Wales than in" any other State for the establishment of this industry. At the same time, no companies in Western Australia, or South Australia, indicated to the Government that they were desirous of undertaking the manufacture of motor cars. I understand that when Australian Consolidated Industries Limited first intimated that it was willing to embark on this venture, the Premier of South Australia made representations to the Commonwealth Government with the object of launching the enterprise in that State. I have no doubt that, had those negotiations succeeded, the two honorable senators from South Australia who are opposing this measure would be all in favour of such a project. 
My principal reason for supporting the measure is that the establishment of this industry will provide employment for 10,000 semi-skilled artisans. So many men capable of doing this work are available, that we need have no fear whatever that the supply of artisans will be depleted to the detriment of our munitions manufacturing programme. The new industry will be of benefit to the nation as a whole, and I wish it every success. It will considerably strengthen our war effort, and play a major part in helping us to meet our post-war problems. 
This Parliament is being, asked to approve a certain agreement whereby Australian Consolidated Industries Limited contracts with the Commonwealth Government to manufacture motorcars in Australia. Throughout this debate not one honorable senator has touched upon the history of this company. I have made inquiries into its operations, and for the information of honorable senators, 
I quote the following extract from  Who Owns Australia,  a publication issued by J. N. Bawling, B.A., in October last: - 
Australian Consolidated Industries Limited was registered in 1915 as the Australian Glass Manufacturers Company Limited. The name was changed in February, 1939. The net profits for 1938 were a record, £324,512, and the dividend on the ordinary shares was about 25i per cent., disguised as 6.80 per cent, by an issue of bonus shares at the time of the change of name. For each of the years 1935, 1930 and 1937, 15 per cent, was paid to ordinary shareholders, and preference shareholders have regularly received' their 9 per cent. Tho balance-sheets from 1930 onwards have disclosed rapidly expanding reserves - from £471,350 in 1930 to £828,363 in 1938. But the manoeuvres associated with the- changing of the name tills year have disclosed that enormous secret reserves have been built up. The admitted reserves in 1938 were, as we have just stated, £S28,363. The surplus profits for 1938 were given as £09,1C4 - bringing the reserves up to £897,527. But - in this year's balancesheet the reserves are given as £2,670,429! In addition, sale of the company's assets - to its own subsidiaries - enabled it to issue to its shareholders bonus shares to the value of £2,558,840! Two and a half millions of water at one stroke ! The " paid-up " capital is therefore now £3,664,292; in 3,489,292 £1 ordinary shares and 175,000 preference shares. 
As a result of this year's,  manoeuvres  Australian Consolidated Industries is now a holding company and production is carried on by fourteen subsidiary companies, whose shares, held by the parent company, are given as of the value of £7,043,017. Those companies are as follows: - 
Australian Glass Manufacturers Company Proprietary Limited: Making glass containers of all kinds, Felspar and silica products. 
Australian Window Glass Proprietary Limited: Making- all kinds of window glass, figured rolled glass, glass bricks. 
Australian- Consolidated Industries Engineering Proprietary Limited: General engineering, machines, moulds, dies. 
Australian Consolidated Industries Fibre Packages Proprietary Limited: Corrugated strawboard boxes and containers. 
Australian, Consolidated Industries Investments Proprietary Limited: Managing the investments of the group. 
Australian Consolidated Industries Metal Stamping and Spinning Proprietary Limited: Makers of steel furniture, metal taps, lighting ware, stamped and spun metals. 
Australian Consolidated Investments Plastics Proprietary Limited: Manufacturing u comprehensive line of plastic articles. 
Bernard-Smith (Proprietary) Limited: Fabricated steels. 
Brunton's  Bright Steel Proprietary Limited: Free cutting  bright  steels. 
Crown Crystal Glass Proprietary Limited (Sydney) : Flint, blown, pressed, hand-cut crystal' glassware- and lighting ware. 
Dott and Company Proprietary Limited (Melbourne) : Flint and blown glassware ami lighting ware. 
New Zealand Glass Manufacturers Company Proprietary Limited: Glass containers of all descriptions and corrugated strawboard boxes. 
Queensland Glass Manufacturers Company Proprietary Limited: Glass containers of all kinds. 
South Australian Silicates Company Proprietary Limited: Silica, flint, kaolin. 
The other directors of Australian Consolidated Industries are E. Norton Grimwade, Wm. J. Smith, Major-General H. W. Grimwade, F. J. Smith, T. C. Alston, A. R Smith. Their other directorates (F. J. Smith we have already considered) are as follows: - E. N. Grimwade: Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins Limited, (wholesale chemists); H. W. Grimwade; F., G. and D., and Drug Houses of Australia Limited; Alston: Australian Mutual Provident, Kauri Timber Company, Melbourne Steamship, National Bank, Paterson Laing and Bruce. Australian Consolidated Industrie? holds 56,160 in Incorporated Consolidated Industries of Australia and New Zealand. 
The principal shareholders of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited at the 21st March, 1939, were - 
A. Anderson and B. S'. Norris, 16,207 and 1,629; A.P.A., 10.000 and 1,000; Bankers and  Traders  Insurance, 250 and 25;  Bugilbone  Pastoral Cc, Pty. (Sydney), 950 and 95: Dixson Trust. 12.000 and 1,200; R. C. Dixson, 3,750 and 375; W. Dixson, 3.750 and 375; Douglas Investments Pty., 8,750 and 875: Elliott Bros. Ltd., 6,000 and 600; F. Fielding and Co., 1,250 and 125;  Forestwood  Pty. 36,492 and 3,649; Great Eastern Life Assurance Co.. 
500 and 150:  Investire  Ltd., 1,225 and 122: Perpetual Trustee, 1,875 and 187; O. ,M. McCormick, 12,500 and 1,250; Manufacturers' Mutual Insurance,. 2.500 and 250; Mulgrave Pty., 3,487 and 348 ; Pacific Coal Co., 1,250 and 125; Perpetual Trustee Co., 16,772 and 1,677: Pilkington Bros., 25,000 and 2,500 ; Queensland Insurance Co., 2,500 and 250;. Schweppes Ltd., 13,997 and 1,399; Union Insurance Society of Canton, 3.000 and 300; Estate of late David Vance, 12,375 and 1,237; Washington H. Soul. Pattinson and Co., 17.250 and 1,725; Carleton Ward, 12,187 and 1,218; Assets Pty. [i.e. the Baillieus], 4,250 and 425; J. M. Baillieu, 312 and 31; Cronulla Pty., 2,000 and 200; A. S. Grimwade, 02.957 and 6,295;. P. M. Grimwade, 
II, 125 and 1,112; W. R. Grimwade, 37,287 and 3,728; F. W. Kitchen, 9,700* and 970;  Sir Alex.  Stewart, 11,252 and 1,125; Batman Exploration Co. 12.500 and 1,250; ¥.. N. Grimwade, 14,085 and 1,408; H. W. Grimwade, 23,000 and 2,300; Merrylands Pty. [again the Baillieus], 6,375 and 037 : Trustees Executors and Agency, 96,517 and 9,651; Lyon Investments Ltd. (Channel Islands), 2,775 and 277; Rationalist Press Association (London), 1,000 and 100; A. T. Palfreyman, 15.050 and 1,505; N.Z. Insurance Co.,. 12,750 and 1,275; A. S. Paterson and Co. (N.Z.), 7,250 and 725. 
That is the constitution of the company to which we are asked to give the right to manufacture motor cars in Australia. 
I shall support it for the reasons given by my Leader. As no other company appears to be coming forward to undertake the manufacture of motor-car engines and chassis in Australia, the establishment of the industry by this company may be the means of providing post-war employment for many men who, during the war, will be engaged in trades allied to the motor trade. 
That is my reason for supporting the bill. Paragraph 14 of the schedule provides that the Commonwealth will - 
take up with His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom the question of waiving its rights under the Ottawa Agreement for assured margins of preference in respect of such machinery. 
I hope that the waiving of that agreement will not be taken as a precedent when a proposal comes before us to establish in this country another industry which I understand is about to be started. Honorable senators will recollect that under the Ottawa. Agreement no industry may be commenced in this country without the permission of the manufacturers in Great Britain. 
The Assistant Minister for Commerce is endeavouring to mislead the Senate. It is clear from articles 9, 12 and 15 of the Ottawa Agreement that before an industry can be established in this country it must have the approval of the manufacturers in Great Britain. 
That is the reason why  Sir Geoffrey  Whiskard is now in Australia. Had it not been for the Ottawa Agreement, this industry would have been established in Australia before this. When the establishment of the tinned-plate industry in Australia was contemplated the  president  of a certain organization in Great Britain said that it was against the spirit of Ottawa, Under the terms of the Ottawa Agreement, any company which proposes to establish an industry in Australia must say to manufacturers in the United Kingdom, " Please, may we start an industry ". Moreover, the industry, when established, must show that it can compete on an economic basis with British manufacturers. It may be difficult to establish in Australia an industry which can compete on an economic basis with a similar industry in Great Britain, because in that country there is a greater population and more opportunity for mass production than in Australia. The Ottawa Agreement may at any time be invoked to do injury to the Commonwealth. The Government which entered into the Ottawa Agreement did something which was inimical to the Commonwealth. No benefits have come to Australia from it. When the bill gets into committee, I hope that  Senator A.  J. McLachlan will keep in mind the list of 97 wealthy people who own this country. 
Question put - 
That the word proposed to be left out  (Senator James Mclachlan's amendment)  he left out. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
In presenting this measure I desire to give honorable senators as much information as possible, not only as to its contents, but also about what may be termed its background. The first bill to provide for payment of war pensions was introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament in 1914, and a few words in historical retrospect may be of interest to honorable senators. At that time, of course, no one quite realized the extent to which it would become necessary for Australia to participate in that war, and it was then estimated that the financial provision necessary to cover the cost of pensions would bc £350,000 for that year. 
In 1920 the first Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act was introduced. Amongst other things, it had for its object the fusion of the administration of war pensions, then done by the Department of the Treasury, with the business of general repatriation of soldiers. For this purpose the bill of 1920 established a Repatriation Commission of three members, ft is of interest here, however, to say that (lie Government proposed to appoint the commission for five years, but a majority of the House of Representatives considered that term too lengthy, so the Government was compelled to accept an amendment limiting the term of the first commission to three years. The argument which apparently impressed a majority of the members was that 80 per cent, of the soldiers eligible for pensions were then receiving them, and that, as only a small number of men had still to return to Australia, three years was ample time in which to deal with and settle any claims they might have. It was suggested that once those cases had been completed, the commission's activities would cease, and all that would bc necessary would be to arrange for the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Department to continue payment of the pensions. I mention these matters simply to illustrate how little the Parliament of that day imagined that some 25 years after the termination of the war the Repatriation Commission would still be dealing with completely new schemes for pension by men who had never claimed before. The anticipated expenditure has, of course, been considerably increased. For the year ended the 30th J une, 1939, nearly £8,000,000 was spent in payment of war pensions to 249,293 pensioners. Of this number about 77,000 were incapacitated members of the forces, 144,000 were dependants of incapacitated members, and 27,571 were dependants of deceased members. 
Since the introduction of the original act. and up to the 31st December, 1939, the Repatriation Commission has expended on pensions, medical treatment, vocational training, employment, education and general repatriation benefits the 
Mim  of £186,352,922, whilst in addition, war gratuity payments involved £27,524,82S and . war service homes £29,755,314. Australia's total repatriation expenditure was thus £243,633,064 over a period of 25 years. 
It may also be of interest to honorable senators to have some comparison with figures available from our sister dominions as to the total enlistments, the number now receiving pensions, and the percentage of pensioners to enlistments in those dominions. Canada enlisted (528,964 men and at present 88,104 are receiving pensions, i.e. 12.77 per cent, of enlistments. New Zealand enlisted 105,629 men. Of that number, 15,793 are receiving pensions, or a percentage to enlistments of 14.9 per cent. In Australia 416,809 soldiers enlisted and the present number of soldier pensioners ii 77,315 &gt;or a percentage to enlistments of 18.5 per cent. These figures show that the Australian proportion of pensioners is 50 per cent, higher than that of Canada, and about 25 per cent, higher than that of New Zealand. Australia compares much more favorably when the number of pensions to dependants is considered, for neither Canada norNew Zealand pays pensions to dependants after the death of the soldier, unless death was directly due to war service. 
The present legislation providing for war pensions and repatriation benefits does credit indeed to those responsible for its introduction, for they evolved a scheme more liberal in its provisions and more widespread in its benefits than the proposals contained in the legislation of any other country. This fact  has  been acknowledged by returned soldier organisations themselves on many occasions. Such credit may well be shared by all parties in this Parliament, for the provision of reasonable compensation by way of pension and oilier benefits to disabled members of our forces has always been thewish of the people of Australia and its elected representatives of different political creeds. 
It is gratifying to know that Commonwealth repatriation legislation is more liberal than that of other countries. In addition to the percentage figures which I have already read, I would like to bring to the notice of honorable senators the following facts as conclusive evidence of the generosity of the Australian scheme :  - 
Australia is the only country that has adopted the scheme of education for soldiers' children. Up to the 30th June, 1939, about £2,040,000 has been expended in this direction. 
Australia is the only country which continues the payment of pensions to wives and children of soldier pensioners after the death of the soldier from causes other than war disabilities. 
Australia is the only country which pays a special rate of pension to men who are totally and permanently incapacitated, blind, or suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. There are 3,692 such pensions now being paid. 
Australia is the only country which pays a 100 per cent. pension to all persons diagnosed as suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis due to war service. 
Australia is the only country which provides for free medical treatment of all soldiers suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. 
The act is administered by a Repatriation Commission consisting of a  chairman  and two members. All of the members of the commission are themselves returned soldiers, and one of them is selected for appointment from a list of names submitted by organizations of returned soldiers. 
In each State a Deputy Commissioner for Repatriation  is  responsible to the commission for all administration within his State, and each Deputy Commissioner is, of course, a returned soldier, whilst the male staff of the commission throughout Australia is composed almost entirely of men who saw service in the last war. 
I have no desire to deal at length in this speech with the various activities of the commission, but it is proper to say that it has varied responsible and exacting duties to perforin. Apart altogether from the matter of determining claims for pension, the commission controls and administers throughout Australia numerous general hospitals, tubercular sanatoria, hostels, and artificial limb factories. Those institutions are conducted with a degree of efficiency which is most creditable to the commission, and particularly to those of its medical, nursing, artisan, orderly and domestic staff whose special care it is to administer and service such institutions. 
A little-known, but highly important phase of the work of the commission, and one which is of inestimable value to the individual and to the community is that known as the Soldiers' Children Education scheme. It applies to children of men who die, are blinded, or are totally and permanently incapacitated as the result of service. The child is assisted in the selection of a suitable vocation, and its education is continued through primary, secondary, technical or university stages, and monetary assistance is made available according to the circumstances of the case and the character of the training. Many thousands of children have been thus assisted, and in all the professions and trades are to be found men and women who owe their advancement to the opportunities afforded to them under this scheme.It is a phase of repatriation work which has been followed in Australia alone, but many other countries are showing evidence of a lively interest in the work. The commission readily admits that the success of this branch of its administration is almost wholly due to the splendid service given in an honorary capacity by the members of the education boards in each State. These members are experts in every phase of educational work and their knowledge and experience enable them skilfully and scientifically to guide the children to ultimate success. The Government is indeed grateful to these men and women Tor their splendid service, and feels that they may be relied upon to extend their activities to embrace eligible children of members of the forces of the present war. 
The sole purpose of this bill is to extend the principles of the present act to members of the forces serving in this war, except those provisions which relate to the payment of service pensions. The opportunity has also been taken to make some minor amendments to certain machinery sections of the act, and for the purpose of the present war a new definition of member of the forces, and a granting section having reference to that definition arc inserted. Shortly put, it; is proposed to pension all troops who embark for service overseas on one basis, and all those who serve entirely in Australia on another basis, but as most of the amendments are technical, they can be most suitably explained in committee. 
I should, however, explain that clause 10 is an amendment of section 45 w inserted by the House of Representatives. It recasts the first proviso to sub-section 2 of that section, referring to the onus of proof in cases where an appellant to an Entitlement Appeal Tribunal has made out a prima facie case in support of his claim. This clause has, however, been recast, and in committee I will move for its deletion and the insertion of one having a somewhat similar intent. 
A further proposed amendment to the bill should also be explained here. In the case of an unsuccessful appellant to an Entitlement Appeal Tribunal, who later submits further evidence, his claim is reconsidered by the commission under section 45  k7  in the light of the further evidence. If in the opinion of the commission the further evidence is not materia] to, and has not a substantial bearing on the appellant's claim, the appellant may submit the further evidence to the tribunal for consideration of the question of whether it is material to the claim. The act does not specifically provide that the appellant may attend the sitting of the tribunal at which the further evidence ' is considered, and the amendment is designed to provide, that his representative may attend at this stage of the proceedings. 
This bill is introduced at a time when the Empire is engaged in a war against the same aggressor as we were resisting when the 1914 act was introduced, and although the position of the Allied armies is grave, this Senate knows full well that victory must finally rest with Great Britain and its Allies, and I have no hesitation in declaring that the forces from this Commonwealth of Australia will play as great and important a part in the securing of that victory as they did in 1914-18. This bill is intended to provide for the care of our soldiers in the event of incapacity arising in the service of the country, and they may rely on Australia to see to it that they are protected by an act which will be as broad in principle and as generous in purpose as that which applied to their fathers of almost a quarter of a century ago. 
 We all profoundly regret the need for  this  bill. The sad and tragic circumstances in which the world finds itself to-day make a bill of this kind necessary. The Opposition will support the bill very gladly. We recognize that not only have we the duty to repeat in a measure of this kind the same policy as we initiated by legislation a quarter of a century ago, but also that it is right and creditable to liberalize the measure in certain directions in the light of the experience which has been gained over the last 25 years. I am very glad indeed that one important amendment was made  in the bill in the House of Representatives early to-day. The effect of clause 11 is that whereas previously an appellant himself had to make out his case and take the responsibility of establishing that he was entitled to relief under the act, the amendment inserted in this bill to-day throws the onus of proof upon the Repatriation Commission. Although it is now proposed to amend that improved clause, the alteration is merely of phraseology, and does not alter the character of the original amendment. It is not necessary to say anything further. We regret the need for the bill, but believe that it is the right thing and we shall support it fully. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 - 
Section forty-five  k  of the principal act is amended by inserting in paragraph (a) of subsection 1, after the word "operations", the words " , or is not directly attributable to his employment as a member ". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 45  k. -  (1.)  A personwho has claimed as a member of the forces, oras a dependant of a member of the forces, a pension under section  23  of this act, and whose claimhas been refused by thecommission on the ground - 

 that the incapacity or death of the memberhas not resulted from any occurence happening during the period duringwhich he was a member of the forces, or from his employmentin connexion with naval or millitary preparations or operations . . . 

Amendment (by  Senator Collett)  agreed to - 
That all the words after " amended " he left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following - 
by inserting in paragraph  (a)  of sub section 1, after the word " operations,", the words " or is not directly attributable to his employment as a member,"; and 
by inserting after sub-section (7.) the following sub-section :  - "(7a.) On any submission to an Appeal Tribunal under the proviso to the last preceding sub-section, an appellant may be represented at his own expense in support of his submission by any person other than a legal practitioner.". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 - 
Section forty-five  w  of the principal act is amended by omitting the first proviso to subsection (2.) and inserting in its stead the following proviso: - " Provided that if the appellant or a representative of the appellant makes out a prima facie case that the incapacity from which a member of the forces is suffering or from which that member has died was caused or aggravated by some occurrence which happened to him after the commencement of his war service, the onus of proof that such incapacity was not in fact caused or aggravated by war service shall lie upon the commission.". 

 Section proposed to be amended - 45 w. . . . 
. . . 

 Provided that .... 


 Provided that if the appellant or a representative of the appellant shall make out a prima facie case in support of his claim that the incapacity from,which he is suffering or from which he has died was caused or aggravated bywar service the onus of proof that such incapacity was notin fact so caused or aggravatedshallliewith the commission. 

I move - 
That all the words after " amended " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words, " by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section :  - (4.) For the purposes of sub-section (2.) of this section an appellant shall be deemed to have made out a prima facie case when he avers that the incapacity or death of the member of the forces resulted from an occurrence happening during the period he was a member of the forces or from his employment in connexion with naval or military preparations or operations or is directly attributable to his employment as a member of the forces." 
As I mentioned in my second-reading speech, this clause contains an amendment which was agreed to in the House of Representatives; but after consultation with the mover, and in order to secure the benefits contained, not only in the amendment but also in the original provision, the proposed new sub-section has been drafted in the form in which it has been moved. 
The proposed amendment is preferable to the one originally inserted in the bill. The principal difference between the two is that the original amendment read " provided that if the appellant, or representative of the appellant, makes out a prima facie case that the incapacity . . . " whereas the proposed amendment reads " For the purposes of sub-section 2 of this section an appellant shall be deemed to have made out a prima facie case when he answers that the incapacity . . .  " Under the first amendment the appellant would have to make out a prima facie case, but under the proposed amendment a prima facie case will be deemed to have been made out when an averment has been made. 
.- I have read the proposed amendment only hurriedly, and at the moment I am somewhat doubtful as to the difference between the two. The first amendment was somewhat dangerous, but I feel somewhat embarrassed in voting for or against an amendment, the effect of which I do not understand. If the Minister assures me that the position is fully safeguarded, I shall be satisfied ; but I do not think that the committee should be asked to pass important amendments hurriedly. 
I trust that the amendment moved by the Minister  (Senator Collett)  will be adopted, because I know of many men who have rendered service overseas, and, after returning to Australia, apparently were not suffering any disability as the result of active service; but later found that their military work had been detrimental to their health. After bringing their claims before the Repatriation Commission, they were informed that they must prove to the satisfaction of the commission that they were returned soldiers and that their disabilities were due to war service. Many of these men went to the limit in an endeavour to substantiate their claims, and sometimes death intervened before justice was done. I know of a case in which the Minister said that nothing could be done; the claimant died, and three days later an intimation was received that consideration could be given to his claim. Some of the men who are now serving abroad would have been placed in a similar position if this amendment had not been adopted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 16 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I had hoped that the Government would bring down a measure to repeal the Gold Tax Act passed last year. However, I am very glad indeed that my colleagues and I have been able to demonstrate to the Government the necessity to grant substantial relief to the gold-mining industry of Australia. The bill provides for the granting of assistance to a total amount of £340,000, including refunds to prospectors estimated to aggregate £90,000. Nevertheless, the bill does not go so far as I should like it to go in the provision of the relief which, in my opinion, is essential for the welfare of the industry. In Western Australia within the last two years, no fewer than 43 mines have been closed down. In addition, certain mines are to-day operating on a very low margin of profit and, as a matter of fact, some that are operated by companies as well as others that are privately controlled and owned, are showing a loss. There is every indication that, within the next year, other mines will be forced to close down as the result of being forced to mine unprofitable ore. It may be argued that these mines would not have been worked at all but for the greatly increased price of gold during the last seven years. I realize that. We know that to-day mines are operating which could not have been when the price of gold was lower than it is at the present time. It is hardly necessary to remind members of the' Senate that, during the regime of the last Labour Government, so serious was the position of the gold-mining industry that that Government introduced legislation to provide for the payment of a bounty on each ounce of gold won. Whilst the assistance proposed is not equal to what the industry deserves and demands, I recognize that at least some measure of relief is being given, and for that we are grateful to the Government. Quite a big concession is being given to my State. As the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  has pointed out, Western Australia is responsible for 75 per cent, of the total production of gold in Australia. It naturally follows that that State must receive quite a substantial proportion of the allocation made to the industry ; thus, out of the total of £150,000 it will receive £111,000. It, of course, is responsible for the production of 3 oz. out of every 4 oz. of gold won in Australia. In that fact lies the explanation of the larger grant to Western Australia. 
I am pleased that, as the Minister has pointed out, the provision in the act of 1939 relating to refunds to prospectors, is embodied in this measure. I support the second reading of the bill. 
I support the bill, and assure the Government that I regard it as a. good one, even though it does not give all that we sought, and may not be the best that could have been introduced. It has been pointed out that the gold tax at present produces £1,400,000 a year, of which, under this measure, £340,000 a year is to be returned to the industry. That is a very good gesture by the Government. 
The bill is divided into two parts, the first of which deals with the encouragement of gold mining. It is satisfactory to know that, of the £150,000 to be granted to the States for the encouragement of this great industry, Western Australia is to receive approximately 75 per cent., or £111,000. Of course that State contributes about three-quarters of the annual £1,400,000 derived from the gold tax. The Government has done the right tiring in the apportionment it has made, "and has acted on lines that I .suggest might be followed in connexion with other legislation that comes before us from time to time. 
The object of the second part of the bill is to provide relief from the gold tax. I am glad that the Government proposes to give a measure of relief to those mines which produce low-grade ore, some of which, I am sorry to say, are tottering to their doom - a tottering that has been hastened _by the imposition of the tax on gold. Members of all parties from Western Australia have asked repeatedly for what a considerable section of the people of that State desire, namely, the repeal of the gold tax on production and, if the industry is to be taxed, the substitution of a tax at the ordinary income tax rates applied to all other Australian industries. I cannot help regretting that gold, which is so important, so vital to Australia and the Empire at the present time, is the only industry of all our great primary and other industries which is taxed solely on the basis of production. That is opposed to all ordinary principles of taxation. 
The Minister would not compare luxuries, on which excise is generally imposed, with a commodity which may do more than any other commodity we can produce to help Australia and the Empire. I regret that gold is singled out for this unorthodox method of taxation. All of our other metals, the values of which have increased considerably owing to  Avar  conditions, are taxed on the  basis  of profit. It would have been very much better from the point of view of the industry and of tho Government if the production of gold had been encouraged by applying to the industry the ordinary income tax rates which apply to other industries. Two of the largest producers in Western Australia are in a perilous condition. I refer to the Wiluna mine, and the Hill 60 mine at Mount Magnet. The gravest anxiety is entertained regarding these mines. The town of Wiluna has a population of about 7,000 people, whilst 1,000 persons are directly dependent upon the mine, which experts estimate will completely peter out by March next. The company states that it can only regard its present operations as salvaging. Western Australian public opinion will not be satisfied until gold tax on production is entirely repealed. 
When we complain of over production of wheat and other products, it is well to remember that we cannot produce too much gold. In addition, gold is essential to the prosecution of the war. With it we can build up credit overseas, particularly dollar exchange, which we need so urgently at the present time. I am grateful for the measure of relief which the Government is granting under this measure. The bill indicates that the Government appreciates some of the difficulties confronting this great industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 

 Senator ARTHUR  (New South Wales ; [8.49].  -  Paragraph  h  defines a bona fide prospector as a person who satisfies a prescribed authority that "he is one of two or more persons who together have personally performed the whole or the major part of the work". What is the position under this measure of a man who produces gold by himself? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Refunds of gold tax to producers other than bona fide prospectors). 
 I ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  to explain why bona fide prospectors are excluded from the operations of this clause. It is true that each prospector is entitled to claim exemption from tax in respect of the first 25 oz. he produces, but he may produce 50 oz. in one year and still show a loss on his year's work. 
What is the meaning of " basic amount " as used in paragraph  a  of sub-clause 2? I also ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce to explain the meaning of paragraph  b  of the same sub-clause. 
"Basic amount" in relation to any gold means the amount paid by the bank for that gold less -  (a)  the amount of gold tax paid upon that gold, and (6) £1 10s. for each ounce of fine gold contained in that gold. Paragraph  b  relates to mines where other metals besides gold are produced, and provides that 40 per cent, of the total metals produced must be gold. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses .9. and 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 - 
A person shall not - 
Penalty: One thousand pounds or imprisonment for two years. 
I move - 
That thu words !! one thousand pounds or imprisonment for two years " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following words: - "if the offence is prosecuted summarily. One hundred pounds or imprisonment for six months: if the offence is prosecuted upon indictment, One thousand pounds or imprisonment for two yeaTS.". 
Under the clause as it stands, it would not be possible to prosecute summarily. The amendment is designed to ' enable that to be done. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 12 and 13 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported from committee with an amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
This is a short bill to amend the Gold Tax Collection Act 1939, by omitting the provisions relating to the refund of tax to bona fide prospectors, which have now been incorporated in the Gold Mining Encouragement Bill just passed by the Senate. This is purely a machinery measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I  move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The .purpose of this bill is to widen the authority of the Commonwealth to enter into an agreement with any State for the deduction of State taxation from the salaries wages or allowances of Commonwealth officers. The present Income Tax Collection Act enables the Commonwealth to enter into an agreement to make such tax deductions where the amount of the tax deduction is measured by those emoluments. In the present agreements with four States, the deduction is confined to State taxation which is in the nature of unemployment relief or emergency taxation and can be definitely calculated on the rate of salary or wage being paid at the time of the deduction. In the State of Western Australia, the financial emergency tax will cease on the 30th June next. Thereafter it is to be incorporated in the income tax. In order to facilitate collection at the source by instalments from allemployees, Government or private, rates of deduction of 6d. in the £1 on salaries and wages up to £8 a week and 9d. in the £1 over that amount are being imposed by that State. These deductions will enable the employee to build up a credit for application to his income tax liability which will be advised to him in the second half of the financial year by assessment based on his taxable income of the previous year. As the State legislation imposes a rate of deduction from salaries and wages, and not a rate of tax thereon, the Commonwealth has not the power under the existing Commonwealth legislation to continue even the present deductions after the 30th June next. In order to give to the State that measure of desirable assistance in the collection of tax from Commonwealth officers, and to afford to those officers the same relief as is extended to others in private or State employ, it has been deemed necessary to submit the present bill in order to extend the power of the Commonwealth to enter into an agreement for the deduction of taxation, not only where a rate of taxation at the source is imposed, hut also where a rate of deduction at the source to meet the tax is made. 
I have only just seen this bill for the first time, and have had no opportunity to study it. I was unable to gather from the Minister's speech why it had been introduced, who asked for it, or what advantage it will confer on either the taxpayer or the income tax authorities. I desire some clearer explanation of the measure than we have had. 

 . - in, reply - I am informed that the Government of "Western Australia asked for this legislation in order to enable it to make the deductions which the bill authorizes. 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Deduction from salaries, &amp;c., of officers). 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [9.5]. - I understand from the remarks of the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  that this bill provides especially for the deduction of tax imposed on the salaries of Commonwealth public servants who are residents of Western Australia. The State act provides that the tax shall be collected at the source. Provision has now been made by an amended State act to allow certain things to be done which were not allowed under the old act. Can the Assistant Minister say how often deductions will be made? 
 They will be made fortnightly. 
Will the tax still be collected at the source? 
I take it that it does not alter the arrangement under the old act for collecting the tax at the source. 
Will the amounts be deducted from the fortnightly salary or wages? 
I cannot understand the purpose of this bill and certainly cannot see that its operations are confined to Western Australia. 
The Assistant Minister said that it had been introduced at the request of the State. Now he says it will refer to all of the States. 
Does it apply to the federal income tax or to the State tax? 
I cannot understand why it is necessary for this Parliament to pass a measure in relation to State income tax. 
Does the bill apply to Commonwealth public servants or to State employees? 
That makes the position clearer, but I do not know whether Commonwealth officers in "Western Australia desire that this method of collecting tax from them shall be employed. 
It is to be hoped that they knew more about the bill before it was introduced than we know of it now. The bill provides that the Commonwealth may enter into an agreement with any State, but it does not say anything about the attitude of the people who have to pay the tax. This is the application of a method of extracting taxes from one section of the community which is not applied to other sections. A man in receipt of a salary or wage may be required to pay his tax fortnightly by having it deducted from his pay, whereas another person in receipt of a much higher income may pay his tax once a year, or not at all if he can evade payment. Honorable senators are aware that recently a well-known gentleman with an income far beyond that enjoyed by most public servants, has had his payments deferred over a long term of years. The Government appears to be keen to extract money from the salary-earning section of the community by deducting it from their salaries fortnightly, whereas it is prepared to allow people with large incomes to defer their payments, or even to evade payment altogether. This appears to be a class tax. 
I shall endeavour to explain what is intended. Previously the financial emergency tax in Western Australia was collected at the source. 
It is possible that Commonwealth public servants in that State desire to have their tax deducted from their pay fortnightly. 
The financial emergency tax of Western Australia has been merged in the income tax, and certain things are to be done which were not done under the financial emergency tax. This bill gives to the State Government the power to deduct the tax from the salaries or wages of Commonwealth public servants in Western Australia, the amount to be collected at the source. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Existing agreement to continue in force). 
It is an agreement which relates to the emergency tax hitherto in operation in Western Australia, but which after the 30th June will be incorporated in the State income tax. Although power cannot be given to the Government of Western Australia to deduct the tax from the wages and salaries of Commonwealth public servants, power can be given to the Commonwealth Government to make an agreement with the Government of Western Australia to do so. That is what is provided for in the bill. I understand that certain other agreements of a somewhat similar kind are in operation in relation to some other States. 
Will this clause have any relation to the collection ofwar-time profits tax amounting to £4,000,000 still owing by the Shell Oil Company? 
It seems to me that the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  is not in a position to give us any information on the details of the bill. It is surely not too much to expect a concise statement to be made concerning the intentions of the various measures submitted to us. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I gather from the remarks of the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  that it is necessary for us. to pass this bill in order that the Government may take steps to curb the rapacity of certain traders. It seems that whenever a war occurs, advantage is taken of it by certain individuals to increase commodity prices beyond reasonable levels. For this reason action has been taken in another country to enable the Government to assume complete control of all trading operations, and to retain it so long as the national emergency continues. Although we have not gone to that length in this country, certain steps have had to be taken, and this one among them, to ensure that the interests of the general public shall be protected. 
The action that is now being taken by the Government under its National Security powers to control for the period of the war many primary products, including rabbit skins, takes my mind back to somewhat similar circumstances at the time of the last war. It seems to me, however, that the trappers^ poisoners and shooters of rabbits are being treated differently from, say, the wool-growers. It is proposed that the rabbit skins shall be sold at public auction. If an export levy of 9d. per lb. be imposed, a restriction will undoubtedly be placed upon the operations of the trappers, poisoners and shooters. During the last war the price of rabbit skins rose to 17s. 6d. per lb. at one stage, but sufficient were obtainable for the export trade without the imposition of any restrictive regulations. The rabbittrappers did not, however, receive the benefit of the higher prices. Yet the wool-growers were able to take full advantage of the favorable position of their industry. The organization known as Bawra operated for a considerable period after the war in disposing of the accumulated stocks of wool to the great advantage of the wool-growers. I dissent from the view of the Assistant Minister for Commerce that an increased quantity of rabbit skins will be put on the market this year. 
 Increased quantities are already being marketed. 
It appears to me that the purpose of this bill is to restrict the operations of rabbit-trappers and rabbitpoisoners. In the summer the fur on the rabbits is thin and the skins are light, with the result that the price is low. In the winter months the fur is thicker, the skins are heavier, and, usually, the prices obtainable are better. This proposal to fix the price of rabbit skins will, in my opinion, inflict hardships on the trappers, poisoners and shooters of rabbits, and at the same time, confer an advantage on those who buy the skins for manufacturing purposes. It has been said that the supply of rabbit skins this year is abundant, and that it is necessary to restrict the output, but the manager of the Akubra hat factory in Sydney has informed me that it has even been necessary to import rabbit skins to meet the demands of the market. 
I have been told that the supply has fallen from 80 tons to  50  tons a week. The effect of this measure will be to deny to rabbit trappers the results to which they are entitled. At one time I was engaged in the work of procuring rabbit skins, and I have obtained as much as 7s. 6d. per lb. for them. Thousands of people in New SouthWales have secured a good living by this means. If the price of skins were seriously reduced, many people would be prosecuted for failure to destroy the rabbits on their land, because they would refuse to trap or poison them. 
. -inreply  - I can disabuse the minds of honorable senators opposite on the points mentioned by them. It is not proposed to limit the price of rabbit skins sold at auction, except to the extent to which the export tax would be imposed. That tax would not reduce the price as suggested. The bill provides that an export charge not exceeding 9d. per lb. may be made. As the object of this scheme is to equalize the price to the manufacturer, and as the Australian manufacturer uses only about 15 per cent. of the total quantity of rabbit skins annuallyproduced in this country, it is not expected that the tax will be anything like 9d. per lb. In view of the present prices ruling in the open market, it is anticipated that a tax of about 3d. per lb. will be sufficient. Only if the price of skins soared to an extraordinarily high level would the tax reach 9d. per lb. At the present time, the average price of skins at auction is about 60 per cent. higher than that ruling last year, and this has not discouraged trapping throughout Australia. Despite what has been said by Senators Amour and Arthur, larger quantities of skins are being placed on the market this year than last year. Last week the offerings in Sydney totalled about 80 tons, as against about. 50 tons at the corresponding period of last year. It willbe recognized that, whilst a small contribution will he made by this measure towards the maintenance of a relatively low price for skins for Australian use, the contribution will not be in excess of, probably, 3d. per lb. on the whole of the Australian output. It was mentioned by  Senator Arthur  that Australian manufacturers are importing rabbit skins, but this importation is confined to skins of a particular type not produced in this country. This bill will not effect in any way the manufacturers who use those skins. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the measure is to appropriate from the Consolidated Revenue Fund such amounts as are from time to time received by the Commonwealth in respect of a charge to be imposed on the export of rabbit skins. The bill is complementary to the Rabbit Skins Export Charges Bill, and makes provision for the appointment of an Australian rabbit skins board, and for the payment to that board of amounts so appropriated for the purpose of administering the marketing scheme which I have already outlined to honorable senators in my second-reading speech on the immediately preceding bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Australian Rabbit Skins Board). 
The clause provides that one of the members of the board shall be a representative of original suppliers of rabbit  skins. As the men who procure rabbit skins have no industrial organization, except through the Australian Workers Union, and are not covered by an award, how is it proposed to select their representative on the board, and what fees will he receive for attending board meetings? 
As  Senator Arthur  has remarked, rabbiters have no organization which the Government could approach to enable a representative to be selected for this board ; so it is suggested that the Australian Workers Union should nominate a representative of the rabbiters.  The fees to be paid will be on a scale similar to that of the allowances made to the members of boards operating similar schemes. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 8 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. . 
Earlier to-day we heard a speech by a supporter of the Government who referred to what seemed to be a most impressive letter. Honorable senators were beginning to wonder who was the brilliant author of the epistle when their hopes were dashed; the honorable senator addressing the Senate informed us that the letter had, in fact, never been written. I had prepared a speech to deliver on this occasion but I am afraid that, in the circumstances, it will not be delivered. Honorable senators are permitted, during the consideration of a measure of this kind, to discuss many things which may have no direct application to the bill. I had many matters which I intended to mention but, at this late hour, 
I do not feel disposed to speak at length. I shall content myself, therefore, by saying that we on this side of the chamber are opposed to the Government's method of rushing financial measures through the Senate shortly before Parliament goes into recess. In view of the fact that the Parliament will re-assemble a few weeks hence, I shall wait until then to say the things which I had intended to say to-night. But I ask the Leader of the Senate to inform the Prime Minister that the Opposition is weary of the congestion of business which occurs at times like this, and is dissatisfied with the Government's system of presenting financial proposals to the Senate. The whole of the Government's financial legislation is brought forward piecemeal. First, we discussed the Treasurer's financial statement. Then came nine bills relating to sales taxation and later still other financial proposals were brought before the chamber. Finally, this Supply Bill is introduced. Most honorable senators discussed the matters they had in mind when the financial statement was before this chamber and there is no occasion for them to repeat previous statements. But the Opposition contends that all financial measures should be brought forward in proper sequence, or in one group, as was the practice in years gone by. This would eliminate much needless repetition and prevent the abrupt curtailment of discussions at the end of a series of parliamentary sittings. Honorable senators may take as read the speech which I had intended to make on this "measure. Unless I have occasion to discuss any item in the committee stage, I shall not speak further on this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is to secure the necessary appropriation of moneys to carry on the services of the Government until the animal appropriation act for 1940-41 is approved by Parliament. The bill makes provision for the expenditure of an  amount of £13,709,200 for ordinary services for the period of the first three months of the financial year 1940-41. 
The provision may be summarized under the following heads: - 

<graphic href="163332194005315_64_3.jpg"></graphic>

Provision is made in this bill only for the amount which is estimated to be sufficient to carry on the essential services on the basis of the appropriations passed by the Parliament for the present year, 1939-40. The items making up this total represent approximately one-quarter of those appropriations, except in a few cases where expenditure is heavier in the early months of the financial year than later. An exception is, however, made in respect of defence and war services, where the amount included represents the estimated actual charge to revenue appropriations during the first three months of the year. In addition to this defence vote, there will, of course, be other defence expenditure which will be covered by the loan appropriation. The usual provisions are made in the bill for " Refunds of Revenue " and " Advance to the Treasurer ", the amounts being £450,000 and £4,000,000 respectively. The latter amount is mainly required to carry on uncompleted works which will be in progress at the 30th June, and also to cover unforeseen and miscellaneous expenditure. It will also temporarily finance the special grants to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania on the same basis as was approved by Parliament for the present financial year, until a bill can be submitted after receipt of the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
It is possible also that unforeseen war charges not covered by an appropriation may arise and these will be met from Treasurer's Advance. Except in the case of defence and war services, no provision is made in the bill for any new expenditure or any departure from existing policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Supplementary Estimates for the year ended the 30th June, 1939, which have been tabled, cover the items of expenditure for which no specific parliamentary approval has been given, but which were met temporarily out of provision for Treasurer's Advance pending submission to Parliament in the form of these Estimates. As honorable senators are aware, it is customary to include each year in the Estimates in chief a vote under the heading " Advance to Treasurer ". The provision of £2,500,000 for this purpose in 193S-39 enabled the Treasurer to make advances to the various departments in order to meet those urgent and essential services which could not be foreseen and which, therefore, were not included in the Estimates in chief. Particulars of this unforeseen expenditure- in the form of Supplementary Estimates are now submitted for covering appropriation by Parliament. As copies of these Estimates are being circulated among honorable senators, I do not propose at this stage to refer to the items in detail. Of the amount of £2,500,000 voted for Treasurer's Advance in 1938-39, £1,193,131 was expended on ordinary departmental services and war services, 1914-18, payable from revenue, whilst £91,-368  Avas  used for additions,  new works and buildings, for which lastmentioned sum Supplementary Estimates will shortly be submitted separately. Although in this bill Parliament is being asked to appropriate £1,193,131, the expenditure for the year was actually £18,314 less than the total provision for ordinary services in the main Estimates and the additional .Estimates for defence purposes introduced in December, 1938. This is because, in many instances, this new expenditure was made contingent on savings of similar amounts in other items. In other votes, straight-out savings were possible. 
Honorable senators will remember that in December, 1938, an additional appropriation of £1,320,950 was granted for defence expenditure in 1938-39. It is usual, when moneys are required to be appropriated for expenditure on salary and pay votes, to submit for parliamentary approval full details in the form of a schedule to the bill; but, in this case, the information was not available to enable this to be done. Out of the appropriation already referred to, £173,320 was expended on defence salaries and pay. Although no additional appropriation is now required, the opportunity has been taken to include on pages 37 to 42 of these Supplementary Estimates a schedule of salaries for the covering approval of Parliament. 
Full details of the expenditure which is now submitted for approval have already been furnished to Parliament in the Estimates and budget papers for 1939-40. The Estimates compare the amount voted for 1939-40 with the actual expenditure for 1938-39, whilst the budget papers also record the expenditure. Details were included in the Treasurer's finance statement for 1938-39, which was tabled during the last session for the information of honorable senators. 
In order that honorable senators may be assured that these Estimates are based upon properly-audited accounts, it is the practice to await the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the year under review. The Treasurer's finance statement, which contains full particulars of these Supplementary Estimates, was forwarded to the AuditorGeneral on the 29th September, 1939, and the Auditor-General's report was laid on the table of the Senate on the 6th December, 1939. This did not leave sufficient time for the introduction of this measure in the last session of Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
When the Supplementary Estimates for ordinary services were presented, honorable senators were informed of the reason for, and the procedure adopted with, bills of this character. 
This measure provides for au appropriation of £91,36S for expenditure under additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c, which has been met from the vote " Advance to the Treasurer " during the year 1938-39. 
Although the amount mentioned in the bill is £91,368, that sum does not represent an amount expended on works and buildings in excess of the original estimates. Actually, the total expenditure of £6,565,268 was £476,732 less than the sum of £7,042,000 appropriated for this purpose. Parliament is therefore asked to approve of new works expenditure which was more than counterbalanced by savings on other works. The amount included in the hill is considerably less than the provision for works in the Supplementary Estimates in each of the last three years. Business undertakings required more than £54,000, of which telegraph and miscellaneous works for the post office absorbed over £36,000. I do not propose to refer in detail to all of the items in the schedule. . 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Coordination,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the question of issuing a badge to men in reserved occupations, as an indication that their services are not available for either our home defence army or the Australian Imperial Force? 
Will the Government consider the issue of a badge to all who volunteer for service overseas with the Australian Imperial Force, and are rejected for various reasons? 
SenatorFoll. - The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied the following answer: - 
A committee was appointed some time ago to report on the issue of badges for various classes of individuals including those referred to in the question. The report has been completed, and is at present receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Has any scheme been prepared to utilize, for home defence, the services of thousands of reserve (i.e. civilian) rifle club men? 
Is it not a fact that all of these men, on joining, were sworn in under the Defence Act, and that all of them possess either the long or short . 303 service rifle, in the use of which they are highly skilled? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
The plans for mobilization provide for members of reserve rifle clubs being incorporated in units of the military forces on mobilization. For this purpose, all reserve rifle clubs have been allotted to military units. 
All members of rifle clubs are sworn in. About two-thirds of them are in possession of their own rifles. The degree of skill of rifle clubs members varies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What action, if any, has the Government taken to utilize the workshops of Western Australia for the manufacture of munitions and other war material? 
Is it a fact that in Western Australia skilled artisans are unemployed? 
Is it a fact also that skilled artisans are engaged in employment other than skilled work ? 
Does the Minister say that there is a shortage of skilled artisans for the manufacture of war munitions? 
Is it a fact that many skilled artisans are joining the Australian Imperial Force? 
What number of skilled artisans were registered under the national register in Western Australia? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has furnished the following replies: - 
Manufacturers in Western Australia have been furnished from time to time with particulars of defence requirements, and as a result, certain orders have been placed with Western Australian manufacturers. At my direction, the  chairman  of the Contracts Board of my department visited Perth recently, and, as a result of his conferences with the Western Australian Chamber of Manufactures, individual manufacturers, andthe manager of the Western Australian Government Railway Workshops, it is hoped that industries in Western Australia will be able,in future, to undertake a greater share of defence work than they have in the past. 2 and3. Information on these matters is not available in the Department of Supply and Development, but the desired particulars might be obtainable from the Department of Labour and Industry of the Western Australian Government. 
Yes, for particular categories of munitions in certain localities. As far as Western Australia is concerned no shortage of skilled labour has been brought to the notice of my department. 
Yes. The enlistment of skilled artisans in the Australian Imperial Force is necessary as many are required in technical units. A percentage is also required in non-technical units. They are obtained mostly from personnel who have been trained in civil industries during peace. 
Machine tabulations of skilled artisans are not yet completed for all States. Those for Western Australia are now in course of compilation but will not be available for a further week or two. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What is the reason for transferring to another building the machinery and equipment from the. £63,000 building erected for the production of the Bren machine gun at the Small Arms Factory, Lithgow? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: - 
Re-arrangements of the factory layout have been necessary to ensure the most efficient operations over the whole small arms programme. The expanded programme has required such re-adjustments. 
In asking you, 
Mr.President, to suspend the sitting until 8 o'clock, I intimate that the Government proposes, in this period of the session, to deal with only two measures, namely, an amendment of the National Security Act, and a Loan Appropriation Bill. It is hoped that the first bill will be passed by the House of Representatives this afternoon in time to be dealt with by the Senate at 8 o'clock. 

 Sitting suspended from3.1 to 8 p.m. 

I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I point out to honorable senators that the measure for which we are waiting will not be passed in the House of Repre sentatives until a very late hour this evening. Honorable senators will understand that under the Standing Orders the Senate will meet at 11 o'clock to-morrow morning. 
SenatorKEANE (Victoria) [8.1].- I wish to bring under the notice of the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  the inadequacy of the arrangements made for the transport of members of Parliament this morning from the Canberra railway station. One bus was provided for over 40 members, each of whom had considerable luggage. At the same time, I noticed twelve limousines standing by at the station. I do not know for whom they were provided. Following a similar occurrence about eight or ten weeks ago, I complained to the House Committee, of which I am a member. No excuse exists for such a condition of affairs. The officer who attends to the transport of members should ascertain beforehand how many members will be arriving in Canberra, and arrange for any extra buses which might be required. Members of Parliament do not enjoy very many privileges, but they are at least entitled to expect a fairly comfortable seat in a bus on their way from the station at Canberra. The one bus employed on this job this morning was dangerously overloaded. In fact, the honorable member for Adelaide  (Mr. Stacey),  who, I should think, would weigh about 18 stone, was obliged to travel on the running board. 
I have a suggestion to make to the Government with regard to the rationing of petrol. In a country town the other day I was approached by a gentleman who discussed with me the scheme of petrol rationing which operated during the last war in the United States of America, where he was then residing. This scheme, which he said had proved most successful, would, I believe, cause very much less inconvenience than the proposal which the Government now has under consideration for the rationing of petrol on a basis of so many gallons for each car according to its horse-power. In the United States of America one day of the week was known as a "no-car day". We could set apart one, or two, or even three days, each week as " no-car days". Medical doctors, whose cars would be distinguished by the usual badge of a snake on a stick and clergymen, whose cars would carry a white cross on a dark background, would be exempt from these restrictions. Under the American scheme, no compulsion was exerted, but the effect of it was that private persons who used their cars on a "no-car day" aroused so much public resentment that they were almost hooted for refusing to co-operate in the national effort to conserve petrol. In addition, a farmer or other resident in a remote area, who drove his car to town on a " no-car day " was obliged to report immediately to the local police and to give a valid reason for using his car on such a day. My informant told me that the scheme was a wonderful success, and that as the result of it the petrol saved throughout the United States of America would have been sufficient to meet the weekly fuel requirements of the British navy. That is how he put it. It appears to me that such a scheme would cause much less inconvenience than the proposal which, according to newspaper reports, the Government has now under consideration. In addition, it would cause less dislocation and less unemployment in the garage business and the motor car industry generally. The Government would be well advised to inquire into this matter in order to see what really was done in the United States of America during the last war in order to conserve petrol, and, should the American scheme be found to be better than the proposal now under consideration, it should be adopted. 
In view of the grave urgency of the measure which we shall consider to-morrow I suggest that the Senate should assemble not later than 9.30 a.m. 
I take this opportunity to bring under the notice of the Government certain facts in relation to the Government Printing Office in Canberra. When Parliament is sitting the staff of the Government Printer is not only fully worked, but also overworked. Honorable senators will agree that these employees give highly efficient service. I have in my hand an application form for use by men desirous of joining the Royal Australian Air Force. It is a stereotyped form, similar to thousands which are printed each year in relation to Government activities. Yet I find on it the imprint - " T. Rider, Government Printer, Melbourne ". I have repeatedly protested against the continuance of this policy of sabotaging the National Capital. It is time that we put a stop to it. Not the slightest excuse exists for it. When we know that a large number of Government Printing Office employees in Canberra are unemployed when Parliament is in recess we should not have our printing done in Melbourne. If this were an isolated case it could probably be excused. However, it is not an isolated case. I have repeatedly raised matters of this kind in this chamber. When shall we put a stop to this practice? I also protest against the holding of Cabinet meetings, and the receiving of deputations by Ministers, in Melbourne. If we hope to justify Canberra - and I believe that the building of this city is one of the finest experiments yet undertaken by any nation - all of the Government's activities should be carried on in the National Capital. It is ridiculous to say that Ministers cannot remain here and at the same time confer with officers who are stationed in Melbourne. Why cannot such officers be brought to Canberra when Ministers wish to confer with them? Such an arrangement would be no more expensive than the travelling of Ministers  to Melbourne each week-end, taking with them an army of under-secretaries, typists and secretaries. Because of the seriousness of the international situation the Opposition is loath to raise points which have no immediate relation to the greatest crisis with which we have yet been confronted, but I feel obliged to raise a matter of this kind. Later on perhaps I shall have something more to say about the necessity for Ministers to carry out their ministerial activities in Canberra. The Government is aware of our opposition to the closing of Parliament, although probably it will be better able to appreciate our views on this subject to-morrow, when we are discussing the important measure for which we are now waiting. We shall then renew our protests on this matter. All the talk about Ministers not being able to do their jobs properly if they are obliged to attend to parliamentary matters, or must confer with officers situated in Melbourne or Sydney, is unconvincing. Such officers should be obliged to come to Canberra and do their job here, just as it is the duty of Ministers to do their job in Canberra. The matter which I have just raised is only one of many of its kind. 
I accept the Minister's compromise. 
. I am pleased to hear that the Senate will meet to-morrow an hour earlier than is usual on a Friday. Like other honorable senators, I realize that the measure which will come before us to-morrow is of great importance, and, particularly in view of the fact that it has been "guillotined" in the House of Representatives and, in consequence, debates in that chamber will be considerably curtailed, the extra hour to be afforded to us will be most welcome. 
I protest against the manner in which a. question asked by me from the Minister representing the Minister for the Army has been answered. Honorable senators will remember that on the 22nd April, and later on the 14th May, I asked the 
Minister if he would supply to me £ statement of the cost to the Com monwealth of land and building: that had been vacated by the military authorities or which the military authorities proposed to vacate. Sub sequently representations were madeto me that the cost of obtaining such information in respect of the States would be considerable and would take some time to collect. Consequently, I compromised and informed the Minister that I would be satisfied if I were given this information in respect of Victoria. On the 7th June, I received the following letter from the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  : - 
Unfortunately, that is not the position in this case. My investigation of the matter shows that the contract merely provides that white labour must be employed, no other reference being made to industrial conditions. According to my information, the socalled company which has obtained the contract is not, in fact, a company at all. I have received the following letter from  Mr. O.  McKenna, secretary to the Motor Transport and Chauffeurs Association of Australia : - 
Yes. A strong appeal has been made by the Prime Minister to the trade unions of Australia to render every possible assistance to the Government in the great crisis through which the Empire is passing. 
Because they are not drivers within the meaning of the award. The person who has taken tho contract lets the work out at a certain rate, and whatever profit he makes is gained at the expense of the drivers who undertake the work. He is under no liability at all. 
A contract of this nature should never have been entered into by the Government. These owner-drivers are not protected by insurance against accidents. If a member of this Parliament, or a member of the Commonwealth Public Service, met with a serious accident while travelling in one of these motor vehicles, what protection would the Government have? I understand that an effort is being made to effect accident insurance, and, that each owner will need to take out an insurance policy. 
The Crown Law authorities in Victoria have informed me that, although insurance against accidents is compulsory in respect of taxi-cabs in Melbourne, in the case of the cars used under this contract such insurance is not compulsory. Even if the seven owner-drivers concerned in this contract took out accident insurance policies, it might be necessary on some occasions for more than seven motor cars to be employed. In the event of an additional car being required at short notice for Commonwealth purposes in Melbourne, a vehicle not covered by insurance might be called into service. If the Government dealt with a reputable firm, which was adequately covered by insurance, members of the public service would beprotected, and the Government would not run the risk of being involved in large claims for damages. The whole matter should be thoroughly investigated. At a time when a strong appeal is being made to the industrial movement to render every possible assistance to the Government, a contract involving a violation of award rates and conditions should not be entertained. This matter is regarded in trade union circles as being so serious that it is to be discussed by the Melbourne Trades and Labour Council. 
I bring under the notice of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  the drastic action taken in New South Wales in regard to the Truth Newspaper Company Limited, which recently sought a licence to publish an afternoon journal to be known as the  Mirror.  Mr. Ezra  Norton, the owner of the company, received a letter intimating that a licence would be granted to enable this newspaper to appear on the streets of Sydney. Of course, it would have been in competition with the Sydney  Sun.  It is understood that  Sir Hugh  Denison and  Sir Graham  Waddell came to Canberra and brought pressure to bear upon the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and other members of the Government, as a result of which the promised licence to import newsprint for the new journal was withdrawn. The sad feature is that  Mr. Norton  induced a number of people to accept positions on the staff of the proposed new journal, and entered into contracts with some of them for two years and more.  Mr. Norton  now finds himself unable to fulfill those contracts; he has had to tell the men to whom he has offered employment - most of them are members of the Australian Journalists Association - that there are no jobs for them. It is considered by that association, by the printing trade union, and by a very large majority of the people of New South Wales that the Government should not have suppressed the new paper. It is thought that the vast population of New South Wales warrants the publication of two evening papers in its capital city, I do not know whether or not action to suppress the journal was taken because criticism of the Government was feared. Very few papers do criticize the Government to-day. In fact, the Government refuses to allow the publication of criticism. I believe that the  Mirror  would have supported the Government, because, under the threat of censorship, it, like most other newspapers, would not have the temerity to oppose it. I urge the Government to withdraw its opposition to the establishment of the new paper, and grant the requisite licence. If that were done the people to whom employment has been offered would then be given their jobs, the people of New South Wales would have a new evening paper, and public opinion would not be so much under the influence of the existing evening journal. 
.- The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has asked that the Senate should meet at 9.30 a.m. to-morrow in order to discuss the very important business which is now before the House of Representatives, and the Leader of the Government  (Senator McLeay)  has compromised by agreeing to 10 a.m. as the hour of meeting. In that arrangement I concur. The Leader of the Opposition has on many occasions reprimanded the powers that be for not keeping Parliament in session longer than is now the practice, and to some extent I support his protests. So long as there is business worthy of discussion, Parliament should be kept in session. 
To-night we have been treated to an oration by an honorable senator from Victoria with regard to industrial trouble among taxi drivers - a matter which he no doubt deemed to be important - and we have listened to another honorable Benator from New South Wales make representations in regard to the refusal of a licence for a proposed new newspaper. 
In normal times, no doubt, the suppression of a newspaper would be a matter of great importance; but it sinks into insignificance in a period such as the one through which we are now passing. 
I wish to direct attention, however, to happenings on the 31st May, at the close of the first period of this session. We were called upon to deal expeditiously with a large number of important measures, one of which was a supply bill for £13,700,000. I ask honorable senators to-night how many of them were in their places in this chamber on the Friday night when the Senate passed that measure? Surely a measure of such importance to this country deserved some attention and consideration. Why do honorable senators prate about keeping Parliament in session, if they are not prepared to give reasonable attention to important measures when we do meet? 
The honorable senator has no right to say that; it is not true. The measure to which I have referred came before the Senate in the ordinary way. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.It is not my intention to draw invidious distinctions between one party and another. Again I ask, of what use is it to come here and prate about Parliament not being kept in session, when so little interest is shown in important measures that are submitted to us? 
The Government had nothing to do with the matter to which I refer. The Government representatives were here in their places, and they were prepared to keep the Senate in session on Friday nightand even on Saturday if honorable senators wished to discuss proposed legislation. Nobody on this side ran away while there was business to be done. 
I have something to say with regard to the complaint voiced by  Senator James  McLachlan about honorable senators not being in their places when certain legislation was passed in the dying hours of the first period of this session. I draw attention to the fact that on the Thursday evening, I was speaking on the financial statement when the sitting was suspended for dinner. Immediately on resuming, I was asked by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  to obtain leave to continue my speech at a later hour. I did so. Government business was then introduced, and was continued until after 10 o'clock on the Friday night. I was not given an opportunity to resume my speech. 
I was here. I find that in  Hansard  it is recorded that I asked for leave to continue before the suspension of the sitting for the dinner adjournment, and not after it. Have things come to such a stage that we cannot rely upon  Hansard  to be a true- record of what takes place in this chamber? Incidentally, the proof of my speech reached me two days after it should have beep available. In future, I shall submit to an interruption of my speech only if I am forced to do so by a vote of this chamber. 
I should like to direct attention also to the manner in which some questions asked by honorable senators are answered. Recently, I asked the following question of the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: - 
Will the Minister supply the Senate with the names of the person or persons, or company or companies, who have been granted permission to raise capital by public subscription for the search for oil, or for scoutboring in Victoria, stating the respective amounts and the dates permission was granted. 

 Senator McBride gave the following reply : ; 
The particulars which are submitted to the Treasury in connexion with applications to issue capita] are confidential. The Treasurer is, therefore, unable to supply the details asked for. 1 protest against the reading into a question of something which it does not contain. As is clearly shown in the question, I simply asked for " the names of the person or persons, or company or companies, who had been granted permission to raise capital by public subscription for the search for oil, or for scout boring in Victoria ". 
The names are confidential ? 
Then that must be under the provisions of some regulation of which I do not know. 
I shall read to honorable senators a letter which I intended to bring under the notice of this chamber had I been permitted to continue my speech on the 30th May. In connexion with the search for oil in Australia at present, there is a search for something besides oil. Recently a friend of mine, a shorthand writer, was standing at the corner of Castlereagh-street and Martin-place, Sydney, when a man standing beside him opened a letter and commenced to read it. My friend took some notes from the letter, and he saw the name Steinbuchel - that gentleman who was so ignobly refused the right to stay in this country. Honorable senators know well my connexion with this matter, and realize that my association with it will stand the light of day. 
My friend stood alongside the man while he was reading the letter. His shorthand notes ofthe contents of the letter read as follows :  - 
We must use all influence possible to pre vent operations. I understand Max Stein buchel has made application to enter New Zealand, so if he goes it may be to our advantage. There is one of the representativesI would like to get drunk. I will watch opera tions and report to you anything of interest but for the present I would advisesilence. 
S. R. 
Possibly some honorable senators may recognize these initials. After further inquiries and investigations, the person reading the letter was found and followed to his office. He was located at Room 3 Fourth Floor, Twyford House, 17 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and the names over the door were - 
B. Brooksbank.Gladeswood Gardens Edgecl iff, Phone FM 1932. 
Miss Edith Joseph, typist, B 4038. 
Miss Edith Joseph, 70 OceanStreet, Wool lahra, FM 1119. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not entitled to use the word " sinister ". 
I shall withdraw the word if it is unparliamentary; but it seemed to me that there was something behind the idea which the Prime Minister outlined. 
The conscription of labour and of unionists generally. The Government has all the power it requires under the supply and development legislation passed through this chamber some time ago, and there is no need whatever for it to introduce the bill which is now being discussed in the House of Representatives. 
If I am again out of order I shall discuss that measure when it is before the Senate. 
As it appears to be the policy of this Government to keep Parliament in recess as long as possible, I shall take this opportunity to bring under the notice of Ministers several matters which are of importance to the people. The responsibility to keep Parliament in session rests not upon the Opposition. 
If I did not accept any more responsibility than the honorable senator, there would be no need for me to occupy a seat in this Parliament. We do not shirk our responsibilities. The Opposition can accept responsibility. 
We are not responsible for the government of this country. If the honorable senator is referring to a national government, we have stated our position very clearly in that respect 
If the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  would pay as much attention to the affairs of this country as he devotes to the alleged need for a national government, he would be rendering a greater service to the community.  Senator James  McLachlan referred to the vacant seats on this side of the chamber on the night of the 31st May. I can assure the honorable senator thatthe members of the Opposition will always be in their places when there is business to transact, despite the long distances which some of them have to travel in order to attend the sittings of this Parliament. Within a day or two the Senate will again be going into recess, and we shall be expected to dispose of, within a few hours, the most important legislation that has ever been brought before this Parliament. During the last day on which the Senate sat, more bills were passed in this chamber than during the whole of the session. Such unnecessary haste prevents honorable senators from devoting their time to the legislation which the Government introduces.  Senator James  McLachlan should remember that some honorable senators have to travel 2,000 miles toreach Canberra, and owing to transport difficulties, some have been prevented from attending to-day. The bill which the Senate will shortly be asked to debate - the Prime Minister said that it was the most important ever introduced into this Parliament - has been " guillotined " in the House of Representatives, and doubtless a time limit will be imposed upon the measure in this chamber. The Opposition believes that Parliament should remain in session throughout the present crisis. 
If the Minister does not do more for the good of Australia than he has done during the last ten months, I dread to think of what will happen tothe country. Honorable senators opposite think that the formation of a national government would be a way in which to hide the deficiencies of this negative Government. 
Can the Assistant Minister for Commerce say whether additional WOOappraisement centres are likely to be appointed in Western Australia) The Government promised to give the matter further consideration, and I trust that an early pronouncement on the subject will be made. 
Leave granted; motion withdrawn. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Air - 
Is the Minister aware that at the Peru Technical College extensive facilities exist for the training of young men in all branches of aeronautics and aviation) 
To what extent is the Government making use. of these facilities  T 
If the Government is not at present making use of the said facilities can the Minister indicate whether rt is intended to do so in the future ? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers : - 
No, but facilities for the technical training of 100 men are expected to be available shortly. In the meantime arrangements have been made for aa many airmen to attend as the college is ready to take. 2 and 3. See answer to question 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in selling goods and materials, including motor vehicles, 'to the Defence Department, suppliers have sought to receive prices in excess of normal prices? 
If so, what firms have done this 7 
What are the details! 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer.' - 
In acquiring commodities for use in connexion with the Government's war effort, tha utmost care is exercised in securing them at the best possible prices. In this connexion the Government has had the assistance of the highly competent services of the Board of 
Business Administration and experienced officers associated with the Central Contract Board and the district boards in the respective States. As a result of the watchfulness of these bodies, we have been able to secure improved purchasing conditions in respect of 
Rome of the items involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister say whether in formulating the proposed alterations to the Broadcasting Bill, a report was obtained from the Postmaster-General's technical officers on the effects of the proposed changes; if so, will he make it available for perusal? 
Was any expert technical advice obtained directly or indirectly from any electrical source prior to the submission of the amendments to the bill; if so, who were the experts? 
Have the views of the PostmasterGeneral's administrative officers been obtained on the proposed changes ; if so, what are they 1 
Was any report or communication obtained from  Sir Harry  Brown before his retirement; if so, will the Government make it available to Parliament? 
Has the present Director-General had an opportunity to examine the proposals; if so, will the Government obtain a report from him ? 
Will the Government consider appointing a commission or technical board of inquiry to consider the questions involved and submit a full report to Parliament? 
Has the Government any assurance that the mechanical and technical staff it proposes to transfer will accept such transfer; and will their rights under the Public Service Act be safeguarded; if so, what section of the act covers them? 
If this bill be passed, what control will be exercised over the purchase of technical equipment by the commission? Will it be obliged to obtain this through open competition? 
The answer is not yet at hand. I have discussed the matter with the Postmaster-General, and I now suggest to the honorable senator that I make an appointment for him with the Postmaster-General. The honorable senator may then discuss the matter with the Minister, and in that way the information desired will be obtained. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators will, I think, appreciate the circumstances in which this bill is now before us. It is based on the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1940 of Great Britain, which was passed on. the 22nd May. In the passage of the bill, the proceedings in both Houses of the British Parliament occupied less than three hours. 
The principal provision of this bill will enable the Governor-General to make regulations which will require persons to place themselves, their services and their property at the disposal of the Commonwealth, as appear to him to be necessary or expedient for securing the public safety, the defence of the Commonwealth and its Territories, or the efficient prosecution of any war in which  His  Majesty is, or may be, engaged. 
At no time in our whole history has it been found necessary .to pass such a measure. The powers conferred on the Governor-General will enable the Executive Government to take complete control of the man-power, property, and resources of the Commonwealth. The necessity for the passing of this bill is obvious to all of us. We are fighting an enemy whose philosophy of life is one of primeval savagery. 
All of us have witnessed in the last few weeks the spectacle of our gallant ally, France, being overrun by the greatest military machine ever created by man. And this has been accomplished with a ruthlessness and ferocity surpassing in intensity anything previously known in human records. 
After attaining its first object, the possession of the French ports on the English Channel, the army of Germany proceeded with the second stage of its attack - the move against Paris. This city fell a few  day3  ago. 
When it became clear that the French army was reeling against the attacks of the invader, we received a treacherous blow in the back. Italy declared war on .England and France. Italy had apparently become mesmerized by the German successes, and envisaged an opportunity to obtain territorial expansion at no expense to itself. A victorious Germany would mean the end of British and French dominion in the Mediterranean Sea and the attainment of Italian dreams - naval supremacy in those waters and Italian lands in North Africa. In other  words,  Italy, by falling on Germany's side before it was too late, was to obtain everything without, perhaps, being required to fire a shot. 
While we sit here, the negotiations are apparently taking place between France and Germany for the purpose of arriving at either an armistice or a peace. We do not know the  result  of these negotiations, but, whatever may come, Britain  and  all British communities will fight on till the end. There can be no peace for us till Germany is for ever disarmed. This is a bill to mobilize our whole national life, .and everything we possess, in the furtherance of our fight to bring about such a time. I need hardly remind honorable senators that that time may be a long way off, that we may see a complete change in the whole of our ordered lives, and that we may have to endure untold hardships before that goal is attained; but it can only be attained by the marshalling of all our forces, and it is for this purpose that the bill is presented. 
The only limitation on the powers to be conferred by the bill is that no regulations may be made which will authorize the imposition of any form of compulsory service beyond the limits of Australia and its territories. 
I  remind  honorable senators that  u  similar bill was passed in New Zealand and assented to on the 31st May last, about a week after the passage of the Imperial act. The Government is most anxious that this bill shall have a speedy passage. I am hopeful that it will bo disposed of by 12.45 p.m. to-day. 
, -  At no time during my membership of this Senate have I had to make a speech so little in accord with the one that I should like to make. That does not imply any doubt as to the attitude of the Opposition to this measure. We are .supporting it, and we shall do our best to give it a speedy passage, in accordance with the wish of the Government, consistent, of course, with the exercise of our undoubted  right  to express  out  opinions regarding it. I am sure that all of us would have liked to make a speech in .this chamber to-day along the lines of peaceful reconstruction, after all the damage of war had been done. But the damage has not been concluded, and Australia, and members of this Parliament, must do their part. 
The Australian Labour party, which the Opposition represents in this chamber, is not a body of sporadic growth. Half a century has been occupied in building it up as an organization. Its history is the history of Australia. In whatever good or bad there is in the accomplishments of the Australian nation during the last half-century, the Australian Labour party as an organization has played its part. Its constitution provides that, on all matters relating to Commonwealth policy, the Federal Labour Conference shall be the governing "body 10  the movement. This conference is convened from all of the States. Each State has equal representation, and appoints six delegates to the conference. Its decisions have to be obeyed by all loyal members of the party, and, between conferences, the federal executive of the movement is charged with the responsibility of making decisions on matters of policy that arise unexpectedly, on which the platform of the party is silent. This week, the organization to which we on this side of the Senate belong held a conference, at which it laid down the Australian policy that the Australian Labour party will now follow. The decisions of that conference were as follows: - 
Having regard to the gravity of the world situation and the imminent danger to the Commonwealth of Australia, the Empire, and the Allies, this conference of the Australian Labour party definitely declares as its policy - 
Complete and indissoluble union with the Allies in the war; 
The entire resources of Australia (which include all productive and financial organizations) to be under the control of the Commonwealth Government for national service in the urgent and adequate defence of Australia and the prosecution of the war; 
That, to secure maximum productive efforts, all idle employable labour be absorbed into industry; 
Speeding up of our war and other services on a planned scale, aiming at the highest efficiency and the most economic use of the resources at our command ; 
National training for defence, in terms of the existing Defence Act, to be maintained on the highest basis of efficiency, and provision for an adequate system of physical training throughout Australia.; complete participation in the Empire Air Force scheme; necessary provision for reinforcement of the Australian Imperial Force divisions; the extent of European participation by volunteer army to be determined by circumstances as they arise, having regard to the paramount necessity of Australia's defence; 
Full recognition of trade unions, safeguarding industrial standards, and the participation by labour organizations in the successful organization of  the  nation; 
An excess war profits tax of 100 per cent. 
This conference is firmly convinced that Australia can be united on these principles, and calls to Australians to stand together in resisting aggression from any source, to bear willingly any burden that may be imposed in the interests of Australia's security, and to demonstrate to the Empire and its Allies that we shall not be found wanting in the struggle for human liberty. 
In order to implement effectively the policy agreed upon by the conference, and to achieve and maintain the maximum of national unity, and to ensure the preservation of the utmost degree of civil liberty consistent with the conduct of the war, this conference declares - 
That Parliament should be regularly consulted; 
That the Labour party should maintain its integral identity in the people's interests; 
That a national war council, including representatives of labour, should be established to advise the Government in respect of the conduct of the war and in preparing for the post-war reconstruction. 
I have read that in detail in order to secure its insertion in  Hansard,  in reply to much that has been said by honorable senators who sit on the other side of the chamber during recent months, and in justification of the attitude which the Opposition has always maintained with regard to our national responsibility. I emphasize the fact that this party is prepared to accept the full responsibility of government at any date fixed by the people as the date on which they wish us to assume that responsibility - either this week, next week, next month, or next year. I say quite definitely, too, that this party will not shirk all that that responsibility entails, as it has not, at any stage of the defence preparations, refused to give to the Government the fullest co-operation in the passage of any legislation which the Government desired to enact. Our grievance against the Government is, that it did not undertake defence preparations as early, as persistently, and as efficiently as we desired. I say now that, in respect of the major portions of the Government's defence policy, it has accepted our advice and is doing to-day, or is attempting to do, the very things which all along we have suggested ought to be done. 
-If the Assistant Minister  (Senator McBride)  can discern any considerable difference, in respect of fundamentals, between the old Labour policy and the new, he does not understand what policies mean. Does he think that any sane party, in view of all that is happening in the world to-day, would neglect to review its policy and bring it up to date? 
Would it not try so to mould its policy as to make it fit existing conditions? I said in my opening remarks that I should have liked to make a speech different from that which I am making. I should like to have made a speech consistent with the half-century-old ideals of this party regarding war, and its antithesis, peace. But I am prepared to abandon the attempt to do anything of the kind, because the whole of the history, the training and the activities of this party have made it a realist party. While actuated with the highest ideals and the purest of motives, we have at all times attempted to make our policy fit in with the realities of the immediate situation, whether in relation to industrial turmoil, industrial constructive activity, or a serious position such as that with which the nation is faced to-day. I submit that we should not be blamed, we should not be sneered at, we should not have interjections of the kind that have just been made. 
My  Deputy  Leader affirms that that is the wrong spirit. I, too, hold that opinion. I say that, if unity be desired, it is here for the asking, it is here for the taking. But, by heavens, honorable senators opposite must themselves exhibit the spirit of unity if they want us to enlist the aid of the great army of artisans, toilers and soldiers who come from the class that we represent. Your artisans, your tradesmen, your labourers, are drawn entirely from the ranks of the class that we represent. 
It is correct. Our soldiers come mainly from the class that we represent. 
If the Government wishes us to take a lead in this fight for national safety, if it wishes us to bring to its aid, to the aid of the nation, and to our own aid, the best that can be given by men who belong to the class that we represent in this chamber, I respectfully suggest that honorable senators supporting the Government might at least attempt to restrain themselves. It appears to me that, however dangerous may be the situation, however tremendous the issues involved, these gentlemen who appeal for unity are still unable to forget their political alliances and allegiances and the class that they represent, and cannot refrain from exhibiting class hatred and bitterness in this chamber. However strongly I may fight the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  politically, at least it can be said to his credit that, in another place, he did not indulge in any recrimination such as we have just heard from the Government benches in this chamber. 
We have listened to the speech delivered by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator MeLeay)  this morning. We have also heard and read on numerous occasions what the Prime Minister of Australia, as the mouthpiece of his Government, has been pleased to say on this very important matter. Honorable senators on this side of the Senate are prepared to accept the statement of the Prime Minister; we are ready to believe that he means all that he has said ; but I want to be quite sure that this Opposition leaves no loophole for later misunderstandings should anything happen which does not justify the faith that I have just professed. We are told, and we know that it is true, that legislation similar to this was passed in the Parliament of the United Kingdom in a few hours, and that similar legislation was also passed promptly by the Parliament of the Dominion of New Zealand. I direct attention to the fact that in the United Kingdom this legislation was neither passed, nor even pronosed, until the assistance of the great Labour movement of that country had been enlisted to enable that to be done, t also point out - what our opponents in chit, chamber are so anxious to conceal - that the Government of the Dominion of New Zealand is a Labour government. Honorable senators cannot have it both ways; they cannot charge the Labour party of Australia with being rotten, when all that they are now proposing under this bill has been achieved in the interest of the nation and the Empire by the Labour party, and no other party. Let that go on record. 
No individual is more hopeful than is the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  that the day is not far distant when there will be a change of Prime Ministers in Australia. I mean not a mere re-shuffling of Prime Ministers, but a change from government of the type that we have had for years to a government and a Prime Minister of an altogether different kind. If we are to retain our faith in the bona fides of the Right Honorable R. G. Menzies, he must do in this country what he proposes to do, and what he says that he is doing, on lines identical with those that are being followed in England, with one exception. We shall hope and, so far as we are able, insist that he does all of the things which this bill implies - a bill that he has modelled on what has been done by the Government of the United Kingdom. Let me place before honorable senators the remarks of the Labour leader,  Mr. Attlee,  in the Parliament of the United Kingdom, when introducing similar emergency legislation:  Mr. Attlee  said - 
The situation was so critical that th« Government was compelled to seek special powers by a bill to be passed through all  stages  in both Houses of Parliament that day (22nd May, 1040). A ruthless enemy, restrained by no considerations of international law,* justice or humanity, was throwing everything into the scale to force a decision. We were resolved that he should not, succeed. The Government- was convinced that we must mobilize to the full the whole resources of the country. Every private interest must give way to the urgent needs nf the community. It waa necessary that the Government should be given complete control aver persons and property, not just come persons in some particular class of the community, but all persons, rich or poor, employer or employed, man or woman. 
 Hear, hear! 
Indicating the kind of regulations and  control  that might have to be exercised under the bill, the Minister of Labour would  bo  given power to direct any persons to perform any services required of him. 
On how many occasions have I suggested in  this  chamber that even under normal  conditions  the Government should plan the economy of the nation. We are now able  to  see what can be done in wartime, and every effort should be made in peace-time also to use our man and woman power and our national resources generally in order to obtain the best for every human being in the community.  Mr. Attlee  continued -  **That applied  to  everybody. No one  could  tell what these days might bring forth or who might be .required to dig defences or do anything else, but everybody alike must b» under this control. The Minister  of Labour  would be able  to  prescribe the terms of remuneration, the hours of labour and conditions of service. Remuneration would be  on  the basis of remuneration for the job.  lt waa  proposed to carry out wherever they existed industrial agreements which  had  been  arrived  at already, and wherever such agreement  had  not been arrived at to observe the  rate*  normally paid by good employers. 
Will the Leader of the Senate bring that statement under the notice of the Prime Minister so that he may be assured that he is travelling along the right road, and so that he may follow the course which he has so definitely indicated he is prepared to follow? Under the British legislation provision is made for the inspection of premises and for employers to produce their books. Years ago the Labour party insisted that legislative provision should be made in that direction. That is one feature  of  our industrial legislation for which the Labour party has been entirely responsible.  Mr. Attlee  also said - 
Some establishments would be controlled altogether right away. Others might be  eontrolled  later. They would,  in  effect,  be working  on government account. Wages and  profits would bo under government control. The excess profits tax. would be at the rate of 100 per cent. There would be no profit out of the national emergency. Other establishments might be ordered to carry on, and they might perhaps be ordered to carry on at a loss, but there must be power to carry on essential services. If people were put in a position where they were making a loss they must have adequate remuneration to do their job effectively. The essential thing was that over a wide field of industry - how wide one could not say at the moment - industry would be carried on for the community in fact and not for private profit. There might be cases where firms would have to close down, and there might be destruction of property here and there. One could not tell what would happen. There would he difficult questions of compensation; but in an emergency these things could not be worked out precisely. In the meantime there would have to be interim compensation. 
We should like to be assured that this Government proposes to control all profits. We have been informed that the excess profits tax in Britain will be at the rate of 100 per cent. There should be no hesitation in taxing all profits, and profits made as a result of war activities should be at the rate of 100 per cent. Ordinary profits should be taxed at a Specified rate after allowing to those who make them the same opportunities to live as are available to the workers in the  community.  Mr. Attlee  also said that there would have to be control of the financial institutions and of the banks. We have. not, heard. a word, about the Government following Great Britain in that respect. 
The Government has complete control now. 
There would have to ho control of the finance of the country and the banks. It might be done centrally, or, if conditions required it, done through regional commissioners and financial: advisers. 
We have heard that advisory boards and committees have been appointed to undertake certain work in connexion with the Government's defence scheme. I am not quarrelling with that; but I am strongly opposed to the salaries paid to some of these so-called advisers. I should like to know when the Government proposes to supply us with the names of its financial commissioners and advisers through whom it proposes to control the banks and financial institutions generally, as is being done in Britain.  Mr. Attlee  concluded - 
These things were to be done under the orders of the Government, and the orders would be given by the competent authority - the Minister concerned with that particular national activity. It was essential in this crisis that we should produce to the full all our essential munitions, and the Minister of Labour had been given the responsibility of supplying the labour required for the programmes of the various departments. He proposed to set up, at once, a production council. 
It was proposed to set up a Director oi Labour Supply with full-time assistance drawn from trade unions and employers. There would be local organizations based on area boards. There would be full control of building operations. That was essential. At all important centres labour supply committees would be set up to organize local self-help for meeting difficulties in the labour supply. It was proposed that firms should be grouped for the best utilization of labour and to prevent waste. 
Firms engaged on munitions would become controlled establishments. The Minister of Labour intended to work in the closest cooperation with trade unions and employers' organizations. It might be that cases would arise where, under this stress, agreements were reached to set aside for the time being customs in industry that had been agreed upon between employers and employees. 
It was essential that all engaged in this great effort should be satisfied that their rights would remain alive and in being, and it was proposed that there should be an addition to the fair wages clause whereby employers who did not, at the end of this war, restore any customs or conditions which had been set aside for the war would be ineligible to  go  on the list of Government contractors. 
What other action was taken must depend on how events moved. It must be in the minds of all that everything for which we stood was in jeopardy. Our political  Tights,  our rights of conscience, our industrial rights - everything would go If we did not defeat the enemy. He. was quite sure that everybody knew what was at stake, hut while the powers envisaged by the bill were necessary,, the real force behind the Government was the will and determination of a free people. 
The Prime Minister, who has used language similar to that employed by  Mr. Attlee,  stated - 
The man who has property as well as life, liberty and his pursuit of happiness, may well be expected to place that property to-day at the disposal of the country in order that those intangible things of his may be protected. 
We. agree with that, but I direct attention to the fact that no distinction is  made between persona. Reference is made to the placing of property at 'the disposal of the Government; but I have not heard anything definite of any properties being placed at the disposal of the country, or of 'amy attempt being made to -do anything of that kind. Yesterday,  Senator -Sheehan  complained because he could not obtain particulars concerning the cost of acquiring and -preparing certain lands and buildings for defence purposes, which 'later were vacated; he 'was informed that the expenditure on one property was only £400, whereas he has reason to -believe that the cost was nearer to £40,000. 
 T.hat was not the purchase price. 
 'The company's action has never been appreciated, 
First, it -will continue -so %&amp; 'order the business which it does with manufacturers, with contractors and with all others who may  be  engaged in the supply of materials of  war-,  that 'there will he no profiteering in this  war. 
That is a very laudable declaration. I have already said that I believe the Prime Minister means what he says, but I should like him to ** deliver the goods " by legislation to prohibit profiteering. He said further - 
It will continue to  exercise  its control  over  prices in this country so that there will be no war profiteering of any kind in this  country  But, if somebody escapes through the net, U it  turns  'out that there is -ti war profiteer., that there are war profits in this sense  iri  Australia, we shall regard ourselves as noi only entitled, but also bound, to take the whole o'£ those profits by taxation. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate: Is he not aware that many companies are still making huge profits which are not directly associated with defence activities? Those profits are in excess of what anybody should be allowed to make in this country at any time, and we should not allow the draining of the life-blood of the nation to such a degree. I 'could mention the names of the companies, hut honorable senators opposite know them as well as I do. 
 They are being well taxed. 
T shall now quote briefly from the remarks made by the Prime Minister on the question of what the Government proposes to do under this bill, so far as organized Labour is concerned. The Senate heard what I read about our conference decision, which I hope will come to fruition, namely, that there should be a war council in which all of these things should be discussed and common-sense arrangements arrived at. The Prime Minister himself has said that that is what he believes. He said - 
That is a very comprehensive power to take. lt ie a power which is capable of abuse. All great powers are, but it is a power which I believe, properly understood and wisely exercised, can be used to the enormous advantage of Australia. 
Then he went on to say that unionists generally were as patriotic aa any other section of the community. We have asserted that over and over again. He said - 
The fact that I am asking, and that the Government to-day is asking, Parliament to give powers of compulsion leaves the principle of working quite unchanged. We want cooperation. We may have compulsive authority in our pocket, but we are going to get the best results from the trade unionists of Australia ... by a system of co-operation, by saying, as I have repeatedly said, " Come in and co-operate with us ". 
Whether the right honorable gentleman believes that, and I believe that he does, whether he intends that, and I think that he does, we shall see as things progress. I finish,  Mr. President,  where I began. T say that if this Government really desires unity, really desires co-operation, it must forget a lot of things which, in the past, it, like the. elephant, has never seemed able to forget. It should not say the things that make for disunity rather than unity. It must recognize the fact that Labour is the only party which can bring to this essential effort that unity amongst those that can contribute most which is so urgently necessary at the moment. I think that  Senator McBride  asked, by interjection, why we do not go into a national government. That is a threadbare suggestion. Ministerial supporters know, because we have told them often, why we will not come in. First, we do not believe that that is the best contribution we can make to the solution of the problem which confronts this nation. We do not for a moment believe that our opponents really want us to come in. I go further, and say for myself, that I am absolutely certain that they do not want us to come in. They could not really want members of this party to come into co-operation with them as part and parcel of the Cabinet when they have never had a kindly word to say either about any one of us as senators and members of the class that we represent, or about the leaders whom we follow in our industrial and political organizations. 
 That is a tisane of untruths. 
Order! 
Blarney? You accepted him without any hesitation. You do not want me to give the sordid details in this assembly. What about some of the others you took to your bosom and put into these jobs - men who barely escaped conviction for conspiracy? You have given opportunity to those men, but, when  Mr. Theodore's  name was mentioned, you went berserk and refused to have him. Because we belong to the Labour party you hate us and you do not want us. 
Order! The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  on his peroration. It was the one part of his speech that I greatly admired. In this grave time we would do well to refer to the cabled report yesterday of the wonderful speech made by the British Prime Minister,  Mr. Churchill,  about past faults and the need now not to spend time  in attributing  blame  -for earlier  failures  or semi-failures in the war effort. No one pretends that Australia kas been thoroughly alive to  the  real necessities of our present situation, but, 'happily, we are awakened. I hope that that awakening will not  be  'accompanied by any feather -suggestion of hatred or bitterness. That is a danger *o the country - a weak spot through which the enemy may pierce our  armour  and through which propaganda may leak. The Leader of the Opposition should be the last good Australian to indulge in recrimination of that nature. I deplore the application of the word " hatred " to the relations of parties in this Parliament. I repudiate any suggestion that we on this side 'hate anybody opposite, because, although our political opinions differ on many matters, there axe many other matters upon which we are absolutely united. The things that unite us&gt; axe far-greater than the things that divide us, and that fact should be kept in mind. 
As 1 listened to the honorable gentleman's speech I was 'reminded of the extra cost that too often occurs in connexion with governmental undertakings in this and every other country and which undoubtedly interferes with the carrying out of public efforts and public works. My mind went back to a little passage in an old book,  Pepys'  Diary.  Honorable senators, probably, are aware that  Mr. Pepys  was Overseer for the Navy in Britain nearly SOO yeaTs ago. He relates how on one 'Occasion he visited one of the great ports of England, and inspected work being done on one of  His  Majesty's ships. The vessel was being shored, and engaged in the task were the crews of a number of other warships then in the port. He saw that many hundreds more men than were necessary were being employed to do this job, and at the same time work on other warships was being interrupted. He summed np the position by saying, "Wherefore,  I perceive it is impossible for His Majesty to have his work done as cheaply as can another ". I suggest that waste of this kind is inherent in all Government effort, and I do not think it is fair that nearly 300 years  after  Pepys made that observation the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator  Collings)  should refer to wasteful Government expenditure in matters of this kind as , some.thing new. I do not think that the Menzies Government can .be blamed .for what Pepys so long ago found ito be unavoidable in government effort. 1 do not intend to enter into any controversy over the matters which the honorable senator has raised. 1 assure him and his colleagues that it is nonsense to sUggeSt that honorable senators on this side entertain feelings of hate towards them. Class  should  not be allowed to enter into these matters. All of us are at one in our effort to resist the pernicious danger that is now threatening the world. I wish to refer briefly to two aspects of the war. One of them is expressed in a motion which stands in my name on tha notice-paper; hut the first and paramount consideration, on which I feel sure that the Leader of the Opposition will agree absolutely with  me,  as I believe he does in respect of the -second consideration, is that it is essential first to win the war, and win it so convincingly that we shall be in a position to dictate to the aggressors a set of conditions which will make it impossible for aggression of the kind we are now facing to occur again in this world. 
I ask the honorable senator not to interject merely for the sake of saying something smart, but to endeavour to understand proposals which are made seriously for the consideration of honorable senators. If he does so he will realize that all honorable senators wish to prevent a recurrence of just those conditions which he knows have arisen since the last war simply because of the inability of the League of Nations to preserve the peace of the world. He must realize that if such a scheme as I propose can he carried out, all of the wealth and energy now devoted annually to the building up of huge armaments for the destruction of human beings will be released for the purpose of social improvement. Only under such conditions can the workers hope to attain happiness. However, we cannot consider that proposal for the present. We must immediately bend our every effort and thought with an inflexible will to win the war so convincingly that we shall be in a position to dictate the peace of the world, and thus guarantee at least some security as a basis for the provision of those things which the human race cherishes. 1 believe that at this moment the waves of Hitlerism and Nazi-ism are lapping the very rock upon which they will be broken, namely, the solidarity of the British peoples of the world. No doubt the tide of Hitlerism will endeavour to submerge that rock, but it will fail to do so, and it will not be very long before that failure is apparent in the retreat of the German forces. I have no doubt that when that day arrives we shall continue the struggle in the Balkans. Eventually, the ships of the British navy will bring Hitler to his knees. He will then realize that it is impossible for any nation to dominate the world unless it has sea power. I thank God that the Allied forces to-day possess in their navies the means to check this robber. 
I again urge honorable senators opposite not to assume that any honorable senator on this side is their personal enemy. Neither should they ascribe to us uncharitable thoughts which we do not hold. 
Tes, and I thought that it would be far better if we had no interjections at all of that kind. The honorable senator certainly did not hear me interject when he was speaking. In his speech he asked, "Do we hear of property being offered to the Commonwealth?" I, myself, know of certain people who have given for the use of the Government, free of interest, hundreds of thousands of pounds. No doubt they are wealthy people, and, probably, can afford to make such gifts to the Government. The fact remains, however, that they have acted generously in this matter, and without seeking any advertisement for themselves. Their names have never been published. Our job to-day is to pass this measure in order to enable this country to make a supreme war effort. We must win this war, but we shall not do so if we display the petty spirit reflected in some of the interjections made in this debate. I urge honorable senators to give this measure a speedy passage. 
I propose to leave in abeyance the motion standing in my name on the noticepaper, in which I propose the establishment of a world armament commonwealth. I have no doubt that we shall win the war, and it will then be the time to press that matter. I hope that all of us will retain our faith in ultimate victory. I have not the slightest doubt that we shall win this war, although in winning it we shall be called upon to go through a Garden of Gethsemane and to endure terrible sufferings. In order to remove any misunderstanding, I intend to eliminate clause 4 of my motion, which deals with an armistice. Experience has taught us that we can make no compromise with Hitler. Either we shall go down or Hitler will. We have the will to win, and we must hang  on to  the bitter end, using every effort to  achieve  victory. By the grace of God we shall eventually smash Hitler. 
I oppose the bill. I do so because the Government has had every opportunity to prosecute the war to the fullest possible degree without creating the panic in which the people of Australia find themselves at the present time. Under the Supply and Development Act and the National Security Act the Government took all of the powers it requires in order to enable it do its job. It failed, however, to do that job. As the result of that failure and the criticism levelled against the Government in the press in connexion with the bungling of work in annexes, the people became panicky. The Government has now decided to nullify the provision inserted in the existing law at the instance of the Labour party, whereby the workers are protected against industrial conscription. It hopes to achieve that object under this. measure, but before introducing the amending bill it deliberately created panic among the people in order to win support for its present action. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  has spoken for this purpose over the air, and press criticism has helped to increase the fear among our people. The cry was sent forth that Parliament must be re-assembled immediately in order that more far-reaching powers might be vested in the Executive. I repeat that the main object of this measure is to enable the Government to go back on its word that it would not resort to industrial conscription. When this change of attitude became apparent many in the Labour party determined to resist industrial conscription. That was the reason for the formation of the non-Communist Labour party in this Parliament, which  I  have the honour to lead in this chamber. My party was created in order to safeguard the interests and rights of the working class. Some of those rights, I am sad to say, have been  3old  to the Government by the Leaders of the Opposition in this chamber and the House of Representatives. On the plea of emergency, the Government has called Parliament together, and has asked us to give to it dictatorial powers. But why, at this late stage, should such action on the part of the Government cause any surprise? Why should the Government ask Parliament to give it authority to do certain things when it has already assumed that authority? Prom the evidence available it would appear that Ministers want the Labour party to give its blessing to the mistakes which the Government has already made in connexion with its war policy, and further mistakes which it will make in the future. In effect, it has asked the Labour party to give to it a blank cheque in order that it may escape condemnation for any mistakes which it may make in the future. There can be no doubt that the Government has been responsible for one bungle after another. It has appointed certain people to help it to do its job and, constantly, we see it exercising more and more power. The Government already possesses power to do everything necessary to prosecute its war effort, but the object of this measure is to enable the Government to go back on the assurance it gave to the Labour party that there will be no industrial conscription. Perhaps there is more to it than that. The Government's proposal may be divided into three requests. The Prime Minister has announced that the Government proposes to conscript men for home defence in order to build up a force of 250,000, to conscript wealth, and to conscript man-power in industry. We are told that the first proposal involves the conscription of an additional 80,000 Australians. I challenge any one to contradict me when I say that the Government has already failed to equip, or accommodate, all of the volunteers who have offered their services in defence of this country. Not one Australian would refuse to defend his country. The fact is that the Government has refused to accept the services of many volunteers. Consequently," it now invites this Parliament to give approval to its record of bungling. But Parliament should not put the stigma of conscription upon the manhood of Australia, for our men are prepared to do voluntarily all that is asked of them. There has been no dearth of volunteers for the Army. The fact is that the Government has not been able to deal with all the men who have offered their services. Men have volunteered in their thousands. Many in country districts have waited for three or four weeks after volunteering, and when no reply has been received to their offer to serve, they have then rushed to recruiting depots and enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force under fictitious names. There is  no  need whatever for the Prime Minister to talk about conscripting men for Militia training, for our men are most anxious to be allowed to do some useful work. If the manufacture of armaments and equipment is required any number of men will volunteer at once for the work if they are asked to do so, for they are looking for an opportunity to serve.  I  am quite confident that the men of Australia will readily offer to undergo physical training, and to receive instruction in military service, without the application of conscription. 
I wish to say a few words about the annexes. We have been informed through the Government, no doubt upon the authority of certain officers  in  charge of the annexes, that it is impossible to secure precision art-sans in sufficient numbers to operate the machinery in the factories. On Wednesday of this week I had occasion to visit the Sydney Showground. In one building I saw about 200 men lying about  because rain was falling outside. They consisted of fitters, turners, electricians and precision workers of many classes. When I asked what they were doing there I was informed that they had been told that there were no schools available in which they could be put so that they could use their brains in the service of the nation. Yet, certain people in charge of annexes have declared that they are unable to obtain instructors to train men to work the machines required for the manufacture of arms and ammunition. I read in the  Sydney Morning Herald  yesterday that the Railways Commissioner of New South Wales proposes to release 1,000 apprentices who are in their third or fourth year of training so that they may be permitted to join the Australian Imperial Force. On the one hand, therefore, we find 200 men lying idle in a building at the Showground on a wet day, or simply marching about on a fine  day,  because there are no schools in which their training would fit them to be instructors and the like; and, on the other hand, we read of a proposal that 1,000 apprentices shall be released in order that they may join the Australian Imperial Force. If the railway authorities can spare these men from their normal duties, surely they could be employed  in the annexes where skilled and partially skilled men are needed. While I was at the Showground the other day I inspected the quarters in which the men were located and also the buildings in which the sheep show was being held. It seems to me that the sheep show could well have been abandoned for the time being. Of course the sheep are valuable animals, but they are not so valuable, nor is the show so urgent a need, as to justify the shifting of the men into inferior quarters. I am glad that the men had sufficient courage to say that rather than go into a building in which they would be compelled to sleep on wet sand they would walk out of the camp. The building in which the sheep were penned at least had a good floor. 
The Government has indicated that it desires this bill to be passed in order that certain work may be pushed ahead in some of the annexes that have been built in establishments adjacent to private engineering plants. The Government says it wants co-operation. Actually, however, all it wants is the co-operation of " yes men ", and co-operation in order to introduce industrial conscription. It will not get such co-operation from me. The passing of this bill is not likely to be of any benefit to Australia. With  Mr. Beasley  I visited the establishment of the Electricity Meter Manufacturing Company, where there is an annexe in which a number of machines are installed. I suppose that 45 per cent, of the machines came from Germany, and another 45 per cent, of them from America. The rest were of British manufacture. The German machinery, which was bought before the war, had been erected in the factory for seven months. When I visited the establishment with  Mr. Beasley,  no men were engaged and the manager informed me that be was then examining his papers in order to marshal his staff. We then went round to the annexes at Duly and Hansford Limited and at the Eveleigh workshops. We walked into the Eveleigh workshops without being challenged in any way. We discovered that some of the machines that had been put up there months ago had been found to be out of alinement and had had to be taken down. That visit was made on a Tuesday. On the following Monday, after the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  had been informed that  Mr. Beasley  and I, on one day, and  Mr. Beasley  and  Mr. Rosevear,  on another day, had been around, he consented to allow a party to accompany him ou a visit to various annexes. Although only a week had elapsed between our visit and the visit of the party, a good deal had been got under way. A certain amount of showmanship was demonstrated. Our last visit that day was to the Eveleigh workshops where men were working machines. Twenty minutes after we left the building no men were working the machines, and the shell cases that had been manufactured were sent back to the furnace because they did not measure up to the required tests. Is thai the way to do things? Can co-operation be expected when that kind of thing is going on 
When we got to the annexe of the Colonial Sugar Henning Company Limited we found 150 or 200 men clamouring at the door and demanding employment. This shows clearly that there is no need whatever to conscript men for industry. The men are anxious to do the work that needs to be done. I believe that the " Quislings " and the " Leopolds " are not in the workshops ; they are up here directing operations. The Government asks for co-operation in respect of this, that and the other activity, but, after what I have seen, it will not get it from me. Every honorable senator on this side of the chamber knows that the purpose of this bill is to conscript the very men whom they represent here - that is, the organized trade unionists of Australia; and, to my surprise, some of them are apparently prepared to agree to the bill, notwithstanding that the people that they represent are protesting very strongly against it on the ground that it is not necessary. 
It has been said that the position will be all right after this bill has been passed, and that  Mr. Essington  Lewis will then be able to do his job. According to the  Commonwealth Gazette  of the 20th March, 1940,  Mr. Essington  Lewis was appointed  chairman  of the Board of Business Administration, other members of which were the Right Honorable  Sir George  Pearce,  Mr. Norman  Myer,  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene and  Mr. Edwin  Van-der-Vord Nixon. I think that  Mr. Essington  Lewis was also  chairman  of the first industrial panel appointed by the Government. Now, he is to be given oven wider authority. I wonder what more power 'he requires. In Australia to-day, there are 100,000 men out of work. Does  Mr. Essington  Lewis require more power to enable him to employ some of these men in useful occupations? Does he require power to conscript industrial employees in order to set them to work in munitions annexes? I appeal to the Government to get on with the joh, and not to take away from Parliament the rights which it possesses. The setting up of panels and boards is not necessary; all that is required is that this Parliament shall 

 Senator Amour. be called together frequently, so that members of both Houses may have an opportunity to offer constructive criticism. The people now at. the head of these boards and occupying executive positions, together with a number of departmental heads, should be removed, and their places given to men who would get on with the job. Parliament is quite capable of handling, much of the authority which the Government is now delegating to outside instrumentalities. There is an ample supply of trained artisans in the workshops, and there is a sufficient number of capable organizers who, although not so high up in the government service as others, are willing and anxious to servo. 
Returning for a moment to the inspection of munitions annexes made by members of Parliament in company with the Minister for Supply and Development, I shall deal with a visit which was paid to the workshops where an attempt is being made to manufacture Beaufort bombers. These machines are to be made in three sections, which will be transported to a central workshop for assembly. Members who made the inspection were accompanied by  Mr. Storey,  who, we are informed, has forgone a large private income in order to devote his energies to defence work in Australia. Also in the party were 20 or 30 pressmen and others.  Mr. Storey  said that it was hoped to have 1,500 planes fifteen months hence. A question was put to him with regard to the supply of aluminium, and he replied that production of planes, of course, depended upon an ample supply of white metal. Somebody suggested that if we had not that supply of white metal, we would have no aeroplanes at all, and  Mr. Storey  admitted that that was the position. Utterances such as that by men in responsible positions strike panic to the hearts of the people. It is high time that something was done to prevent damaging statements. Speaking over the national network recently, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  declared that Australia would throw its weight behind the Empire's defence effort until its financial resources were completely exhausted. As the result of that statement, next day there was a run upon the banks, and the Prime Minister was forced to announce  that the Government had no intention of confiscating the people's savings. Panic can only hamper our national effort. Australia requires capable leadership and I am sure that the people of this country have not confidence in the Prime Minister, -whose frequent statements tend to :give the impression that, although the position is getting worse and worse, nothing is being done about it. Honorable senators should not regard die Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  as a .good fellow because he has consented to support the bilL We should not assume that we .are doing a good job hy supporting a measure -such as this. Of what use will 250,000 troops be if there are no war implements for them to operate? Direct .action is necessary to put our munitions production -on a sound basis. Why not give jobs to the 100,000 men who are now out of work? If there are capable artisans in other industries, get them to the annexes. This is no time for showmanship. I point out that all completed shell cases, including nose caps, which are made .in New South Wales, have to be sent to a Victorian establishment to be charged. There is only one charging factory in Australia, and no doubt its location is well known. -Should this country be attacked, and that factory put out of action, no shells could be produced. This industry should be decentralized. Today, .the Government is worried about what it should do, and has decided to seek additional power. We are fighting a very .strong nation- a nation whose currency at one time became valueless on the world's market. Undeterred, however, the German people set about building up their country, and by means of a system of barter, and an internal currency they have been able to organize huge .industrial resources. It was claimed that their financial methods were a violation of international principles, and of established banking practice, and Great Britain, France, and other democracies elected to stick to the orthodox methods. Because they did that, they were unable to keep pace with Germany's development, and to-day are unable to do the things that should have been done in time of national emergency. They have found " Quislings " and "' Leopolds " in hundreds and thousands  As has already been pointed out,  there  is no provision in this bill for taking over the private banking institutions. Obviously, the Government does noi want to do that, and is content .to meddle and quibble. I understand that a bill is to be submitted to us for the raising of another £20,&lt;000,00.0 in Australia, but this piecemeal borrowing will be of little use. To defend this country we must utilize the -credit of the nation to the fullest possible degree, or very -soon  tvt  shall have no country to defend.  What  is lacking in our war effort to-day is not co-operation but action. We should -not delude ourselves. Under the National Security Act, the Government has all the power it needs to defend this country, and pursue our war effort. There is no necessity for industrial conscription while there are 100,000 men out -of work. Apparently, it is the intention of the Government to create something in the nature of a state of panic in order that attention may not be focused upon the Government's muddling policY. The Government knows that that is true. No doubt the newspapers will name all those who vote against this bill. I shall vote against the bill, because I do not trust the Government to handle the situation. I have already explained the reason for my attitude; I want action. The old orthodox methods are of no use to-day. If this country were attacked, we would have only a couple of pop-guns to defend it. Some years ago, Admiral Henderson visited Australia and reported on our naval defence. He stressed the necessity to encourage a fishing fleet, which, he said, would provide the nation with useful vessels and. give our seamen a wonderful knowledge of the Australian coast. A Labour government in New South Wales established a fishing fleet which did valuable work in the training of seamen on the Australian coast, but a government of the United Australia party sold the fleet to the Italians. Today, it is not the Australians who have a wonderful knowledge of the Australian coast, but the Italians. The Commonwealth Government to-day is recreant to the trust imposed in it, and if it is not prepared to do its job, it will not have my support. I am surprised that the 
Leader of the Opposition has fallen into the trap set for him, and has decided to support this measure. It is true that the Prime Minister has said that industrial conscription might never have to be employed, but what advantage of this legislation will be taken by employers such as  Mr. Essington  Lewis? How will this power be applied to the workers employed by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and in other industries? I can visualize what will happen. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  with whom I disagree, has stated that he is proud to support this measure which, as I have shown, will give to the Government power . to conscript the workers of Australia for industrial services without, at the same time, taking over the 'banking institutions. There is no intention on the part of the Government to conscript the wealth of this country. 
The Government has that power under the present act and so far has done nothing in that direction. The Ministry is now seeking wider power which will be used to mishandle the workers of this nation. I regret very much that the Government has not made better use of its authority under the existing act. Evidently it intends to carry on with the same old- gang, and I very much fear that when the Senate reassembles after the impending recess, the position of Australia will not have improved very much, if at all. My fear is that there are too many " Quislings " and " Leopolds " about, not among the workers of this country, but among those higher up in the social scale. The Government should clean them out and get on with the job of defending Australia. Under existing conditions any co-operation which the Leader of the Opposition and his supporters may give ro the Government will not achieve the desired end. Even the formation of a National War Council, as has been suggested, would not improve the position. The responsibility rests on the Government to put the position right. Whether we have a national government, as distinct from the present Administration, or a National War Council, if the Ministry adheres to the present orthodox method of finance, and if Australia goes down in this struggle, the Government and its supporters will deserve all the obloquy that future generations may heap upon them. I urge Ministers to shift over from the orthodox system of finance in this grave crisis, to take charge of our banking institutions, and make full use of the credit resources of the nation. Germany was able to do that and trample over opposing nations, and we should meet the menace of to-day by adopting new financial methods. The proposal to raise another £20,000,000 will not be sufficient. We shall require another £20,000,000 a week or two later. The Government has the power to do everything that would be expected of a strong administration in this crisis, and it should, without further hesitation, take over all banking institutions and thus do something really effective for Australia at this time. 
.- During the last fortnight public opinion throughout the Commonwealth has been urging the Government to follow Great Britain. Canada and New Zealand's example by marshalling all our manpower, materials and wealth in a combined national war effort. This bill is the Government's answer. The only weak spot in it is that the proposal to utilize man-power is not wide enough. Omitting lines of communication and garrison units, and men guarding essential services and important localities, there should be an active field army of not only 250,000, but also another 150,000 standing by as replacements. Such a force, irrespective of our contribution to the Empire Air Force, and the voluntarily enlisted Australian Imperial Force for overseas service, would be a deterrent to any nation contemplating an invasion. 
The passing of this bill will be a definite forward step towards providing the necessary equipment and mechanical aids for that force. We have the men, if the Government will set the example by having  a  scheme to replace those of military age in every department by older men and even retired public servants. Such men thus released should do 'their three months' camp training in the Militia and be ready to take their places in our home defence field army on full mobilization. The only persons exempted should be those engaged in producing war material. The Government should implement to the full the provisions of section 60 of the Defence Act. Some might call this conscription; others, compulsory military service. The correct designation is " national service for home defence ". The Government must take a determined stand in this matter. What more is wanted for an " all-in " man-power call up than the present war situation? "J.u the last few days, the war has been brought perilously near this continent. Who can say what the line-up of nations will be when Britain is fighting on its own soil for the Empire's very existence? 
My attention has 'been drawn to the lack of enlistment in the Australian Imperial Force signals service. That branch of the Army requires telephone mechanics and telephonists. In the PostmasterGeneral's Department are many men with these qualifications, anxious to enlist, but not permitted to do so because exemption is claimed for them under the Reserved Occupations Regulations. It is time that these regulations were revised, and the age limit increased by ten years or more. 
Recently I suggested to the Government that all fit young men in the Defence Department and certain army units should be replaced by older men with, of course, the necessary qualifications for the respective positions. Similar action is recommended in respect of other Commonwealth departments, including the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I admit that it will be difficult to replace those officials in permanent employment, owing to superannuation and promotion rights and other considerations. The war has been responsible for an influx of a large number of temporary hands, many of whom are of enlistment age. These temporary appointments should be for men over military age. No doubt scores of Commonwealth and State public servants, now permanently employed, are anxious to do something more practical for the defence of Aus tralia than wielding a pen or striking a typewriter. Are heads of Federal and State departments giving every facility to do so? I have my doubts. The Commonwealth Public Service needs to be told that there is a war on, a war perilously close to Australia. It should be placed on a war footing. We must not have a repetition of what happened in the Defence Department at the last week-end - public servants signing off at 5 p.m. on Friday until 9 a.m. on Tuesday, while military, naval and air force clerks worked right through without that holiday week-end. Routine and procedure must be cast overboard. 
Is this the time for the Public Service Board to hold a clerical examination for further promotions? Some hundreds of men of military age are studying for that examination which will take place in October next. The holding of the examination prevents numbers from enlisting. Enlistment now is far more valuable than it will be when disaster overcomes the Empire. Further, this is unfair to those young patriots who have already enlisted and cannot take the advantage of possible promotion in the Commonwealth Public Service, as they will miss this examination. The Government should instruct the Public Service Board to postpone this examination for at least two years. 
I commend the Government for 'being more active in rounding up persons linked with the fifth column. A good start has been made, but more should be interned. There is plenty of room in the Dhuringhille camp for hundreds more. In this connexion I draw the Government's attention to the amount of petrol used by wives of internees in that camp. When I was there last Monday, five cars arrived during the afternoon - expensive cars driven by alien females. At least two of these cars came over 100 miles. Why should they be allowed to use petrol freely now, when the supply is so limited that rationing is shortly to be imposed on loyal citizens? Why cannot those well-dressed dames use the train and hire a jinker to drive them the '7 miles from the station to the camp if they want to see their men folk? 
No they drove their own cars and the look which some of them gave me- was enough' almost to kill me.. .1 am pleased' that the- Government has decided to utilize the services of the old Australian Imperial Force. A scheme for this phase of home defence preparation should have been evolved long ago:. it appears- Co me that the services of another body of patriotic citizens -members of rifle clubs - are not being utilized to the full. A great number of rifle club men have enlisted. The remainder constitute a reserve to the Militia. Those skilled riflemen are anxious §0- do something more than be an academic reserve. If I were Minister for the Army, I would employ these men  in  instructing eligible men in the use of the rifle so- that when called up for their three months' camp, they would have so much less to learn. Hundred's of men of military age would gladly put in their Saturday afternoons in this manner. The rifle is not obsolete. Oh Sunday last I gave a public address1 in Melbourne on1 what will be known in history as the- "Epic of Dunkirk". In preparing material for that half-hour talk, I had to check up on certain details.  1  found that the British Expeditionary Force in withdrawing the 40 miles to the sand dunes of Dunkirk used the rifle, the Bren gun and the Vickers gun with deadly effect. The field guns and tanks had. to Le abandoned owing to enemy pressure on all sides. Retiring and fighting,, fighting and retiring, those gallant men, with the weapons they carried, eased the German pressure on their comrades who were being evacuated at Dunkirk. A decision to use our skilled rifle club members for the purpose suggested, would arouse greater enthusiasm amongst our young men. At present they think that the Government is only luke-warm. I know the reason why my suggestion is not likely to be adopted. 
I cannot state it publicly, but I shall be pleased to give it to the Minister privately. 
The .Ministerknows the reason as' well as. I1 do.. Thisobjection should be. overcome and an " all-im " policy of training pursued with greater enthusiasm. I support die bill wholeheartedly. 

 Senator KEANE' (Victoria) [II.57J.- In view of the limited time allowed for the debate on this bill I shall speak more briefly than some other honorable senators have done this morning. As  a  member of the Opposition, in normal times I am opposed to the Government whether inside or outside this chamber, but in the present war situation I consider that opposition should be suspended while this, legislation is under discussion. The Leader of my party  (Mr. Curtin)  thought in  Ms wisdom  that the war situation was so serious as' to render advisable the calling of a. special conference of Labour organizations' in order to consider Labour's war policy. My leader in this chamber  (Senator Ceilings'.)  has read the resolutions of. the conference and with them the Parliamentary Labour party is in accord. We are also in sympathy with, the purpose of the bill now under discussion, except in one respect. Members of my party in the Senate and in the House of. Representatives have some doubt as to the manner in which the Government will utilize the powers given by this measure over the industrial life of the country. Consequently when the bill is in committee an amendment will be submitted for the purpose of safeguarding the position. I suggest that no government could carry on during a great national crisis without the support of the workers. I believe that this Government will not abuse the wide power* to be conferred upon it. If the Opposition were now in office, it would certainly see that the man-power of this country was used in the most effective way. 
I could say much about things that this Government has failed to do.  Senator Sheehan  and 1 suggested last year that the State railway workshops should be used for the manufacture of munitions. 
It is absolutely necessary to use the services of the large bodies of skilled men who are employed in the various railway workshops throughout the Commonwealth. The services of the workmen who built the  Spirit of Progress  and the masterpieces of railway locomotive engineering in use in Victoria and New South Wales are available to the nation, and I am glad that the Government intends to take full advantage of their skill. I« its arrangements for the defence of Australia, the Government should not forget the value of the railway systems. If heavy guns had to be hauled from place to place, the present roads would not stand up to the strain that would be imposed on them. Therefore, the railroads should be maintained in perfect order, and if the State governments have insufficient funds for this purpose, the Commonwealth Government should provide the requisite money. One of the great dangers that confront Australia during this crisis is the possibility of a stoppage of Australia's supplies of petrol from overseas. In such a catastrophe we should be largely dependent upon the State and Commonwealth railways, which could be operated by coal, supplies of which are obtainable throughout the States. 
It is not right that members of the various political parties in this Parliament should have to get news relating to war activities through their own leaders. Those leaders are not in a position to inform members as to the full gravity of impending dangers, and I believe that at some stage it will be desirable to hold a secret session of this Parliament. Then the members could be told the full story, and they could be depended upon not to make improper use of the information supplied to them. I do not share the fear of conscription of industry. 
The fear has been expressed that, under the present bill, the Government might prevent the operation of industrial awards, or tell workmen to leave one job and take up another. Had I been Prime Minister, I should have accepted the amendment proposed in the House of Representatives by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  and I suggest that honorable senators could support such an amendment in this chamber without weakening this bill. Another form of protection for unionists is contemplated. I believe that trad*union panels would prove valuable, despite the present hold-up in that regard owing to the fact that a large number of unions desire representation upon them. 
I have yet to learn why the Government did not carry out its expressed intention to appoint an ambassador to Japan. An effort should have been made in that direction. If Australia has antagonized that country, the blame cannot be laid at the door of the Opposition. 
I commend the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Poll)  and the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Hughes)  for their effective handling of the enemy within. I am glad that this work has not been delegated to military officers, but that the services of the efficient State police forces are being used. The police know who are aliens, and do not act harshly towards innocent people, many of whom are probably as loyal as any member of this Parliament. I hope that the Government will take care that only trained detectives are employed in this work. This, I understand, is the present practice. There are 80,000 aliens in Australia, including 27,000 Italians. We can well imagine how we should be treated if we were living in an enemy country at the present time; therefore a constant watch should be kept on all aliens. 
I visualize Australia being eventually protected by a large number of fighting aeroplanes, and we should never relax our efforts to have these machines built, as far as possible, in our own country. Certain metals required for their manufacture may be unobtainable at the present time, and substitute metals may have to be used, but every honorable senator believes that Australian workmen are capable of doing this job. The Government has undertaken an enormous task in trying to place Australia on a war footing within a year, and no doubt mistakes have been and will be made. 
The members of the Opposition are members of a great national party. The people who sent us here are anxious that we shall see that their lives and homes are safeguarded, and that is my principal concern. Therefore, it is imperative that we should support this bill. If the Opposition were in office to-day it would need all of the powers now sought by the Government. I should like to see this measure being administered by a Labour government. Some day the Opposition will be in power, and I hope that, when that time comes, the dreadful conditions now being experienced will have passed. In my opinion, the proposed trade-union panels will be helpful to both the workers and the Government. The promises given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  with regard to the National Security Act were honoured, and I believe that his undertakings in regard to this amending measure also will be honoured. But if they were not, would the leaders of the trade unions allow their men to be victimized ? Of course not. 
The trade unions have always stood firmly against victimization of any kind. The Australian Labour party stands behind the Government 100 per cent. Small sections in the various States, whose representatives we have in this chamber, will try to make themselves out to be the saviours of the workers by opposing this bill, but I am prepared to support it on any platform, telling the people that it is on all fours with the resolution of the special conference of the Australian Labour party. Some doubt has been expressed regarding the value of the amendment submitted in the House ofRepresentatives. A similar amendment will be moved in this chamber, and, in the event of its being defeated, Labour men will jealously watch to see that the rights of the people are not abrogated. If we are not satisfied with that, at a time when the very existence of the Empire is threatened, we are not big enough to hold our seats in this Parliament. The federal conference of the Australian Labour party is attended by six delegates from the rank and file in each of the States. I am not interested in sectional movements that may occur in various States. The Australian Labour party has spoken; it has issued a mandate to Labour men in the Commonwealth and State Parliaments. My Leader  (Senator Collings)  has read that decision, and it substantially conforms with the proposal submitted by the Government. We must stop the rule of violence, in order to save what we have achieved in this and other parts of the Empire. I support the bill whole-heartedly, and urge that, even at this late hour, the amendment to be submitted by the Opposition be accepted. 
On Monday last, a conference of the Victorian Labour party was held, and the matter of granting additional powers to the Commonwealth Government was discussed at length. The delegates numbered 200 or more, and they knew exactly what the Government intended to do. As they had listened to the speech broadcast by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  the decision reached was not a hasty one, but was arrived at in full light of the facts, and after long discussion. The following resolution was adopted :  - 
That for the purpose of achieving full and complete defence of Australia in this war, delegates be instructed to vote for the following alteration to our existing defence policy: - 
1 ) That the ownership and control of pro ductive and financial organizations be vested in the Commonwealth to be employed for national purposes requisite for the defence of the Australian people. 
That to secure maximum productive  efforts, all idle employable labour be absorbed into industry. 
The establishment of air ports and  depots with necessary supports at strategical points inland and on the coast and coastal surroundings. 
Participation in the Empire Air Scheme. 
No raising of military forces for service  outside the Commonwealth other than is necessary in the land and waters adjacent to Australia and New Zealand for the strategical defence requirements of the Commonwealth  and New Zealand. 
) In view of the Government's declared policy that there will be no conscription for overseas service, the plank for the deletion from the Defence Act of all clauses relating to compulsory training and service stand in abeyance for the duration of the present war. 
That resolution was carried after a full discussion during which delegates were informed of the incomplete nature of the 
Government's .plans. Reports had been received from various workshops and annexes, and the delegates were in a position to know the delay which has occurred in carrying out certain essential work. They also knew from the Prime Minister's speech, the additional powers which the Government intended to seek under the bill which we are now discussing. Subsequently, on Tuesday last, a federal conference of the Australian Labour party adopted the resolution which was read by  Senator Collings.  I am committed, as he is, by the terms of that resolution. Even if this measure be passed, as I suppose it will be, international events, rather than any law which may be placed on the statute-book, will determine the Government's future policy. That is really what has happened to-day; events are master of the situation. If it were not for the events which have occurred during the last few weeks, this measure would not have been presented for our consideration. Included in recent events is the tragic disclosure of the unpreparedness, not only of the Commonwealth Government, but also of the British Government. Events determine the policies of all governments. The British and Australian Governments have taken too much for granted, and have assumed that they were much stronger than they actually are. These governments have refused to accept tho advice that has been offered to them. We are now faced with the most serious position in which Australia has ever been placed; but years ago the members of the Labour party directed attention to what should have been done. I make that assertion not with a desire to score at the expense of the Government, but solely in order to emphasize that events which have occurred with such tragic and devastating suddenness %have brought about a state of awareness which I trust will raise us to greater heights and enable us to face fully and completely the situation now confronting us. These events annihilate false ideas and dilapidated and decadent institutions. In the past, war has had that effect, and it is having it again. Practically every school of thought sees the result of war, and what it means to civilization. Whether wo like it or not, we shall have to re-organize our internal economy, and the first thing to be done in that direction is to secure national control of all essential land industries and services. Without such control, we cannot, by any procedure, give effect to a national policy worthy of the name or of a defence policy which will enable us to survive. If there is to be, as there is and has been, divided control of our national resources, so that the Government has to plead on its bended knee for loans for war purposes, we cannot hope to succeed. Apart from the time and expense involved in this state of affairs, is the Government likely to be able to give effect to a national policy worthy of the name? The present system could not possibly continue to operate if the danger becomes even more acute than it is to-day. If the enemy were at our doors and the firing of guns could be heard, there would be no suggestion of advertising war loans or the issue of war savings certificates, because the Government would take control of all our resources in the interests of the nation. We should endeavour to benefit by experience and to make some worthy effort. Included in national services is banking. At a time such as this, we cannot allow private banking institutions to dictate to the Government or to the people as to the way in which money or credit shall be made available to the nation. The Government, through the Commonwealth Bank, must control all banking activities. There are also non-essential industries and services which should be closed down immediately. For instance, there are advertising, insurance and other agents performing work which is unnecessary at this juncture. If we are to organize the maximum effort, such services should be discontinued. If they be permitted to continue, hundreds ot thousands of men so engaged will not be rendering a more useful service to the community. If we are to make the best use of the man-power and of the resources at our disposal, I say emphatically that non-essential industries and services must close down. In war-time, economy must be on a war-time footing, and we cannot afford, to repeat the hackneyed phrase, to continue " Business as usual ". In the present circumstances business cannot be conducted as usual; it must be transacted more effectively than in the past. If that were done, production would be increased to the maximum, and we should not be concerned because we have a carryover of 60,000,000 bushels of wheat. 
I was about to say that we should congratulate ourselves that we are in such a fortunate position. In these circumstances we should not consider for a moment removing men from the land, but should allow them to grow wheat even if we cannot use it immediately. It would be infinitely better to have a surplus of meat, wheat, wool and other primary products rather than continue to restrict production. If non-essential services and industries were closed we would have an immense reserve of labour power at our disposal to increase production to the maximum. We must also encourage consumption of foodstuffs and endeavour to raise the living standards of those who have to work and to fight. To-day there are 20,000 men knocking at the door of the Maribyrnong munitions works seeking employment, and thousands in the other States are similarly placed. A great majority of those men and their families are not receiving sufficient food and clothing, but their needs could be met without inflicting any hardship on any individual or without impairing the national effort It could be done by increasing production to the maximum and increasing consumption to a degree compatible with the maintenance of the proper health of the community. We should then have the necessary margin to assist us to meet our supreme war-time effort. I know that the task is difficult. It has been said that our difficulties are almost insurmountable; but the situation with which we are faced is not impossible. Those responsible will, I trust, rise to the occasion, because, as I have said before, the strongest bond of unity between man and man is danger faced in common. The danger is imminent, and it becomes more so as the position develops. 
I made a similar speech on that occasion. We cannot expect to succeed under the present system of divided control. All our essential land industries and services must be under the direction of the central authority. Frequent reference has been made to the formation of a national government. We cannot have a national government that is responsible to private interests. That is the fundamental point. A national government that is true to name should be responsible to the people as a whole and not to any section. That is just where we part company. Honorable senators opposite are responsible to private financial institutions. The Labour party can never agree to participate in the formation of a national government when it knows that such  a  government, for all practical purposes, is subordinate to vested interests. My objection to the proposal is that the Labour party should not accept responsibility without power. If the Labour party participated at this stage in the formation of a so-called national government responsible to vested interests, it would be held responsible for what that government did, but it would have no power to improve the present position. However, if it attained power by joining a national government we should have no objection to accepting responsibility in such a government. Let us look at thu position which developed overseas. It should be apparent to honorable senators that, as the result of divided control, and the conflict between private interests before the outbreak of war, Great Britain was not in a state of preparedness. That Government did not have its disposal the information necessary in order to enable it to maintain a strong stand against a common enemy. Now, however, after incalculable damage has been done, and hundreds of thousands of lives have been lost, we read in the press that it  it  making the efforts that should have been made long before the war commenced. I say to the Commonwealth Government in all sincerity that if it will be convinced by the lessons of the immediate past, and will operate on the lines- 1, have suggested to make the Government supreme and not subordinate- to private interests, it will do much better in the future than it has done in the past. 
I now propose to deal with industrial conscription. Many supporters of the Government think that if the wages of the workers be reduced almost to the irreducible minimum,, the workers will give of their best. Representatives of the Government say that we shall have industrial conscription, which means that men will be employed at peace-time occupations under military control and at military rates of pay. If such a policy be adopted the Government will not get the best results from the workers. When we were discussing the proposed trade-union advisory panel, I said to the Prime Minister r " If you want the best results from the men and women whom we represent, then you must be prepared to do the very best you can in return. There must be reciprocity; all of the sacrifice must not be on one side". If honorable senators opposite can convince the average worker in every sphere of industry in this country that the Government is doing a fair thing by him, and will continue to do so, we shall not need to drive the workers to make them give of their best. The workers realize that the danger to this country is great and they will respond readily in order to increase production, and will improve our present position in this respect beyond all recognition provided they are treated justly. It has not been denied that under this measure the Government will be given power to enforce industrial conscription. Members of the Government have said that the Government intends to do so. 
Exactly what I explained a few minutes ago. Apparently the honorable senator was not 1 listening 
It matters everything. Does the Government want to secure the best results from our workers I Does it want to  Bee  the economy of. this nation organized on a basis which will enable us to defend this country! Does it want to see the present position improved, or does it want to perpetuate the mistakes: it has made in the past? This problem matters everything to the workers of this country. If the Government does not treat them fairly it will not get the best results from them. It must treat them as free men, and convince them that it intends to do the best by them. Once the workers have that assurance from the Government they will give of their very best. 

 Senator ARMSTRONG (New South 
Wales) [12.37].- I oppose the bill. Its effect is to remove certain safeguards which were provided in the National Security Act. Honorable senators will remember that when we were dealing with the national security legislation the Government, at the request of the Labour party, agreed to provide three safeguards in that measure: First, that there would be no conscription for overseas service; secondly, there would be no industrial conscription; and, thirdly, civilians would not be subjected to military tribunals. That request was granted by the Government of the day which believed that the case put forward by the Opposition was such that those safeguards were not only desirable but also necessary. The principal object of this measure, however, is to remove two of those three safeguard* The third, which will remain - although I wonder for how long - is that there shall be no conscription for service overseas. Industrial conscription can now be introduced at the will of the Government. Before I conclude my remarks I shall prove that attempts have already been made by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited to introduce industrial conscription in its undertakings. In addition, we find that civilians will now be subject to military tribunals. I had an opportunity to listen to the debate on this measure in the House of Representatives, and I heard the honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Blackburn)  prove beyond all doubt that under this legislation labour can be conscripted, whereas property cannot be conscripted without compensation. The only thing  that can be conscripted without compensation will be labour. As I am confident that the rank and file of the workers and the trade unions have done everything asked of them by this Government, I can see no necessity for this measure. The position would be different if we were facing a situation similar to that which confronted Hitler when he said that Germany was short of man-power. Under such conditions I could understand the necessity for this Parliament to consider some proposal to conscript man-power in industry in this country. However, in Australia to-day we have over 100,000 men who are anxious and willing to work, but to whom the right to work is denied. Important defence works are crying out to be done, yet no effort is made to undertake them. In New South Wales we find many works of this class on which untrained labour could be employed immediately. We have only a thin ribbon of road connecting our two most important capitals. This highway would be practically useless for defence purposes. In addition, the railway connexion between Sydney and the Blue Mountains consists of a single line which crosses a narrow bridge over the Nepean River. Both this line and the bridge could be easily destroyed by an active fifth columnist. If we were obliged in an emergency, which I hope will never arise, to evacuate civilians from Sydney, we should be in a hopeless position. Our thousands of unemployed could be engaged immediately in constructing important arterial roads and bridges which are obviously necessary for the better defence organization of this country. Only within the last month or two the Government announced its decision to construct a graving dock in Sydney Harbour. All along this work has been considered urgent in order that suitable dock accommodation might be available for capital ships visiting Australia. Although the Government has only now made up its mind on the matter, it has given no encouragement to the Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney which has offered to carry out this work. That authority has available the necessary machinery, valued at over £500,000, whilst its employees number over 3,000. During the last few months, because of the refusal of the Commonwealth Government to approve of the flotation of loans by the board in order to enable it to carry out certain works, this authority has been obliged to dismiss many of its employees. Despite the serious delay which has already occurred in connexion with this project, the Government still seems incapable of coming to a decision on the board's offer. 
In no instance have the workers of Australia refused to do anything asked of them by the Commonwealth Government. Indeed, within the last week, 200 men employed by the Westinghouse Company in Sydney sent a deputation to the manager of that company and told him that if their services were not utilized in defence work they would down tools and seek employment where their labours would be applied to the war effort. No one appreciates more than the working man the danger that now confronts Australia. Nobody realizes more than he does that this war is going to be won in our factories and by the workers and the trade unions. Consequently no necessity for industrial conscription exists. 
I say so ; and the Prime Minister himself admitted in the course of his remarks in the House of Representatives that the conditions of the workers must necessarily undergo a change. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator is not in order in referring to a debate of the current session in the House of Representatives. 
No demand has yet been made upon the working class organizations of this country by the Government, because, apparently, the Government has not yet engaged an officer capable of co-ordinating national works, and of directing workers of different classes into channels where they can be. enabled to give their best services in the defence of this country. I had an opportunity within the last ten days, in company with other members of this Parliament, to visit munitions works and annexes in Sydney and its suburbs. 1 cannot understand the mentality of a Minister who invites a body of men, possessing ordinary powers of observation, to make such an inspection when the sad state of affairs which we found existing in these works prevails. Wo went first to the annexe at the establishment of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. We found it to be one of the most active of these annexes; operations were stepped up for that particular day in order to make a good showing for our benefit. 
I know more about this particular annexe than does the honorable senator. Perhaps he does not know that it has a shell examination section. In that section we found half a dozen men, but they did not have one shell to examine. What were the men there for? They were there solely to give an appearance of activity and to create in the minds of those making the inspection the impression that something was being done. I am not blaming the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. I was at the annexe on the Saturday before the inspection was made, and the sentiment expressed to me by the employees was " Why should we worry about these things? Over the road we have one of the greatest engineering plants in Sydney, and we would like to be engaged on the production of guns, tanks and other things that will really matter in this war". I repeat that I do not blame this company for the lack of activity. I blame the Government for the lack of direction. We also found about 100 men outside the sugar company's annexe waiting for jobs. 
 -Apparently  Senator Arthur  counted them, but I know that there were at least 100. They were gathered outside the annexe in the hope that they would be given work. 
We then went to Waterloo and once again, there was a superficial show of activity. A large amount of German machinery was installed, but obviously it had scarcely been turned over. About 
How  Senator Dein  can dispute that is beyond my comprehension. In the factory owned by Duly and Hansford Proprietary Limited - not that portion engaged on defence work - members of the inspection party were interested to see the kind of labour employed by engineering firms in Sydney. Whether the employees of that organization are typical of others I cannot say, but I sincerely hope that they are not. The ages of the lads were such that I would have been ashamed to take any one /rota another country around the factory to see what we allow to be done in Australia. 
The party found that the most active of the annexes was that owned by R. B. Davies and Company Limited. There the activity was intense, and apparently the output was considerable, but unfortunately there is a sad story behind that organization also. Something must be wrong with the production system, because information conveyed to me last week was that of 600 grenades examined, 300 had to be rejected because of faulty construction. 
We then went to the annexe of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, and found that the soldiers guarding the works outnumbered the workers themselves. 
There was a corner cottage which must have held 30 and at least ten or twelve were on duty. There were not so many workers on the job. 
We then went to Chullora to see if there was any evidence of aircraft manufacture, and once again we found that there was a facade of activity - an outward appearance of work in progress. We saw 30 or 40 young fellows standing at benches and giving an impression of activity and purposeful movement; but when some of these young men were quietly questioned, it was revealed that they were only practising with the tools. There was no production of any kind. One young man at a bench was making intricate patterns on metal. He was asked what part he was making and he said, " This is for nothing at all. I am just getting some practice with this tool ". All this preliminary work should have been done six or eight months ago, and it would have been done but for negligence on the part of the Government. 
I blame one thing only - lack of direction on the part of the Government. That is the outstanding reason. 
The party then went back to Eveleigh workshops and we saw a scene which obviously had been specially staged for our benefit. Half of the area occupied by the annexe was not in operation, and there was activity in the other half. In that section we saw machines being operated in a businesslike way, but the actual result of the work which had been going on for at least a fortnight was no more than 60 shells. We were delayed at Eveleigh on an inspection of various other sections not connected with defence work, and half an hour later we returned through the works. Other members of the inspection party had gone, and although the time was only 4.30 p.m. half of the men had left the machines. 
To be perfectly frank, my impression after the visit was that if the annexes were worked to their full capacity, the munitions which they produced would be insignificant in proportion to Australia's requirements. In fact, they would be only a drop in the ocean of our needs. We have now reached the state when our defence work must be of some real value. There is no need to conscript the men and women in the factories, and make them work for longer hours on jobs which they do not want to do. The workers are ready to do their bit, and to undertake their share of the national burden of defence, but there are also 100,000 unemployed workers who are prepared to do likewise. It is deplorable that, in a time of national crisis, when 40,000 men have enlisted for service overseas, 100,000 men are out of work. It is a tragedy and an indictment of those who are in control of the Government to-day. If it is deemed necessary to switch men fromone occupation to another, that should be done. In Sydney to-day, and no doubt in other capital cities, there are many thousands of men whose training as artisans would be of wonderful value to the defence of Australia, but they are wasting time on jobs which have no value whatever. If some controlling authority were to send these men to jobs which are of some real use in the defence of this country, they would be happy to do the work and the country would be glad to have them do it. I have before me an article published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in connexion with the conditions of munitions manufacture in Great Britain. I believe that the statements made in this article with regard to Great Britain can be applied to the position in Australia. The article reads - 
The original British Expeditionary Force was sent away largely with re-conditioned artillery from the last war. Even the schools of artillery in England were left short of guns to equip them. 
That is precisely the position which we are facing here to-day. "We sent away many field pieces to Palestine with our Sixth Division. 
I am merely* trying to stir to life some of the honorable senator's associates. I live in an industrial area, and I know where the first bombs will fall. The first targets will be the waterfront areas of Pyrmont and Darling Harbour, where the munitions annexes are, and highly industrial districts, but the Government has taken no steps to see that these areas and the workers in the munitions factories are protected. The war has been in progress for nine months, and the map of Europe has been radically changed, but what has the Government done ? It has merely erected a mausoleum - outside, glittering granite, but inside, only rottenness and decay. It is the job of the Labour party to bring to the notice of the people of Australia the rottenness and decay in our war effort. The Prime Minister has talked over the air and at meetings about what the Government is going to do. He has told us what is going to happen next week, when two shifts will be worked, or the week after when three shifts will be worked. I ask the right honorable gentleman and his colleagues to tell us what has already been done in the defence of this country. The fact is that the Government has fallen down on the job. It dreams only of the future; but we have now reached the stage when immediate action is imperative. My job. to-day is to endeavour to see that that action is taken. 
And provide a scapegoat for the Government's mistakes? If a minority of Labour members were admitted to the Cabinet they would be outvoted, but it would be claimed that they were party to whatever mistakes were made. 
I do not know what happens in the Cabinet today. I am merely drawing attention to what would assuredly happen should Labour join the Government. A national government would enforce industrial conscription, and the next step would be conscription for service overseas. For both Labour would have to accept a share of the responsibility. That is why Labour will not support a national Government. 
The article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  continued - 
There is still disturbing evidence of continued inefficiency and obstructiveness at Whitehall, where, although certain ministers have been removed, the old Civil Service cliques which are equally responsible for the mistakes of the last nine months remain. 
That accusation could justly be applied to Australia. The men directing our war effort are entangled in red tape, and they must be removed. Let us send them to Alice Springs for the duration of the war and six months thereafter. Remove those impeding forces that are tying up the war effort of this country with red tape. The  Sydney Morning Herald  went on to state - 
The working men in the factories and the soldiers, to the best of their ability, are making the nation ready to face the coming battle. 
That is precisely the position that obtains in Australia. At least two sections of the people here are doing their part - the Australian Imperial Force and the workers.  Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2 p.m. 
My next reason for objecting to this measure rests upon the fact that the Government will no longer control those things which the Opposition would prefer to be under its control - Arbitration Court awards governing the conditions and hours of labour in our industrial establishments, which the trade-union movement of this country has secured for the workers. All these matters will, in future, be controlled by leading industrialists of Australia. 
No. It is a plain statement of what will happen in this country. In this morning's issue of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  there appears a statement from its Canberra correspondent that the Prime Minister had announced the Government's plans for the organization of the Munitions Supply Department under the DirectorGeneral,  Mr. Essington  Lewis. The Prime Minister added that  Mr. Lewis  would be assisted by certain other leading industrialists. 
 Mr. Lewis  may be assumed to know something about organization of industrial effort. 
We believe also that material benefit will be given to these industrial leaders, whose names I have mentioned, if, during the progress of this war, they can introduce into Australian factories and workshops a greater proportion of female and child labour. If, unhappily, that is allowed to happen, we shall find at the conclusion of this war, as we found at the conclusion of the last war, large numbers of women and children working in places where formerly men were employed. It is the duty of my party to see that that does not happen and to do all that is possible to circumvent any move in that direction. Under military conscription, the authorities must at least wait until a youth is eighteen years of age. Under this form of industrial conscription, men who will control the destinies of the workers of this country may do almost as they please. In future, they will be able to conscript industrially all persons over the age of fourteen years. 
I have already mentioned the claim for holiday pay made by employees of Duly and Hansford Proprietary Limited of Sydney, many of whose employees should still be at school, and in receipt of suitable and nourishing food, instead of working under conditions which must seriously impair their health. In to-day's Sydney  Daily Telegraph  there appears a report of a complaint made on behalf of the employees of this firm. They state that they were ordered to work on Monday last, which was an official holiday, because the factory is engaged in the manufacture of 'munitions. It was understood that they would receive holiday pay. The newspaper report stated - 
The 500 employees were asked by the firm to work on a holiday. They turned up for work, but only 10 of them were put on munitions making. The others turned out motorcar parts for the firm. There is no indication yet that they are to be paid overtime. When the Governor, Lord Wakehurst, inspected the factory, the employees were all working on munitions whilst hu was there. Tools which  ware  used in the making of munitions were scattered about the workshops. Yesterday the  Daily Telegraph  tried to submit these mutters to  Mr. Duly,  a senior member of the firm, but lie refused to be interviewed, and through an office assistant statoil that he would not supply any information. 
Let me take this matter a step further. Within the last three weeks., an application was made in the New South Wales courts by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited whose managing director,  Mr. Essington  Lewis, is now .Director-General of Munitions Supply, for permission to allow its employees to work on Sundays at ordinary rates. Last week, that application was withdrawn. Would honorable senators like to know the reason for that withdrawal? It is to be found in the provisions of this bill. When this measure has been passed, there will be no need for the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited to make application to the court for permission to work its employees on Sundays at ordinary rates of pay. This bill will give to the industrialists power to compel employees to work on any day. That is one reason why we are opposing it. 
During the nine months of the war, we have heard much of the  Goverment's  intentions to organize Australia on a war footing, and a number of bills to that end have been submitted to this Parliament. It must, however, be apparent to most people that all this display has been so much window-dressing. The compilation of the national register was supposed to be for the purpose of facilitating the preparation of categories of citizens according to their suitability for various occupations. We were told that, at the first sign of conflict, the men in these various categories would be drafted to those occupations for which they were fitted, in order that there should not be any waste of effort. But has the national register been used to any extent? 
By this time, if the Government had properly used its powers under war-time legislation passed by this Parliament, we should have seen sustained activity in shipbuilding and other heavy industries. We might even have expected to see establishments working on the manufacture of tanks. But apart from the construction of two boom defence vessels, little has been  done at Cockatoo Island" Dockyard, which has all the facilities for the construction of cargo vessels of 10,000 tons.  Mr. Joe  Brown, the secretary of the Balmain Ironworkers Federation, informed me that in the last six weeks he has had a longer list of unemployed ironworkers in the Balmain section than even during the depression years. I know that the position is as stated, because I have these men coming to me day after day to inquire whether they can be employed at either Mort's Dock or Cockatoo Dock. They are anxious to get on with the job of working for Australia's defence. 
The 1920 Law Reports of the House of Lords record that in 1919, the liquidators of the firm controlling De  Keyser's  Royal Hotel Limited, applied to the Imperial Government for compensation from the Crown in respect of land and buildings taken possession of by the Crown for use by the Royal Air Force since 1916. The decision of the Judicial Committee of the  House  of Lords was that the Government could not take plant or property for use without compensation. It appears to me that the same arguments may be employed in respect of any action which may be taken by the Commonwealth Government under this amending bill. The judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council stated - 
Neither the public safety nor the defence of the realm requires that the Crown should be relieved of a legal liability to pay for .the property it takes from one of its subjects. The recognized rule for the construction of statutes is that, unless the words of the statute clearly so demand, a statute is not to be construed so as to take away the property of a subject without compensation. 
It is definitely laid down that the Government will be unable to conscript wealth and property without reasonable compensation of the persons affected. This was admitted this morning by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  in the House of Representatives in answer to a question by the honorable member for Cook  (Mr. Sheehan).  Whether the Government itself uses this wide power, or whether it is used by the Director-General of Munitions and those associated with him, somebody will exercise it. The point is that the only persons who can and will be conscripted are the workers. This bill removes certain rights of the individual that were safeguarded under the principal act, and it will now be possible for a civilian to be court martialled. I see nothing to prevent a work- man who objects to a particular kind of industrial conscription being court martialled. The workers may find themselves living under worse conditions than those experienced in Germany. 
This Government is not a fit custodian of such wide powers as those conferred by the bill. If the Government had given proof of its fitness to exercise totalitarian powers, I might have felt inclined to trust it with the further powers now sought, but the fact is that it has fallen down on the job of preparing for the defence of Australia. I shall not be a party to granting it any extension of power, because it has already abused the authority that it now possesses. 
To me it is a matter of deep regret. and, in fact, distress, that at such a time, and on such a measure as this the cloven hoof of partyism should have obtruded itself into this debate from three angles. The fate of our Empire, which has stood for the advancement of civilization and' the uplifting pf humanity, is trembling in the balance. In the great democracy of New Zealand wider powers than have obtained under any other regime have been given to a Labour government. When the republic of France has been practically disintegrated, when its people are flying before the human monster that is pursuing them, when women and children are without food, when Europe is faced with the probability of a famine next winter, when, millions of our fellow creatures face the prospect of suffering the tortures of hunger followed by pestilence that may well devastate the oldest civilizations in the world, we sit here and find fault with each other's actions in the political arena! This day should be one of atonement for all of us. 
For over three years, I have heard certain honorable senators opposite, who now lay charges against the Government, refuse to collaborate with the Government in order to regulate industrial conditions and increase the output of munitions. Although, in its broader issues, the defence, policy of the Government is not my policy, I stand behind those who are for Australia, and [ share with  Senator Keane  the view that, if we are not able to protect our people from the devastation that threatens us, we are unworthy to hold our seats in this Parliament. I compliment  Senator Keane  on his manly and wholly British utterances, because we stand as a democracy to defend our people against all wrong. That is the main purpose of this Parliament. At a time like this, we should not have certain honorable senators telling us that the Arbitration Court is not functioning in .the right way, or that only ten tuen were employed out of 400 who were summoned. These things are as the twittering of the sparrows in the trees when considered in relation to the crisis that now confronts our Empire. 
I contend that we should have had an impregnable navy, and then we should not have been in the unhappy position in which we find ourselves to-day. A few minutes ago the news came over the air that the Roosevelt Administration is taking into its ranks, in the hope of forming a national government, two leading republicans. Why? The reason is that the United States of America, with its population of 120,000,000, has fears for the future. A portion of the American fleet is now off the coast of South America to prevent uprisings in Uruguay. This is more than a world war; it is a world crisis. We must win, and we will win, but we have to bend every effort to the task. 
To those who criticize this bill because it gives to the Government plenary powers, I say that they are admitting themselves to be incompetent to defend the people in this chamber and elsewhere. If an injustice were done to an individual - not in a trifling matter, but when a principle was involved - I should join with  Senator Keane  in saying that such a point was capable of amicable adjustment. Surely we are relinquishing the powers which we claim to have if we say that we are unable to tell the Government when it is not dealing fairly with the people. We consider that it is essential to adopt this totalitarian measure, because the German machine is operating under extraordinary and emergent conditions. Does Germany or Italy ever pause to act, when men or munitions are needed % If we are to fight a machine, we cannot do so by words. The time for talk has passed; the moment for action has arrived. Australia, with its small population, will be in greater danger than probably any other part of our great Commonwealth of Nations if the great British fleet should meet with misadventure. Should we hesitate to do what is necessary to implement the powers of the Government in every possible way! 

 Senator Keane effectively disposed of the speech by  Senator Amour,  which was merely intended to embarrass those who sit on the same side of the chamber as himself but who are not now his allies. That speech was designed to put certain members of the Opposition in the wrong with their electors. The answer is that fifteen or sixteen men on the Opposition side will continue to be able to voice the complaints of the workers if they should be ill-treated, and on the Government side are eighteen or twenty honorable senators who can voice complaints from all quarters. Underlying  Senator Amour's  remarks is a denial of democracy, because this Parliament will retain in its own hands the remedy for any injustice. Its doors will not be closed. Some of the matters mentioned in this chamber could be better ventilated at some district council meeting rather than in this national Parliament. 

 Senator Amour stated that a distinguished industrialist had suggested that sufficient white metal for the manufacture of aeroplane engines was not available in Australia. I tell the honorable senator and the Government that in the Dominion of New Zealand the raw material is obtainable, and, with the cheap electrical power available in that dominion, the metals could probably be manufactured there much more cheaply than in Australia. Already a company is operating in New South Wales for the supply of white metal. In Tasmania, aluminium could be produced in large quantities from, tlie deposits of dolomite in that State. One would imagine from the remarks of some honorable senators opposite that because we cannot obtain such materials from the United States of America or from some other country production of munitions in Australia must cease. That is not the position at all. Time may be required to obtain all the metals that we need, but they will he obtained, and production will not be held up unduly on account of them.  Senator Amour,  who also referred to the conscription of labour without compensation, dealt with the subject in a way that would make it appear that the Government's proposals are appalling. I recalled a conversation I had a few nights ago with a lad who is piloting one of those magnificent planes recently imported from the United States of America - unfortunately to be used to destroy human beings - and who receives the magnificent salary of 10s. a day. In reply to some queries I put to him he said, "Yes, we feel a bit sore about it, but we may be working for nothing directly ". That spirit should be more prevalent amongst our people to-day. An eminent banker to whom recently I addressed a question as to how our finances will stand the strain of this war replied, " What does money matter? What becomes of our money, our wealth, liberty, property, and conditions of life? All these things are nothing in comparison with our individual freedom and security ". Money, he said, has been employed to improve the standard not only of those who have more than sufficient of this world's goods, but also the conditions of others not so well circumstanced. Let us consider what is happening in Germany and the conditions to which the people have to submit in order to meet the cost of providing the necessary finance. We know the conditions of our people here and what they are likely to be in the event of this country falling into the hands of the foe. Honorable senators opposite speak of the conscription of labour. If we should fall, those whom  Senator Amour  and  Senator Armstrong  claim to represent are the people who would suffer; they would be like the toad beneath the harrow. When they speak of conscription of labour they seem to suggest that some one is to be murdered. The word " conscription ;" has become a political tag thai is used to frighten the people of Australia. The time may come when we all shall be conscripted, but I hope that if we have to face such a position, we shall go to our doom with the flag of democracy and liberty still flying. It is in that spirit that we should approach the consideration of this legislation. What does it provide? It merely gives to the Government plenary powers to govern this country in the most efficient manner in the national interest. Mistakes have been made, and I suppose mistakes will be made in the future. God knows there are enough mistakes at the feet, of honorable senators opposite. We recall very vividly the conditions which existed in 1930 and 1931 when the party to which they belong stripped Australia of its best military intelligentsia at Duntroon. It is true that the circumstances were exceptional, and the Government of the day was forced to reduce expenditure. Many of its acts were, I believe, performed with great reluctance. Members of the Labour party also refused to support the League of Nations and many other organizations and activities functioning in the interests of international security and liberty. I accept my share of the responsibility, as must every public man; honorable senators opposite must also bear their portion of the blame. But for God's sake let us bury the past and act as one man. Let us get behind the Government ami together put forward our best efforts on behalf of the Empire in the interests of humanity and on behalf of those who have suffered more than I hope we shall ever be asked to suffer. This is a time when we should face the position squarely. We have seen what has happened in other countries, and we have read in the press of the activities of the Austrian monster, whose one ambition is to dominate the whole world and reduce the standard of ail peoples to tha.t of serfs and slaves. Since the days of Magna Charta we have stood for liberty, and now when a determined attempt is being made to inflict upon us :i form of slavery little better than death we must do everything that is humanly possible to protect our country. For my part I would go to my death rather than sec this country fail, in ite duty. Whatever benefits have been conferred upon Germany under the Nazi regime they have been obtained at a terrible cost. The whole of the German press speaks only with the voice of the Minister for Propaganda. Family ties are shattered and espionage is found even in the households of German families. Mothers and fathers do not know to what degree to trust their children, and children do not know whether some glib remark made concerning the Nazi regime may be misconstrued by their parents or some one in the household. A distinguished Chinese writer has written in eloquent terms concerning the domestic life in Germany and all its horrors and how Germans are deprived of the fellowship of even their own families. To conditions such as those we would have to submit should we not be victorious in this great conflict. This is  no  time for party politics or party recriminations; it is a period in our national life when we should go forward as one man and display that spirit which is permeating Great Britain and the United States of America. Let us be one people mid let our cry be, as it was at the inception of federation, " One people, one destiny ". Let us protect that destiny, ,ind work to the best of our ability in cooperation, not only with the great Mother Country, but also with our sister dominions, because only in that way can our safety be assured. 
T remind  Senator Armstrong,  who said that the national register had not been utilized by the Government, that the list of reserved occupations which has proved very useful during recent months was compiled from that register. The information it contains has been most beneficial in connexion with the economic life of this country. It contains other data which have been particularly useful in arranging the disposal of foodstuffs for sale overseas, and in making available the number of fitters and other trained artisans who can be employed in the production of munitions. 

 Senator Brand referred to internment camps, which in my opinion should be removed from the mainland. I had some experience in connexion with the control of such camps in 1914-18, and I think that it would be an advantage if they were removed from the main centres of population. There are some delightful islands on the coasts of Queensland, South Australia, and Victoria where these internees could be accommodated, and in that way prevented from communicating with their people, some of whom may be disloyal. I believe that it was a Minister in New South Wales who said that important information had been transmitted from a novel unlicensed transmitting wireless set. All suspected persons should be interned as far away from the general community as is practicable. I support this legislation wholeheartedly. We should trust, the Government, but unfortunately some honorable senators opposite are not prepared to do so. If they will not trust the Government, they should trust the Parliament of which they are members. I congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane)  upon the splendid British sentiments which he expressed, sentiments which I hope I shall hear repeated in this chamber more frequently. 
This debate is being conducted in the most critical period not only of Australia's history, but also in the history of those countries which form the British Commonwealth of Nations, and at a time when a great democracy is on the point of destruction. That democracy has been associated with Australia in many ways, and we trust that it will be able to survive the great onslaught which is being made upon it by an overpowering adversary. Not long ago the great Australian Labour movement pointed with pride and satisfaction to the fact that the Government of France had agreed to a 40-hour week. The members of the Labour movement passed resolutions congratulating that Government upon the advances which it had made in the interests of the workers. While that was taking place another strong nation, one which had been almost in the shadows of death, was moving in another direction. 
That was the nation we know as Nazi Germany. We saw that country becoming greater and greater, not by the granting of additional privileges to the workers^ but by the destruction of their rights. The trade unions in Germany were driven underground. Thus was built up the vast war machine which, to-day,' threatens all of those things which we hold near and dear. Last Sunday evening, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  made a speech to the nation which was a prelude to the measure we are now considering. On that occasion he made some very pertinent remarks. He said that for the time being, we should put away our dreams of greater social security, greater prosperity, more pay, and peace. Some day those dreams would come true, but at this hour action was what we required. He went on to point a moral to certain sections of the community. He said that the employer must say to himself, " No greater profit can I make " ; and the worker, " No longer can I expect improved conditions." Whilst we do not minimize the urgency of the present crisis, the Labour party does not believe that it is necessary to surrender all of its ideals. It is not necessary to forget, even temporarily, the great principles for which Labour stands. At the very moment when the Prime Minister was making his address to the nation, the Victorian branch of the great Labour movement was holding its annual conference in Melbourne, and was considering the position of Australia as an integral part of the British Commonwealth of Nations in the present orisis.  At that conference were assembled men and women from every sphere of life. They included members of the rank and file and officials of trade unions, farmers', professional men, and business men. They gathered at that conference to discuss the vital problems with which this (301111try is now confronted, and after thoroughly considering them, after restating Labour's principles and examining and re-examining statements of those principles in the past, they decided in. this emergency to hand to the Government powers which, under different conditions, they would never dream of surrendering. If the Labour movement stands for anything, it stands, for the vesting of supreme power in the National Parliament. We have realized from past experience that we shall never be able to give practical expression, to the great ideals of our movement, unless all of the powers now enjoyed, by the State Parliaments are vested' in the National Parliament. The measure now before us which, as our leader has intimated, wu shall support, is framed upon those lines. It may be argued that this involves the surrender of power to the Executive rather than to Parliament.. However, in announcing its willingness to hand over this power to the National Government, the Labour party makes the qualification that certain safeguards should be provided. One of these is full recognition of trade unions in order to guarantee the maintenance of industrial standards, and the participation of  Labour  organizations in the transformation of the nation to a war footing. We also ask that Parliament be consulted regularly. We stipulate those safeguard* because we appreciate the possibility of these powers being abused. I emphasize that we did not simply agree to hand over these powers to the Government. We bore in mind the possibility of these powers being abused by those to whom they are entrusted in the national interest. Indeed, under our system of parliamentary government, the people hand over certain powers to certain persons to do things on their behalf. The people are prepared to do this simply because they know that at the ballot-box they can pass judgment upon those of their servants to whom they entrust their destiny from time to time. Consequently, in granting these powers to the Government we must have the assurance that Parliament will meet regularly in order to enable us to keep a check on the Government's exercise of such powers. 

 Senator Amour and  Senator Armstrong  described certain conditions existing in New South Wales, which they said are unfavorable to the prosecution of our war effort. I have no doubt that honorable senators from each of the other States could give instances of similar conditions. Only the other , day, a winthewar rally was held at Castlemaine, 
Victoria, where one of the most uptodate engineering works in the Commonwealth is situated. That meeting was addressed by the Consul for France at the very moment when the country he represented was being almost obliterated by the enemy. One can imagine the feelings of that man. If the French are noted for anything, it is their love of country and soil. For that reason, we believe that, notwithstanding what is happening in France, the French eventually will defeat the German invader. The French Consul made an appeal to us to stimulate our war effort. He made one suggestion to which I hope the Labour party will never consent, namely, that we should conscript men for service overseas. I do not think that it will ever be necessary, if the cause for which we are fighting be just, to impose conscription on Australians in order to get them to defend their country. In every other respect, however, that gentleman's appeal was most eloquent. During the meeting, the head of the great engineering firm of Thompson and Company stated that young apprentices in his works had come to him and asked to be given work of a defence nature. He replied that he had no war work upon which he could employ them. They were anxious to serve their country in that capacity, and because that privilege was denied to them, they were inclined to join the Australian Imperial Force. A petition has been presented to the Prime Minister by the residents of that locality asking that machinery be installed at these works, in order to enable work of a defence character to be undertaken there. 
-It certainly should be, in view of all the publicity we have read on the subject. Recently, we read in the Melbourne press that 1,000 employees in the Newport workshops waited on their manager, and said to him, " Give us something to do in order to enable us to help in the national defence preparations in this time of trouble ". Nearly twelve months ago I asked certain questions in this Senate with regard to the construction of an annexe at the Newport workshops. 
I wanted to know why it was necessary that a new system should be introduced in the Railway Department for the construction and alteration of buildings. Hitherto, the policy of the Department was to undertake reconstruction work by day labour. However, contracts were to be let for this work, and, when I asked for an explanation of the change, I was informed that it had been made because time was of the essence of the contract, and it was necessary that these buildings be erected with the utmost speed, in order that we might be able to get on with the great work of building aeroplanes and other essential war material. To-day, nearly twelve months after that reply was made to me on behalf of the Government, we find 1,000 employees in that workshop clamouring for work of a defence character. Nothing has yet been done in the annexes in Victoria. Instead of glossing over these matters, and putting ourselves to the greatest trouble in order to find excuses for delays, we should deal promptly with complaints of this kind, and endeavour by all the means in our power to remove every obstruction which would prevent industry in this country from being fully employed on work of an urgent defence nature. That brings me to another point. A great deal of stress has been laid upon the necessity for a national government. The Labour party suggested the formation of a national war council, but we have been told that that would be of no avail. My opinion with regard to a national government is that the mere displacement of some members of the present Cabinet by Labour representatives would not overcome all the difficulties with which  Ave  are faced to-day. Surely those honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives who to-day are entrusted with the Government of this country are striving to the best of their ability to remove the obstacles of which wo have spoken. If Labour joined the Ministry would the elimination of those obstacles follow automatically? I think not. That is where a national war council would come in. A group of individuals conversant with all phases of industry could, as a result of their experience, regiment all the artisans necessary for defence work, and could very soon locate the obstacles which are at present impeding our effort. Inspectors could be appointed to go into the factories and find out where production is being held up. This is a serious matter, and it is of vital importance that the reason for our hitherto slow progress should be found. 
That is a paltry thing to say at a time such as thi3. As I have said, this is a serious matter. Great nations have been and are being destroyed, not only by the enemy without but also by the enemy within. If the Ministers who have been occupying the treasury bench since the outbreak of this war are unable to discover where the hold-up in our defence effort is, how can it be expected that that hold-up will be eliminated merely by the entry into the Government of a few Labour representatives? In the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  we have a practical soldier, who has been through the ordeal of war service, and yet there is dislocation in our military organization. The Minister for Air  (Mr. Fairbairn),  is a pilot of the last war and has a thorough and up-to-date knowledge of flying. Yet he cannot discover where the obstruction is. Young men have offered their services to the Air Force, have been examined and told that they have been accepted; yet they have not been called up. What is wrong with our organization ? Is it that " fifth columnists " are holding responsible positions where they can thwart the efforts of this country? We are told that at this moment Australia is in imminent peril. If that is so, should we not take action while time is yet available? I repeat that the mere transfer of a set of people from one side of the chamber to the other will not solve our difficulty. As we have said all along, the Labour party is prepared to co-operate to the fullest possible degree. I ask honorable senators opposite to believe that. It is not for some smart journalist to try to interpret the soul and aspirations of the Labour movement. Those of us who ire closely associated with that movement know full well for what it is striving. 
 Criticism has been voiced of the wide powers to be conferred upon the Government by this measure. Tt is feared that it means conscription of labour. I como now to the use or abuse of power.  Senator Keane  referred to the creation of industrial panels, and, in that connexion, let us for a moment consider the position of the Australasian Council of Trade Onions. Too frequently we speak of the " A.C.T.U." and that is all we know of it. The Australasian Council of Trade Unions represents every organized industry and the whole of the trade unions of Australia with the exception of Western Australia. To-day it is endeavouring to bring about the creation of industrial panels. Its representatives have discussed with the Prime Minister all aspects of this matter, and I say to honorable senators opposite that if the Government wishes to secure the confidence of the trade union movement in its war efforts, it should create those panels with the utmost speed. It is only natural that the workers should look upon legislation such as this with apprehension, because the people who are to be entrusted with the wide powers have for a long period been regarded by the workers as their natural enemies. The Government has appointed to an important executive position,  Mr. Essington  Lewis,  chairman  of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, which in season and out of season has fought the workers all along the line and endeavoured by every means in its power to keep away from them conditions to which they are justly entitled. In years gone by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited has sent thousands of men to their graves because of the lack of safety precautions in its mines. It wasonlY  because of the organized strength of Labour and the industrial movement, that that company was forced to recognize that its workers had a place in t,h, scheme of things. If good conditions exist to-day in the organization of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited they are wholly the result of the efforts of Labour. Workers do not easily forget these people, and I repeat that if the Government wishes to remove from the minds of the workers the fear that under this legislation they will be industrially conscripted, it must set up industrial panels. The mere passing of this legislation will not eliminate all the trouble. The important thing will be the manner in which the comprehensive  powers we are granting will be used.  Senator Cameron  rightfully reminded the Senate this morning that if the Government wants the  co-operation  of Labour, it must first do certain things, t do not intend to debate this matter further. We have decided to support the bill, and by so doing we shall give to the Executive extreme powers, which we  believe  it should have. In handing over these powers, we ask the Government not to abuse them. We accept the assurance given by the Prime Minister yesterday that it is not the intention of the Government to conscript industrially the people of Australia. That is a sacred promise given to us as the representatives of the people in this Parliament, and I warn the  Government  that that promise must not be broken. If events show that we have misplaced our confidence in the Prime Minister there will be a day of reckoning. We shall play our part loyally and well, and we expect the Government to be just as loyal in honouring its pledge. 
There is just one other reason for  our  support of this measure. The Prime Minister has said that, there are certain obstacles in the way of the Government. That is the answer to the charge of incompetence that has been levelled against the Government, not only by members pf this Parliament, but also by the public generally, by the newspapers, by people who normally are supporters of the Government, and by representative gatherings of business men who have met to discuss this matter. Yesterday the Prime Minister said that the Government had insufficient power to overcome the obstacles. Very well, if this Parliament wipes out the last excuse for the Government's inaction, and the inefficiency of the past continues, the Government will be exposed as the incompetent administration that quite a number of people believe it to be. The passing of this legislation will give to the Government all the power that it desires. It is for the Government now to bring Australia to the state of preparedness in which it should have been long ago. If the Government fails to do that, it must make way for a government which will do it. 
 I listened with interest to the biased protestations made by  Senator Sheehan,  and I am amused  at  the graceful way in which the honorable senator has handed to the Government the powers for which  it  has asked. Actually he has handed over nothing. I believe that  Senator Sheehan  is supporting this bill because he realizes that the people of Australia want this legislation. In .a time such as this we need all the optimism that it is possible to have.  We  are in dire straits. The world is in chaos. I have a good deal of optimism, but it has been severely shaken during the last day or so. When we were summoned to Canberra, I fully expected that by the time we assembled here a much talked of conference at Melbourne would have reached a decision. I had hoped that the conference would have decided to recommend Labour members to join  a  national government. Apparently I was too optimistic. Such a recommendation did not come from the conference. I listened attentively to all of the speeches that have been made in the debate on this bill, and I heard no valid argument against the formation of a national government. Undoubtedly the people of Australia would like to see a national government, and I believe that the decision of the Labour conference was not the decision of the workers. 
I  am quite certain that it was not. . Many thousands of workers throughout  the  Commonwealth are clamouring for  the  formation of a national government. 
No, but they believe that this Government would he materially assisted if it had tha full co-operation of all partial represented in this Parliament. 
Possibly there are. The Leader of thB Opposition  (Senator Collings)  this morning, in reply to an interjection from the ministerial bench, used the phrase, "If yon want us to help you ". Those words were significant. They indicate the attitude of the Opposition. It is as well to remind the honorable gentleman that, in this hour of dire need, the nation, not the Government, looks for the full co-operation of the Opposition in the government of this country. The people expect the full strength of the Labour movement to be exerted in order to ensure our safety. 
1" should expect the basis to he that adopted for the formation of any other coalition government. 
I have no doubt whatever that, in any negotiations for the formation of a national government, the claims of the Labour party would have every consideration 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.And it would have no responsibility. 
If Labour members were sincere they would not quibble over the number of portfolios to be allotted to them. They would freely co-operate with the Government in order to bring this war to a successful conclusion. Since I have been a member of this Parliament I have never heard so .many speeches delivered in direct opposition to a bill which, I feel sure, will be carried almost unanimously when the vote is taken on the second reading. I believe that many honorable senators who have spoken against the measure intend to vote for it; so their speeches were intended for advertising purposes rather than to indicate their real intention. They know that the people of Australia demand that they shall stand behind the Government in this crisis. 
 Senator James  McLachlan confined his remarks chiefly to an examination of the reasons that have prevented the Labour party from joining a national government. The proved incompetence of some Ministers and the criticism that has been levelled against them in Parliament and outside has not enhanced the possibility of the Opposition joining in a national government. I doubt that honorable senators on this side would care to accept responsibility for the misdeeds of this Government since the war started. The bill seeks to amend the National Security Act, which, as some speakers have pointed out, gives to theGovernment almost unlimited power over the people of this country. Many of the regulations that have been promulgated under the present act operate harshly upon sections of our people. I refer particularly to the regulations dealing with censorship of working-class literatureand censorship of broadcasting. But the Government has gone farther than that. It has even repudiated contracts. Under the wider powers which the Ministry is now seeking, its authority will be almost without limit. Proposed new section 13a provides - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in thisact, the Governor-General may make such regulations making provision for requiring-  persons to  to place themselves, their services and their property at the disposal of the Commonwealth. , . . 
Undoubtedly lat n reference  is  to the workers of this country. 
Sena tor  Gibson. -  No ; to every body. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. -Menzies)  in his broadcast speech on Sunday night, said this - 
The employer must no longer says " What extra profit can I make?". He must say, "How can 1 help" my country?". The employee in st n  ho  longer think in terms of new advantages or benefits. He must say to himself, " Am I giving so mdi 0 of  my titime  and Skill and sweat to the service to Australia that I can look a soldier in the eye and be unashamed? " 
The point I want to make is that the Supply and Development Act gives certain protection to the workers of Australia. 
-.~-This amending measure takes away that protection, though it contains the following valuable provision 
Providing that nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition of any form of  compulsory  service beyond the limits of Australia. 
It is well known that owing to its remissness the Government is not able" pro'perly to equip recruits  Who  are offering themselves for military training. I am  not  blaming this Government for its' inability to transport Australian soldiers overseas, because the circumstances are beyond its control. But I fear that when industry  h&amp;g  been mobilized, when sufficient equipment and munitions have been supplied, and when the necessary transport facilities are available, another bill  'Will  bo introduced giving to the Government power  to  conscript the man-power* of Australia" for overseas service. 

 Senator 3-erbebt Hats.-  The Defence Act prevents that from being done'.- 
If the Defence Act- is an' adequate safeguard,- this bill is" a subterfuge and there is no' reason" for the insertion of the1 proviso in proposed new section  1M.  Much publicity has been1 given- to' the inactivity df the annexes in New -South Wales. Since  I  have been a member of this chamber I have seized  every opportunity to refer to the failure of the Government, to take 
Steps  to provide for the proper defence  of  Australia; I visited the annexes in New South Wales last Monday week,  and  I found that the statements made regarding []éiti a are quite true. Last session I pointed out that half a dozen annexes in Sydney were idle. Is this bill Being submitted to cover up the neglect, of the Government to have them put into operation? The excuse of the Government, at all times, in regard to the inactivity df  the  munitions works has een t that a sufficient supply of skilled labour, particularly toolmakers j is unobtainable. The reason for that is that the. Government  is"  reluctant to interfere with monopolies. Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited is making thousands of  new  models of wireless sets every month) and skilled engineers are constantly employed in  tlie  motor industry for the purpose" of producing new models of motor car bodies. Why has this skilled labour not been made use of by the Government? The people would not be* much worse off if they had to go without new models of motor cars and wireless sets until the war is over. A statement appeared in the press recently that a  new  factory, costing millions of pounds'5 is to be established for the" manufacture of munitions, and that  it  will employ hundreds  of  thousands of men and  Women.  I suggest tei the Government that consideration should be given to the claims of New South Wales when the site df this' factory is being selected. Approximately ten men are engaged in the production of munitions in Victoria, to" every one so' employed  in  New South Wales. Tim yearly wages  bill in  Victoria runs into millions of pounds,- compared with £500,000 iii New South Wales, despite the fact that  New'  South Wales is the most highly industrialized State in the Commonwealth, arid produces .90 per cent,  of tlie'  iron,- steel arid coal used in Australia. The State' which I represent has the greatest population, and it also' has the largest number of unemployed. Its people constitute about one-third of the population of the' Commonwealth, and within the State' are to bc found all that is necessary for the economic and successful manufacture of arms and munitions. If the Government contemplated the establishment of coke works, it would not erect them in Victoria and transport the necessary coal from New South Wales. Most of the Government factories in Victoria have been placed on the coast where an enemy could destroy them overnight. We hear a good deal about the need for decentralization, and there is much to be said in favour of establishing munitions factories in inland districts. Three similar communications on this subject have reached me to-day. One is a telegram from the Mayor oE Lithgow. It states - 
Suggest you strongly urge Marrangaroo as site proposed new explosives factory. Every facility available, including adjacent centre large population, on State highway and railway, abundant water, electricity, protected by  hills. 
I have received a second letter on this matter from the Blaxland Shire Council, and a third from the editor of the  Lithgow Mercury.  I urge the Government to have a proper investigation made as to the best site for the proposed new factory. It should be established in the State in which production could be carried on most economically and successfully. It is wrong to manufacture almost the whole of our defence requirements in Victoria. New South Wales, having onethird of the population of the Commonwealth, will be called upon to defray onethird of the expenditure incurred by the establishment of these works; there.fore, it is entitled to greater consideration than it has received in the allocation of defence expenditure. 
Reference has been made to the danger of the workers losing the advantages of award rates and conditions which they have enjoyed in the past. Only yesterday, the secretary of a large union in Sydney told me that; last week the head of a certain firm had informed him that he proposed to call upon his employees to work overtime without pay. The suggestion was offered that a mutual arrangement might be made between the firm and the union. The union was not inclined to agree to the proposal, and the employer replied that, when this bill became law, he would be able to call upon his men to work any hours he cared to impose. 
I hope that the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  when he said that it was not the desire of the Government to break down industrial awards and the living standards of the workers, will be honoured. Although he said that he could not guarantee that those conditions would be observed, he declared that the Government did not wish to see them swept aside. So long as those conditions are observed, the Government can depend upon the full cooperation of the workers. In some factories, the workers are now employed for two shifts of twelve hours each. I point out that many thousands of men who nave been rejected from military service are idle, and are quite capable of working in factories. Would any honorable senator opposite, who has had experience of manufacturing enterprises, say that better work can be obtained by means of two shifts of twelve hours than by three shifts of eight hours? 
 That being so, I ask the Government to introduce three eight-hour shifts in the munitions factories. and thus provide employment for the maximum number of workers. If that were done, the men who are enlisting for war service would have the satisfaction of knowing that their brothers in industry were being assisted to some degree. In cases where there is a shortage of technicians, the workers would not object to any hours that might be arranged. Where only process work is required and there are idle machines, the workers should be employed for three eight-hour shifts instead of two twelve-hour shifts. I trust that the organization of the establishment will be such that three shifts will be worked, as they can be in many sections, and in that way ensure, not only an increased output, but also more satisfaction among the men concerned. I appeal to the Government to give full consideration to the claims of New South Wales when the location of a new factory is being considered. I do not wish to repeat the arguments which I have already advanced in that respect; but I would be neglecting my duty to my constituents if I did not ask that full consideration be given to the claims of New South Wales. 
I declare the National Security Bill an urgent bill. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  put - 
That the bill be considered an urgent bill. 
I would not have participated in this debate but for the fact that certain statements made by honorable senators opposite indicate that there is a complete misunderstanding on their part as to the purpose of the bill. I know that some will say that they have been brought up in the Labour movement, and, having worked within it all their life, know its soul ; but it seems to me that they do not know the soul of the Labour movement, which is much bigger than they believe. Apparently they are so close to the movement that they cannot see the wood for the trees, and in endeavouring to assist those who support the party to which they belong, they are not acting in the best interests of those whom they are supposed to represent. The suggestion of industrial conscription has no foundation in fact. Honorable senators opposite overlook the fact that this measure is necessary to enable the Government to preserve the industrial conditions which have been in force for a number of years.  Senator Ashley  wanted to know whether I thought that the same results could be obtained from two twelve-hour shifts as from three eight-hour shifts. I say emphatically that they cannot. Better results can be obtained if the work is carried out in three shifts of eight hours. In order to provide three eight-hour shifts at the Commonwealth aircraft factory an additional 200 skilled men would be necessary, but at present the men are not available. 
Under this measure the services of the additional men for service in that factory can he secured. A number of skilled men possessing the necessary qualifications for aircraft construction at present engaged in industries which are not essential in war-time could be directed to relieve men who are now working twelve-hour shifts in the Commonwealth aircraft factory, and so enable three shifts of eights hours to be worked. In these circumstances where is the danger of industrial conscription? It means transferring men from non-essential work to defence undertakings. Many skilled artisans who have been employed in factories for many years do not wish to leave their jobs where they are well treated and have made friends; they believe that if they did so, they would be unable to return to their ordinary occupation when the war is over. Under this measure their rights will be preserved, and they will be able to return to their ordinary occupation, when they are no longer required to produce munitions or other defence requirements. Some honorable senators opposite have missed the whole point of this measure. We have been told that  20,000  men have applied for work at the Maribyrnong munitions works and the first thing  1  want to know is whether the applicants were qualified. Of course, I doubt very much whether  20,000  applicants have applied for work of this kind. We know, for instance, that a shortage of  20  per cent, of skilled labour is being experienced in Australia to-day. This measure must be passed in order to enable the Government to secure all of the skilled labour it requires for defence work. 
Every private engineering works in the Commonwealth is crying out for skilled labour, because the competition for such labour is so severe. If I wished to indulge in recriminations,.! could easily explain the reason for this shortage. I could explain, for instance, the opposition offered during the last twelve months to the training of apprentices in these particular trades'. However, I do not wish to go into that phase of the matter. I lay the blame on no one. Every apprentice who knows anything about machines, or is capable of being quickly trained to a certain standard, is needed for the manufacture of ordnance and munitions, of which we must produce as much as possible for our own use, if not for use overseas. Honorable senators opposite have missed the point that this measure is necessary in  order  to protect the rights of workers under the new conditions which will prevail^ particularly workers who will be required to labour for long hours. 
Honorable senators opposite declare that they will not participate in the formation of a national government, because this Government is responsible to outside private interests. I can only describe such a statement as a sample of soap-box oratory. Every one knows that it is untrue. Complaints have also been made by honorable senators opposite because, under this measure, it id proposed to compensate persons whose property is commandeered by the Government for defence purposes. If, for instance, the Government should require to take over my house, I should not object, but; surely, I alone ought not to be picked out of all the property-owners in the Commonwealth and forced to make the sacrifice that would be involved without compensation. It would not be just that I should be obliged to give up my house for nothing. All of us agree that the sacrifices which we must make in this crisis should be shared equally. Consequently, any person whose property, whether it be plant or machinery, is taken over by the Commonwealth should be compensated. Otherwise, such persons would be" obliged to' make an unfair sacrifice.. Under this bill, the Government will be empowered to take over any particular property-11 may be machinery or factories or plant -which it considers essential to our defence programme, but it will be enabled under this legislation to take' over such property at once. It will not be obliged to argue as to what compensation should be payable, and thus be forced to incur a serious delay in it's defence preparations. Under this measure, it will be enabled to say to property-owners: "We want your property, and we shall take it immediately. We shall argue later about the compensation to be paid ". I am aware that some honorable senators opposite object to the payment of compensation to individuals under any conditions. However, I cannot see the justice of that contention. I know that the fact that compensation will be paid to certain individuals under this measure will be used as an argument against the Government, but surely it is only fair play and justice that an individual who is obliged to surrender his property in the interests of the community shall be entitled to ask the community to share his loss. 
Much criticism has been levelled against the Government because of delays incurred in commencing work in certain annexes. I am inclined to think that in most instances the reasons for these delays are well known to those who make such complaints. At the same time, the Government is to a great degree tonguetied in matters of this kind. It is compelled to observe silence, even to the degree that, it cannot lay the blame in the quarters responsible for such delays. It must observe silence for grave national reasons. Let us take one example in this respect. Every honorable senator knows that aeroplanes which we were promised, and which we thought would have been delivered by now, have, owing to the grave rum of events on the other side of the world, been withheld. Similarly, certain parts of machines required for the manufacture of war material, and which were ordered from Great Britain, have been commandeered in Great Britain, because they are more urgently needed there. We know also that machinery and aeroplanes ordered from America, delivery of which was promised before now, have to be given up by us to another part of the Empire where they are more urgently needed than in Australia. In many of these matters, therefore, we shall be obliged to start almost afresh. Probably we shall be obliged to build some of the large machine tools which wo require. We have the skilled labour necessary for this work, and all we need is time. Meanwhile, however, recriminations are indulged in against the Government. If those who make  such  complaints know the reasons for the delays to be legitimate, they should not make attacks upon the Government. Such complaints are usually made simply with a view to gaining some party political advantage. 
I admit that the newspapers are not without blame in that respect. I also admit that if the critics of the Government were as restrained, or as British at heart as the honorable senator, our task in this crisis would be made much easier. The blame for much of this unfair criticism can be placed at the door of newspapers, and some members of this Parliament, as well as certain people who gather in the corners of their clubs and spread rumours that the Government is neglectful of its duty. Such tactics are not fair or British. Take, for instance, the attacks that have been made on  Mr. Essington  Lewis. That gentleman is one of the greatest industrial managers in Australia. The attacks made upon him make me feel ashamed. The conditions enjoyed by employees of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited at Newcastle constitute a model for any employer who desires to give the utmost protection to his workmen. Nevertheless, we hear from time to time, in both this chamber and the House of Representatives, attacks made on this great industrial leader, who as devoting practically the whole of his time to advancing the interests of Australia in the present crisis, without compensation from the Government in any form whatever. 
Tell us something about the watering of capital in his company. 
T followed with interest the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  regarding the measure similar to the one we are now considering, which was piloted through the House of Commons by the Leader of the British Labour party,  Mr. Attlee.  That enactment will have a profound effect upon the legislation of the British Empire as a whole. For the first time in 250 years the people of Great Britain have realized that the only way in which a government can be enabled to function with absolute effectiveness is by taking control of the national credit. However, it is a great pity that we should be almost on our deathbed as a nation before awaking to this realization. The action of the British Government in passing such legislation justifies every statement; which I have made in this chamber during the. last two years. We in Australia are better situated even than the people of Britain to deal with the problem of national credit in relation to national defence. I am familiar with the history of the Bank of England over the last 250 years, so far as its transactions with the British Government are concerned. Indeed, in that respect only are we able to learn anything of the activities of that institution. I have no hesitation in saying that the objective of the Bank of England, since its inception, has been to keep the British 
Empire in financial slavery to itself. Now we find that that power is being taken out of its hands. Honorable senators will recollect what happened in regard to the transfer of the gold reserve of Czechoslovakia. Originally it was transferred to the Bank of England, but later, after the conquest of Czechoslovakia, the bank yielded to the German demand that the money be handed over to the Reich. When a question was asked in the House of Commons as to how such a transaction took place the questioner was told that the Bank of England had no control over the matter, and that the disposal of Czechoslovakia's gold reserve was a matter for the Bank for International Settlements. We know that when the German nation defaulted in the payments of reparations  Mr. Montagu  Norman provided the gold reserve required to start the Reichsbank. Today that bank is flourishing. It is an ironic, fact that Germany to-day derives its financial strength from English gold. I recall that when Germany proposed a Customs Union with Austria, France strongly objected. Eventually, however,  Mr. Montagu  Norman came to the rescue of Austria and, much to the disgust of the French Government, supplied the credits of which Austria was then in need. I attended the great win-the-war rally which was held recently in the Sydney Town Hall. At that meeting I heard the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  make a speech which was full of patriotic sentiment. I clapped him. I also heard the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  give a very fine speech at that gathering. He too was greeted with rapturous applause. 
Yes, in the excitement, I clapped him too. To-day, howover., when I think of the way in which these two Ministers have let down the Australian nation in respect of the Government's financial proposals I should like to put the pair of them in gaol for the duration of the war and for twelve months afterwards. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B.  Hayes). - The time allotted for the second-reading stage has expired. 
Question put - 
That the bil) be now read a second time. 
I move - 
That at the end of proposed new section 13a the following further proviso he added: - " Provided further that in relation to industrial standards variations thereof will not he made without prior consultation with the trades union of the craft or industry affected by the proposed variation ". 
I shall not labour the point because the amendment speaks for itself. A similar provision against industrial conscription, although not in the same phraseology, was inserted in the National Security Act. As that act is now abrogated to a considerable extent by this legislation, honorable senators on this side of the chamber, and, judging from what we have heard, honorable senators opposite as well would like tosee a safeguard inserted. 
. -The Government will not agree to the amendment. It accepts full responsibility for the powers which this legislation confers upon it, and it wants no restrictions or delays. I assure honorable senators that the Government will see that justice is done to all sections of the community in the administration of these powers which have been rendered necessary in order that we may do our utmost to win the war. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber support the general principle of the bill but there is one point on which we disagree, and that is the legal right of the Government to interfere with working standards and conditions now prevailing. The amendment merely asks that the Government shall co-operate with the various industrial organizations. There is no better way to antagonize the industrial movement than by forcing something upon it without first calling its representatives into consultation. I do not agree with the allegations made to-day by certain honorable senators that the Labour party has "sold out" because of its support of this bill. I do not believe that the Government will so abuse the powers conferred upon it by this legislation that the workers of this country will be reduced, to a state of slavery. The Government realizes that if it should abuse these powers to any great degree the industrial workers would not quietly submit. There should be nothing which might; cause friction in this time of emergency. All we ask is that the Government shall add to this clause a proviso providing that no variation of industrial standards may be brought about unless the labour organizations concerned have first been consulted. I shall not deal, as some honorable senators opposite have done, with the formation of a national government, but will confine my remarks to the amendment. As the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has said the defence needs of the nation are urgent. We are passing through a period of great crisis. Never before has Australia faced such grave danger.Were the Labour party in power it would undoubtedly seek powers such as those contained in this measure, and for that reason we do not oppose the bill in general principle. We realize that the Government must have the widest authority in order to discharge its obligations in the best possible manner. 
Honorable senators on this side are fully prepared, and will be so in the future, to give the Government every assistance in the passing of legislation necessary for the adequate defence of this country and the full prosecution of the war. Should the workers be called upon to work twelve hours a day, they would do so willingly, provided the Government did not attempt to break down their working standards. The necessity for unduly long hours has not yet arisen, but it might easily arise in the near future, and, should that be the case, I am confident that Australian workmen would not hesitate to work longer hours in order to provide the munitions and equipment required by the men in the field who might he called upon to fight 24 hours a day. I am hoping that the Government will not attempt to bring about industrial conscription. We have had the Prime Minister's assurance on that point; but governments change and another Prime Minister holding different views may take the place of the present leader of the Government. I have a certain degree of confidence in this Ministry, hut I have not complete confidence in every member of it. I believe that some Ministers would, if they had their way, attempt to interfere with industrial conditions in this country with the view of lowering our present standards. Whatever influence I may have in this Parliament will be exerted to have adequate safeguards inserted in all legislation passed by this chamber. I have in mind a well-known gentleman in the Cabinet who is being boosted by several newspapers with the idea, apparently, of elevating him to the position of Prime Minister. That is one reason why we desire to have this proviso inserted. Our purpose is to safeguard the workers of this country. I feel sure, also, that the carrying of the amendment will ensure closer co-operation between trade unionists and the Government, and thus lead to the best possible results from the Government's war effort. If there is to be co-operation there must also be conciliation. The just claims of the workers must have consideration. I hope that the Government will see its way clear to accept* the amendment. 
I intend to support the bill, but I do not think that the proposed new section 13a goes far enough in relation to the financial position of the Commonwealth. We shall have to face the position sooner or later. There is nothing in this measure to provide that the Government shall make full use of the national credit through the Commonwealth Bank, in the prosecution of its war effort. 

 -(Senator James McLachlan). - The committee is discussing the amendment, not the financial position of the Common wealth. 
Order ! There is nothing in. proposed new section 13a relating to the Commonwealth Bank or any other bank. 
The omission may be unfortunate, but the honorable senator must discuss the amendment. 
No. 
I intend to support the amendment for the reasons given by other hon-  orable  senators of my party. Its insertion will go a long way to ensure cooperation between the workers and the "Government. 
If the honorable senator will read it he will discover its purpose. It provides that before any variation of industrial standards is brought about there shall be consultation with responsible trade-union officials. A few moments ago  Senator Leckie  complained of a 20 per cent, shortage of craftsmen in certain industrial establishments. This bill gives to the Government power to transfer skilled workmen from one factory to another. Such transfers may involve certain expenditure in respect of  living  conditions, and it is proper that the trade-union officials, whose members are so vitally concerned, should be consulted. The co-operation of trade-union authorities will make for the smoother working of the act and lead to greater efficiency. The Government is asking for the fullest co-operation of the industrial movement. This is one means to secure that co-operation, yet the Minister in charge of the bill has told us that the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment. 
The acceptance of the amendment would, I am sure, be in the best interests of the Commonwealth, because it would make possible the fullest co-operation, and at the same time it would safeguard the interests of the workers. I see no reason for its rejection. 
, - Proposed new section 13a gives to the Government power to make regulations. I should like to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  that the principle to be observed will be the same as that which operates in connexion with men who enlist in the Australian Imperial Force or other services. That is to say, they are given a guarantee that, when hostilities cease, they will be returned to their normal civil avocations without the loss of any of the rights which they would have enjoyed had they remained in those occupations. Under this bill regulations may be promulgated for the transfer of artisans from one trade to another trade in which their services will be of greater value to the nation. It is only right that men who are transferred to an establishment for the making of, say, munitions of war, should when hostilities cease be guaranteed a return to their former occupation and be given any accrued privileges which would have been enjoyed by them had they not been transferred from their normal occupations. I ask for this assurance because even in my own State there is some doubt in the minds of many people as to how far the national regulations apply to men who have enlisted. As I read the regulations they apply to all employers, governmental, semi-governmental, or private. Men who may be transferred from civil establishments to defence annexes should have an assurance similar to that given to men who enlist for overseas service. 
I am not prepared, at this stage, to give a complete assurance in respect of the point raised by the honorable senator, but I assure him that the Government will do justice to all men who may be affected by the regulations. As far as may be possible, their interests will be protected. 
.- I support all that has been said in favour of the amendment. I ask the Minister to take steps to ensure that any regulations issued under this measure shall be made available promptly to honorable senators. 
Question put - 
That the wordsproposed to be added  (Senator Collings' amendment)  be added. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As recently as last month Parliament appropriated an amount of £68,394,000 to cover commitments for war services up to the 31st December, 1940. In introducing that bill, I said that I could give no guarantee that further similar appropriations would not be necessary before December. I also stated that it appeared to be inevitable that further and greater efforts would have to be made, and that Parliament would have to make additional moneys available for war services. In view of recent developments, further financial authority is now sought from Parliament. The purpose of this bill is to provide authority to raise and spend £20,000,000 for war purposes generally. 
In previous loan acts details of the proposed appropriation have been given in a schedule. It is not practicable to give such details on this occasion as elasticity of appropriation is required to meet any emergency. Consequently a wide authority is being sought. 
It will not be necessary to borrow this £20,000,000 for some little time. "We have  ample  loan funds available at present and will use them as required for war purposes - subject, of course, to the appropriations actually approved by Parliament. One of the main purposes to which the money will be devoted is munitions.  Mr. Essington  Lewis, Director-General of Munitions, has made a thorough survey of the position in respect of munitions production, and has submitted plans to the Government for intensifying the production of equipment for war and for defence purposes.  His  plans, which have been considered and approved by Cabinet, provide for the speeding up of all production at present in hand, the opening of new factories for the production of additional types of munitions, an increased range nf weapons and ammunition, and the production of machine tools, as well as for an expanded plan for the training of munition workers. Although Australia has recently greatly enlarged its output of munitions, many of the articles now to be produced have not hitherto been manufactured in this country.  Mr. Lewis's  plans provide for an extensive programme for the manufacture of various types of modern artillery, including, particularly, anti-aircraft and anti-tank guns. 
An immediate objective of the new Munitions Department in connexion with gun ammunition will bc to develop the annexes already established up to the maximum production they can undertake. At the same time, industries not yet engaged in such production will be utilized and developed to the utmost. If necessary, entirely new factories will be built, but that will be decided only if a survey of our existing commercial capacity indicates that it cannot produce all that is required. Briefly, our policy will be to utilize the commercial productive capacity of Australia to the utmost and to expand Government factories or build new ones only when commercial industry cannot be used or adapted. The foregoing remarks relate particularly to gun ammunition production, but the principle is also being applied wherever possible to gun and machine gun production. 
Another important industry which must be developed, although it does not come within the usual meaning of munilions, is the production of the large number of machine tools that will be required for making munitions and for making the tools and gauges that are essential in the production of munitions. The facilities for munitions production already available in Australia, together with the new additions just outlined, will not only provide for the adequate defence of Australia, but" will also afford invaluable assistance to the Empire in its general war efforts. 
I may add that already large quantities of ammunition and other defence materials have already been exported from Australia to Great Britain. It is hoped that with our expanded production we shall be able, in the near future, to assist to a greater extent than in the past in this important direction. 
In conformity with the policy, frequently expressed by the Opposition of late, of not cavilling at the financial requirements of the Government for the purposes of the war effort, the Opposition intends to support this bill. I was hopeful that the Minister would be able to give an indication in his second-reading speech of what the requirements of the Government are likely to be in the near future, and whether an attempt will be made to use the third method for the raising of money which the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  mentioned in his financial statement as being available to the Government. On that occasion he said that, money could be raised in three ways - by taxation, by loans, and by an extension of bank credit. I do not propose to examine the differences between those three methods, but the Opposition should be enlightened as to the Government's intentions. Australia is now incurring an expenditure of £1,000,000 a week in interest, and it must be obvious that there is a limit to the distance we can go in that regard. The time will come when saturation point, will be reached as regards both interest and taxation, and the community will no longer be able to bear the burden, even should the interest rates be lower than those to which we have been accustomed. I admit that the field of taxation has not yet been fully explored, but we do not know how long the war may continue. What, then, arc the intentions of the Government regarding the extended use of bank credit? 
.- My leader has referred to three ways in which money could be raised for the purposes of this war. Honorable senators should realize that when the war began the money required to carry it on was not in existence, and had to be created in the best possible way in the interests of the taxpayers. The bill passed this afternoon gives to the Government unlimited power over practically everything, including the banking system. Australia is fortunate in having the Commonwealth Bank. The British Government will have to deal with the Bank of England, which, in the past, has absolutely deified it. That bank's transactions with the British Government are the only things one can find out about it, because its employees are bound to secrecy. When  Sir John  Simon, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, was asked in the House of Commons, by  Mr. Stokes,  whether he was prepared to bring in a bill to alter the constitution of the Bank of England, which has stood since 1694, so that the people of Great Britain might know who owned the bank, and what its policy was, he said that the British Government was not prepared to tackle that institution. Perhaps that Government was thinking of the fate that befell Blum, Laval and Daladier, when they tackled the Bank of France. Those three leaders went out of office because they dared to challenge the financial monopoly in France. 
I have already told honorable senators that the Bank for International Settlements, founded by  Mr. Montagu  Norman after the last war, led to the formation of centralized banks throughout the British Empire. There is much misconception in the public mind regarding the Commonwealth Bank. It is said to be a central bank, which controls the credit of 
Australia; but it is not the central bank: of Australia. It is the very antithesis of a central bank. It is the leading bank, of the private banking system. Therefore I protest against the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  calling the Commonwealth Bank the central bank of" Australia. 
There are three ways in which themoney required for war purposes could be raised. Taxation involves the actual confiscation of the people's money and a lowering of their standard of living. No security is given for the money taken by way of taxation. Money collected in taxes is real money, but the people do not get interest-bearing bonds for it. When a bank gives a cheque it issues counterfeit money which has never been the subject of an investigation by a Prices Commission. I am trying to  pursuade  theGovernment that, if it were to finance the war effort without increasing the people'staxes, it would be doing something to protect the interests of the taxpayers. Only this week the Government foreshadowed a tremendous increase of taxes. Bank credit, a3 I have previously said, is counterfeit money, but, when the banks give cheques to the Government, they receive interest-bearing bonds. Referring to the loan of £9,000,000 floated when  Mr. Casey  was Treasurer, I asked the Minister representing the Treasurer how much of the money raised through the banks consisted of bank credit and how much had been subscribed by the public. I was informed that, of £4,840,000, £3,750,000 was bank-created credit. 
No person is entitled to hold war savings certificates to a greater value than £250. The banks found it hardly worth their while to bother about these certificates, but they decided to buy them for their employees, and they have probably bought hundreds of thousands of pounds' worth in this way. The contributions of the employees for the purchase of the certificates are deducted weekly from their wages, and the banks hold the money, which becomes part of their cash reserves, on which they can lend ten times the amount of the employees' savings. 
It was announced at a great " winthewar " rally, recently, that the Australian Mutual Provident Society had loaned £1,500,000 to the Government. As all amounts applied for by banks carry a commission of  i  per cent., the bank which applied for these bonds pocketed £3,750. Some members of the public have made loans available to the Government free of interest, but I have not noticed that any bank has offered to do that. Would not the Government be justified in asking the banks to lend a few millions of pounds without interest, since they could produce the money at no cost to themselves? They do not lend money. I once stated in this chamber that deposits are the liabilities of a bank. Have honorable senators ever known of an institution which could lend its liabilities? I should like to see a balance-sheet passed by a qualified accountant which showed that a business had lent its liabilities. I do not want continually to quote paragraph 504 or paragraph 530 of the report of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems. Honorable senators should know those paragraphs by heart, but apparently the truth contained in them has not been absorbed by them. 
Yes.  Mr. Craigie  is a single-taxer. The idea of a single tax was wonderful when it was first proposed, but although it has been before us for over twenty years it has never been given effect, and now it is out of date. Under the authority conferred on it by the national security legislation the Government should borrow the money it requires through the Commonwealth Bank, free of interest. That can be done, because the country owns the Commonwealth Bank., all the profits of which go to the nation. That institution has already made profits amounting to £30,000,000. In company with a leading accountant of Sydney, I studied the balance-sheet of the bank for the period ended the 30th June, 1938, and saw that on a capital of £6,000,000 the bank showed ft profit of 25 per cent. Yet we are told that there is no profit in banking. The Commonwealth Bank is refusing business every day; and still it makes enormous profits. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the whole gamut of banking under this bill. 
I am showing how the money can be obtained. The duty of the Government is to borrow through the Commonwealth Bank. No supporter of the Government can prove that that cannot be done. We have before us legislation empowering the Government to take complete control of everything. 
The honorable senator is discussing other legislation, not the bill before the Senate. 
The honorable senator is out of order. 
I rise to point out that the policy of  the  Labour party in relation to the raising of money for war-time needs is that money required for naval and military expenditure shall be derived from direct taxation. The proposal contained in this bill cannot be justified at a time like the present, because it provides for the payment of profit to those who invest their money in order to enable the nation to carry on its war-time activities. In a time of crisis, moneys which are not being usefully employed in industry should be made available to meet the war-time needs of the nation. There is no need for the country to incur a heavy burden of interest.  Honorable  senators will remember that the interest commitments  of this country in 1932 were responsible for the introduction of the Premiers plan which caused widespread poverty throughout the country, What will happen after this war is over? Will this country be in a position to meet its increased interest bill ? Should it not be in a position to do so, one of two things must happen : either there will have to be another Premiers plan, with more devastating results than on the former occasion, or there will have to be a repudiation of our obligations. Honorable senators will remember that after the last war there was repudiation by some nations. Do they wish that Australia shall be placed in that category? Can the Minister representing the Treasurer give to us any idea of the way in which Australia will meet its war-time commitments after the war is over, assuming, of course, that we win the war ? Where there is no scarcity of man-power and materials, there should be no scarcity of money. After all, money is only the medium whereby we exchange one commodity for another. This bill provides for the payment of profit to those who invest money to enable the country to carry on the war. The greater the interest bill the less money there is available for expenditure in other directions. I enter my protest against the continued capitalizing of the war-time distress of the nation. A bill with which the Senate has just dealt contains a provision enabling the GovernorGeneral to make regulations requiring persons to place themselves and their property at the disposal of the Commonwealth. 
I shall refer to a speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  in which he used similar words. He said that the Government would ask working men to place themselves at the disposal of the Government. The Government will not strengthen the confidence of the working community in its administration by adhering to  a  financial policy under which millions of pounds are paid in interest while the wages of the workers are being cut down to an irreducible minimum. Wages must be reduced if we are to meet the enormous commitments into which we have already entered. We have been told that every one should be prepared to make a sacrifice, but perhaps not to the same degree as those who fight for us overseas. The Government expects the workers in the factories to make sacrifices to the limit, but at the same time, it will not ask those who lend money to make any sacrifice at all. Those who advance money or credit will not make it available until they are assured that a certain rate of interest will be paid, and because of that the Government is building up a huge liability which will have to be met when the war is over. Honorable senators opposite who speak of the necessity for equality of sacrifice cannot justify the proposals contained in this bill, because the money lenders do not make any sacrifice. That is a phase of the Government's policy to which the members of this party are uncompromisingly opposed. If the Government continues to give effect to this policy, it must lead either to repudiation or to the lowering of the standard of living. There is no middle course, and for that reason, if for no other, I am opposed to the passage of this bill.   Senator Herbert  Hays.  -  What does the honorable senator suggest as an alternative ? 
The alternative, I suggest, is that money not being used in essential war industries should be taxed to the extent of the Government's requirements. 
The whole financial system is one of confiscation where the workers are concerned, because they are paid not on the value of the commodities which they produce, but in accordance with the cost of subsistence plus a small margin for skill. All excess wealth created, principally through the medium of machinery and improved methods, is confiscated by the employers in the form of profits.  Senator Herbert  Hays should bear in mind the degree to which the surplus value created by the workers is confiscated daily, and should remember that the additional  capital secured is used to purchase luxuries, which, are denied to the workers. We heard to-day of the wives of internees travelling in highpowered expensive limousines and using petrol for unnecessary purposes, but that is possible because of the proposals contained in this bill. If the Government wishes to secure the best results from the people during the present crisis, business must not be carried on as usual as was suggested by the Prime Minister; we we must depart from that policy and compel men possessing capital to make sacrifices to the same degree as the factory workers and the soldiers who are fighting for us are compelled to do. 
Generally speaking, I support the opinions expressed by  Senator Cameron,  concerning our financial position. Honorable senators opposite have said that interest is paid on depositors' money; but I remind them that there are many deposits on which no interest at all is paid. On a previous occasion, I pointed out that the Commonwealth Bank, with the support of the Government, made £21,000,000 available to finance the sales of wheat to Great Britain. When I said that the wheat pool was to be charged 3 per cent, interest on that amount, the Leader of the Senate asked if I thought that the money should be made available free of interest. When I contended that it should, he asked whether  the depositors were not entitled to interest on the money which they had placed in the Commonwealth Bank. I shall show that interest is not paid on all deposits. I agree with  Senator Cameron  that we shall soon reach a stage when it will be found that the interest burden on the community is so great that the standard of the living of the workers will have to be reduced, as it was during the depression of 1931, or the nation will have to repudiate.  Senator Darcey  mentioned that 30s. per cent, is being paid to the Commonwealth Bank, which should be functioning as a central reserve bank, and under its charter, should make money available at a lower rate. Is it not possible for the Commonwealth Bank to come to the assistance of the nation and thereby reduce our financial responsibilities? 
I have never mentioned unlimited expansion of credit. 
The Government is the best judge of that. I am satisfied that credit has not been expanded to the degree that it should be. The Leader of the Senate said that depositors had to be paid interest at the rate of 3 per cent. or 4 per cent., but according to paragraph 18 on page 267 of the report of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking systems, the balance-sheets of the trading banks for 1936 show that the total shareholders' funds amounted to £70,000,000, and the Commonwealth's quarterly statistics show that for the first quarter of that year the sum of £290,000,000 was deposited by the public in the trading banks, of which amount there was £110,000,000 on which no interest was paid. 
It does not matter. The trading banks advance credit far in excess of the amount of their deposits on large amounts of which no interest whatever is paid. 
The commission directed attention to the dangerous nature of the expansion of credit on deposits with the trading banks; these activities are reflected in many directions, particularly in Tasmania, where mortgages were called in, thus driving settlers off their properties. 
Not at all. The persons to whom I am referring sought assistance from the Commonwealth Bank, and were sent to the associated banks which in one period held on deposit £110,000,000 on which no interest was paid. That money was used to expand credit. Instead of the depositors receiving interest at the rate of 3 per cent, or 4 per cent., many of them do not receive any interest at all. Those who receive accommodation from the bank have to pay 6 per cent, interest on money for which the bank does not pay anything at all. 
I am doing so. The object of the measure is to appropriate £20,000,000 and I am rather perturbed at the manner in which the Government is raising money for war purposes. I trust that the Government will exercise with great care, the authority given to it to-day and ensure that high interest is not paid when credit can be obtained free of cost. It would be very interesting to know the exact profits  made  between 1914 and 1918 by the associated banks, despite the fact that, during that time, the Commonwealth Bank was in competition with them. Probably the profits will be greater now that the Commonwealth Bank is no longer on its original charter. 
They went to » well the dividends received by those who had invested money in the banks. On the £110,000,000 of depositors' money which the associated banks held at that time not one penny of interest was paid. If it is possible for the banks to hold this amount of money without paying interest- 
I know. They lend four or five times as much as they hold, and at good rates of interest. I say that the Commonwealth Bank, in making available £21,000,000 at 3 per cent, for financing the operations of the wheat pool, is doing an unjust thing. The Minister asked, by interjection, about the rights of the depositors. Well, I am pointing out now that the banks held £110,000,000 of depositors' money without paying any interest on it. If the associated banks can make profits by lending three or four times the amount of the deposits they hold, surely it is possible for the Commonwealth Government to take charge of the Commonwealth Bank, and use it in this time of emergency. 
I am not advocating expansion without regulation. I do not believe in inflation, but if the associated banks are to be handled as other interests in the community are being handled, the job is before the Government. 

 Senator MoBRIDE (South AustraliaAssistant Minister for Commerce) [5.50]. -  in reply  - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  asked for information about the immediate financial requirements of the Government. I am not in a position to give any definite information on that point. Only a month ago we asked for authority to raise £68,000,000, which wo expected to carry us on until the 31st December next. Unfortunately, owing to the expansion of our war effort, and the consequent increase of expenditure, it is now necessary to ask for authority to raise a further £20,000,000. When the last budget was brought down, we expected to find £14,000,000 out of revenue for defence purposes. Then the country embarked upon a policy of expansion in regard to defence, and this amount was increased by £9,000,000, representing the surplus for the year, making in all £23,000,000 from revenue. In 1940-41 we are budgeting to take from revenue £36,000,000 for defence purposes out of a total estimated expenditure in Australia of £79,000,000. There has been further tremendous expansion since then.  Mr. Essington  Lewis has made a survey of the possibilities of the country for the further production of munitions and military equipment, and it is expected, as a result of his recommendations, that considerably more than the estimated amount of £79,000,000 will be required. Therefore, it is probable that the amount of £68,000,000 which we have authority to raise will not be sufficient to cover necessary expenditure, and we have introduced this bill giving us authority to raise another £20,000,000. Even that may not be sufficient. 
The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the expansion of bank credit. The Treasurer, with the full support of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, has said on several occasions that no part of our war effort would be retarded for lack of money. I have indicated what we  propose to expend out of revenue, but no undertaking can be given that even more than the amount of £36,000,000 will not have to be expended from revenue. In regard to loans we have, up to the present, followed the system of voluntary contributions. There again, should the result prove insufficient, I have no doubt at all that consideration will be given to proposals for raising compulsory loans. It is not necessary for me to tell the Leader of the Opposition how the balance of the money will . be raised if these methods prove insufficient, I suggest, however, that it is not good for the Government to broadcast to 'the country its intentions regarding credit expansion. I can assure the honorable senator that that method has been used in the past, and we shall have no hesitation about using it in the future to the extent that is necessary. I was pleased to hear  Senator Eraser  say that, while he agreed with the principle of credit expansion, the extent of that expansion should be controlled by the Government. I assure him that the Government is taking the necessary steps to bring about what degree of credit expansion is necessary in addition to other methods of raising money. 

 Senator Cameron said that we should confiscate what wealth we need to finance our war effort. I remind him that even compulsory loans are not necessarily free of interest. Appeals have been made to the public to help the cause  at  this time of need, and the response has been very gratifying. We have received over £3,000,000 in interest-free loans, and that is a worthy contribution. It shows that persons with money are not always hungry for interest, as is so often suggested in this chamber. 

 Senator Cameron, in the course of his speech, repeatedly referred to profits made in business as representing the confiscation of what was due to the workers. The honorable' senator is a high official of an industrial organization, and has control of considerable sums of money. I suggest that if it is so easy to organize business in such a way as to make profits, and if he believes that all profits should go back to the workers, he should use his organizing ability, intelligence, and knowledge to set up a trading organi- zation for the benefit of the people whom he claims to represent. Then, let him hand back to the workers the whole of the profits derived from his trading operation. If such business enterprises prove successful - and if they are properly handled they can be successful - the honorable senator's success will give greater force to the accusations which he is continually levelling against the ' business community for making profits, and, allegedly, exploiting the workers. I believe that the conditions enjoyed by the workers of Australia are  equal  to the best in any other country.  Whilst  I do not say that those conditions represent the ideal, I maintain that the workers here are very well cared for. It is not the purpose of this Government to cut down the standards of the workers in any way beyond what may be rendered necessary by force of circumstances, and by events which no one can foretell. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 by leave  - It is with regret that I have to inform the Senate of the death of a former member of the House of Representatives,  Mr. EdwardWalker  Archer, who died at Rockhampton on the 1st July last. The late  Mr. Archer  was elected to the House of Representatives in 1906 as member for Capricornia, Queensland, and represented that Division until 1910. He was afterwards a member of the Parliament of Queensland. I express to his widow and family our sincere sympathy in their bereavement, and move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Mr. Edward  Walker Archer, a former member for the Division of Capricorn ia, in the House of Representatives, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends He profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I knew the late  Mr. Archer  well, although not as a member of this Parliament, because he retired from it many years before I was elected to the Senate. Probably I knew him best as a pioneer in the pastoral and dairying industries of Queensland, and for his wonderful contribution to the municipal life of Central Queensland. The late  Mr. Archer  devoted a considerable part of his time to the service of his fellow citizens. For some time he was  chairman  of directors of the Port Curtis Co-operative Dairying Company: he was  chairman  of the Calliope Shire Council for four years, and later was  chairman  for many years of the Fitzroy Shire Council, and also  president  of the Rockhampton Agricultural Society. He was not of my political faith. I wish to pay a sincere tribute to the wonderful and unselfish service which, during his life, he gave to the people of Queensland, and, of course, to Australia. 
I agree entirely with the message of sympathy proposed to be sent to the relatives of the deceased gentleman. 
On behalf of the members of the Country party in this chamber I support the motion. Although I did not know the deceased gentleman for any considerable time, his work has left its mark on the central district and the central west of Queensland. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has said, he was one of the pioneers of that State, and was responsible for opening up large tracts of pastoral country in the central west of Queensland.  On  my own behalf and on behalf of my colleagues I express our sympathy with the relatives of the late  Mr. Archer,  many of whom I know personally. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - It is with great regret that I have to submit a motion of condolence with respect to the late Honorable  Sir George  Warburton Fuller, K.C.M.G., who died in Sydney on the 22nd July.  Sir George  Fuller had had a long and distinguished public career. Prior to federation he was a member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales from 1889 to 1894. He was elected to the House of Representatives in the first Commonwealth Parliament in 1901, representing the division of Illawarra, and was reelected in 1903, 1906 and 1910. He was a member of the Select Committee on the Bonuses for Manufactures Bill 1902, and of the royal commission appointed in that behalf in 1903; of the Royal Commission on the Customs Tariff, 1904-1907, and of the Royal Commission on Stripper Harvesters in 1909. He attained ministerial rank in June, 1909, as Minister for Home Affairs, and he held that office until April, 1910. He was a member of the parliamentary party which visited England in 1911 at the invitation of the Imperial Government on the occasion of the Coronation of the late King George V. On leaving the sphere of federal parliamentary activities, he again became a member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales in 1915. He was Chief Secretary from 1916 to 1920, and was Acting Premier of New South Wales in 1917, when the Premier visited Great Britain. In 1919, a knighthood of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George was conferred on him. He was Premier of New South Wales from April, 1922, to June, 1925. In 1928, he was appointed Agent-General in London for New South Wales and occupied that position for some years.  His  was a life devoted to public service and to the interests of his fellow men. I have to express to his widow and family sincere sympathy in their bereavement I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable  Sir George  Warburton Fuller, K.C.M.G., a former member of the Commonwealth and New South Wales Parliaments, former Commonwealth Minister and State Premier- and Minister, places on record its appreciation of bis distinguished public service, and tenders to bis widow and family its deep sympathy in their bereavement. 
Although I did not know the late  Sir George  Fuller personally, we all are aware that during  his lifetime he rendered eminent service to Australia. We always appear to reserve the good things that can be said of persons who accept responsibility, such as he did, until they are dead; but it is proper that even then we should express our appreciation of the services rendered to this country by men such as the late  Sir George,  and that we should also send a message of sympathy to their relatives. 
I desire to associate myself and the members of the Country Party in the Senate with the motion, more particularly as I had the privilege of serving in. the New South Wales Parliament as a colleague of the late  Sir George  Fuller, who was my political chief. One remembers with admiration and affection the straightforward and. high character of the deceased gentleman. I recall those unhappy months in 1917 when a great industrial upheaval occurred in New South Wales and the unpleasant burdens which fell upon his shoulders, and when all sections of the community, I believe, recognized in him a man with a kindly heart who always wanted to be fair. He always sought to do what he conceived to be his duty without the slightest sign of bitterness or unpleasantness towards his fellow men. He enjoyed the confidence, respect and, I believe, the affection of most of the members of all political parties of the parliament of New South Wales. I consider it a privilege to be able to pay tribute to the memory of a man who gave his life in the service of his country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Will the Minister for the Interior lay upon the table of the Senate all the papers concerning the internment of Frederick Carpe, of Rooty Hill, New South Wales, and his subsequent release? 
I do not think that the Minister will do what the honorable senator asks, but I shall make inquiries. Papers such as those mentioned by the honorable senator are never made available to thepublic. 
Is the Assistant Minister for Commerce aware that the Government of Northern Ireland has purchased the entire flax crop of Northern Ireland for the British Government at £4 a ton for straw, and about £28 a ton for seed? Does the Commonwealth Government intend to purchase, on behalf of the British Government, flax produced by Australian growers at prices similar to those paid for the crop in Northern Ireland ? 
I have not noticed the report to which  Senator Gibson  has referred, but I am in a position to inform him that the Commonwealth Government intends to purchase the flax produced by Australian growers. For the information of the honorable senator I shall endeavour to obtain details of the agreement which has been entered into. 
Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General inform the Senate when the appointment of additional arbitration inspectors will be announced ? 
I shall obtain the information from the Attorney-General. I understand that the appointments will be announced this week. 
In view of the delay which is occurring in the delivery of mail matter to the Australian Imperial Force overseas, will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General give further consideration to a reduction of existing charges for such air-mail matter? I raised this matter on a previous occasion and I was informed that consideration would be given to my suggestion. 
Has that consideration been given, and if so, does the Government intend to make a concession to the soldiers? 
Consideration has been given to the matter raised by  Senator Eraser,  and I understand that an announcement regarding it will be made in the near future. 
In view of the present disturbed international situation will the Minister for the Navy recall for home defence Australian warships which at present are not in Australian waters ? 
Question not answered. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Information say whether it is true that the Minister has recently required a number of persons, both male and female, to approach individuals, and to ask them a series of questions, as has been done by " Cooper's Snoopers " in the Old Country? If this bc true, what questions have been asked, and what is the real object of this action? 
If the honorable senator will submit his question in such a way as to make it intelligible, I shall endeavour to secure the information sought by him. 
Who are " Cooper's Snoopers " f I know nothing about them. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Air aware that land taken over in the Tamworth district for the purposes of an aerodrome - I refer to the Tamworth racecourse - is, at times, covered by water two feet deep, whereas much more suitable land adjacent to the town is available? 
I am not aware of that, but. if the honorable senator desires information on the matter, I shall have inquiries made regarding it. 
In view of the serious position that has arisen on account of the proposal for the rationing of petrol, has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development been drawn to the wanton waste caused by overlapping of control and lack of co-ordination in regard to motor transport at our military 
Gamps, as reported in the newspapers? Will the Minister have this matter investigated, with a view to appointing a motor transport co-ordination officer in order to conserve petrol supplies? 
I take exception to the honorable senator alleging overlapping and waste, merely because of what he may have read in the press. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the statement which was delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr. MoEwen)  (vide  page 184), and moved - 
That the paper be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I direct attention to the decision of the Senate in respect of my motion for the printing of the petition, signed by 2,340 electors of the Commonwealth, praying this chamber to urge the Government,  to provide for' the issue of interest-free money, through the Commonwealth Bank, for the requirements of Australian defence. Those honorable senators who voted against my motion totally disregarded the finding of the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems, and disregarded also the resolutions passed by three State Parliaments asking that the facilities of the Commonwealth Bank be utilized to provide interestfree money for war purposes, as well as for the assistance of our primary producers. During the  la3t  few years hundreds of public meetings have been held in different parts of Australia to discuss this important phase of Commonwealth policy, and resolutions on the lines of the petition presented this afternoon to the Senate, have been forwarded to the Menzies Government. There is widespread dissatisfaction with the present Government for making only limited use of the national credit for defence and other Commonwealth purposes. lt is well known that the Commonwealth Bank has made contributions to a number of war loans. On more than one occasion I have asked whether interest is to be paid on these loans. Once again I emphasize that the money which this Government requires so urgently ian, and should, be obtained in the manner indicated in the petition. It is wrong for the Government to disregard the request of thousands of electors. As every Minister and supporter of the Government opposed my motion " that the petition be printed ", the electors will know the attitude of these gentlemen on this important sub ject. It has been said on more than one occasion by the Treasurer of Tasmania,  Mr. Dwyer  Gray, and others in responsible positions, that it is just as necessary to defeat the present financial system as it is to defeat Germany. If the Government persists in borrowing money under the present policy, it will ultimately encompass the financial ruin of Australia. The Government, by ite action to-day, has ignored the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems. The Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  through his representative in this chamber, refused to tell me how rauch of the £10,000,000 loan was subscribed by the private banks and how much, was provided by the Commonwealth Bank. I asked a similar question when an appropriation of £12,000,000 was being sought and I received a negative answer. It is unfair to the electors and to the people of Australia generally to continue to disregard the wishes of a large section of our people. Why does the Government continue to borrow money under the present system? I have said previously that the present Government was elected by the banks, and not by the people. I have also said that although 111 members of this Parliament visit Canberra to represent the views of those who sent us here and to frame our legislation, the country is controlled, not by a Government representative of the nation, hut by the associated banks. 
.- Under a regulation framed under the National Security Act, landlords were not permitted to increase house rents beyond those which were in operation on the 31st August, last year ; hut apparently that regulation lapsed in December last, with the result that throughout Victoria - I suppose the position is the same in the other States - rents are being increased unduly, and occupants of dwellings have no redress. The rents of many houses occupied by soldiers and munition workers have been increased. Some landlords have said that as munition workers are receiving good money, they arc able to pay higher rents. As consumers are protected under the National Security Regulations, a regulation should be re-introduced to protect those who are compelled to rent properties. This matter was brought under my notice in Melbourne on Friday last by a person who subsequently sent to me the following letter : - 
In reference to the National Security Act in reference to the rent problem I would like to draw to your attention the way the landlords raise the rent. When an apartment house changes hands they will not accept the new tenant unless they agree to pay increased rent. I saw a reputable agent and he told me there was nothing in the act to prevent them doing so when there was a change of tenancy of any house. And I can point out many instances of rents being raised 10s., 5s. and 7s. 6d. a week lately for eight or ten roomed houses and as you know this must be passed on to the room tenants many of whom are soldiers'  wives and munition workers. In one instance the house owned by a government servant told nic; that they increased the rent as munition workers were making big money and could afford to pay more for rooms. Trusting you will have success in your endeavours to get the act amended to end this exploiting of the poorer class. 
I believe that if this matter be brought under the notice of the Government, action will be taken to re-introduce a regulation to protect those who are being charged unnecessarily high rents. 
, - I bring to the attention of the Government a remarkable letter written by  Sir Hal  Colebatch, who was once a distinguished member of this chamber, on the subject of the profits made by the major oil companies. The letter, which was published in the  West Austraiian  newspaper, on the loth July, has caused a great deal of comment throughout the country districts of Western Australia, and particularly at Kalgoorlie, where the retail price of petrol is 3s. 3d. a gallon. The letter reads - 
While the rationing of petrol used for purposes of pleasure might well have been introduced months ago, together with restrictions on other luxury expenditure, the severity of the proposals .now announced is such as to threaten the efficient conduct of many of our industries, particularly some of the already hard pressed activities associated with primary production. The purpose of rationing is to conserve dollar exchange, and it would be heartening to the community to know that the Commonwealth Government has exhausted all other avenues for achieving this end. Several weeks ago your cable messages made brief reference to the action of the Government of British Columbia in cutting down the price that the original supplier - the oil companies - might charge. The companies revolted, there was a strike and a case in the courts, the incident ending with a compromise, but it is reasonable to assume that it took the form of some reduction in initial price: a saving of dollar exchange. 
More recently,  Sir Frederick  Stewart was able to announce that he had arranged substantial reductions in the price of petrol supplied to the Commonwealth Government; another saving of dollar exchange. But there vere two features of this reduction that need some explanation. Tn the first place it does not appear that any attempt was made to obtain an equivalent reduction for the Australian consumer generally, and, secondly, it was made clear that to obtain the reduction  Sir Frederick  had to seek the good offices of a company outside the combine: in other words, he had to go behind the back of the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited - a company in which the Commonwealth Govern ment has a large holding and over which it exercises some measure of control. 
With characteristic modesty the oil companies have refrained from any display of the details of their operations, but certain facts are well known, For instance the statements of Lord Bearsted at a meeting of thu Shell Company some few years ago, made it clear that the total cost of producing petrol and landing it in Australia was less than lcl. per gallon. The proceedings of certain royal com missions that have sat in Australia - unhappily with inconclusive results - will bc remembered. The meagre facts revealed in no way disturbed this estimate of landed cost and the findings of the  chairman  indicated that the petrol companies were making very high charges to their Australian organizations with the result that most of the profit resulting from the Australian trade appeared to be made outside Australia and consequently escaped Australian taxation. The British Parliament dealt with this situation as far back as 1915 by levying taxation on the actual profits " as at the source and the then Chancellor of the Exchequer described the practice of loading invoice prices a? " evasion ". 
It is well known that for years past the price charged by the supplying companies in England has been at least 4d. per gallon less than in Australia; the same companies, the same petrol and quite irrespective of any difference in customs duty. Kerosene, in like conditions, has been 33 per cent, cheaper in England than here, while for lubricating oils there is a still wider disparity in prices - to our serious detriment. All this suggests that the time is more than ripe for some such action as was taken by Great Britain a quarter of a century ago, and some such action as British Columbia ventured upon as a war-time measure. 
But this is only a part of the tale. The petrol having been landed in Australia at a price that goes a long way to creating additional American millionaires without a reasonable contribution to Australian income tax revenue, we impose additional heavy burdens on the country consumer. I have had occasion - on public business - to travel extensively in the country during recent weeks, and have noticed the prices paid- for petrol by those who have generously afforded me conveyance. With every few miles from the city up goes the price, at a rate altogether disproportionate to the cost of its transport. For instance, at a centre 150 miles from Perth by road, the price is 2s. lOd. - 6d. above the Perth price, although large consumers in that locality, who can afford to equip a truck and take down their own supplies, have assured me that the total cost of such a procedure does not exceed Id. per gallon. Surely something beyond drastic rationing needs to be done about the petrol business. 
Yours, &amp;c., 
I shall see that my colleague, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir FrederickStewart),  receives a copy of the speech made by  Senator Johnston.  I assure the honorable senator that the Government is fully sympathetic to residents of country districts who have special transport needs, and it was not with any degree of pleasure that the Government found it necessary to impose a restriction amounting to one-third of the normal petrol consumption. However, it was absolutely essential that there should be a drastic reduction of the amount of petrol imported in order to conserve dollar exchange for the purchase of other essential war requirements. As honorable senators are no doubt aware, a committee has been set up for the purpose of deciding what is the most satisfactory method of imposing the restrictions necessary to help the Government meet the many difficult problems associated with war finance. No doubt  Senator Johnston  is aware that a direct representative of the primary industries has been appointed to that committee in order that he may put forward, as  Senator Johnston  has done this afternoon, the case for the primary producers. 1 quite agree that the man on the land is faced with transport difficulties which are infinitely greater than those encountered by the more fortunate residents of the cities, who, in the main, run their cars for pleasure over areas which are adequately served by trams, buses or railways. It is a much simpler matter to restrict the use of pleasure cars in urban areas than to curtail transport which is essential to the livelihood of country residents. I hope that the committee will succeed in evolving an equitable formula which will result in equality of sacrifice by all sections of the community, and will give special consideration to residents of country areas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave  - On the motion for the adjournment of the Senate yesterday,  Senator Keane  drew attention to an apparent defect in the National Security (Fair Rents) Regulations through the lapsing, in December last, of a provision that house rents were not to increase beyond those which were in operation on the 31st August,  1939.  At the Premiers Conference in September last, when price control was discussed, it was agreed that the control of rents should be undertaken by the States.Some of the States, at that time, were not in a position to take effective control and the Commonwealth gazetted the National Security (Fair Rents) Regulations empowering the State governments to establish machinery for controlling rents during the war. As some delay might have occurred in setting up the necessary machinery, the regulations included a provision similar to that embodied in the early prices regulations that rents were to be held at  the level of the 31st August. This provision expired on the 31st December, by which time it was anticipated that the full machinery of control by the States would bo in operation. The regulations were recently amended, at the request of one State, to cover the rent of factories, and, if further defects are found, the Commonwealth will gladly consider any request by the States to remedy them. To continue indefinitely a provision fixing rents at the level of the 31st August would be to take the control out of the hands of the States, and to leave no ground for adjustment of rent at the request of either landlord or tenant. The States, however, have full powers to investigate all matters relating to rents and to fix rents. 
Can the Assistant Minister for Commerce supply any information concerning the next payment to be made by the Australian Wheat Board in respect of wheat in the No. 2 pool? 
As was announced recently, a further payment of 4d. a bushel is due to be paid on the 16th August on last year's crop. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Ministerstate whether the Government values the assistance of members of this Parliament in stimulating the war effort? If so, will the Government issue instructions to all committees that the assistance of federal members is to be sought in addressing meetings and in stimulating the sale of war savings certificates? My reason for submitting this question is that, in Tasmania, the federal members are being ignored. 
The efforts of any member of this Parliament who is prepared to assist in the war effort will be appreciated. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development inform me whether, before the petrol-rationing plan is put into operation, the Government will make a statement on the subject of uneconomic competition by motor transport with government railways? 
I cannot say that a ministerial statement will be made on that matter, but, if the honorable senator will state more clearly what information he desires, I shall endeavour to obtain it for him. 
In view of the inefficiency, waste, and loss of temper and time occasioned in deciphering Roman numerals in Commonwealth publications, will the Leader of the Senate ascertain whether the Prime Minister will favorably consider the exclusive use of Arabic numerals in all Commonwealth publications? Should it be decided to retain the obsolete Roman numeral system, will the Prime Minister provide for the use also of ordinary numerals, so that ordinary people may understand the numbering of documents? 
I shall refer the request of the honorable senator to the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the total amount applied for by the associated banks on behalf of their employees in war savings certificates, and the amount paid to the private banks as commission on these applications? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The Government has no information as to war savings certificates taken up by banks for their employees. No commission is paid in connexion with the sale of these certificates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What amounts have been paid to growers of apples and pears under the acquisition scheme in each State? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The advances paid to growers of apples and pears, on bare fruit, up to the 30th July, 1940, are - 

<graphic href="164332194008076_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the racecourse at Tamworth, which has been taken over by the Defence Department for an aerodrome, is covered in wet seasons with water in places 2 feet deep? 
If so, is there not more suitable land available adjacent toTam worth? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers: - 
In very wet seasons, water floods part of the area, but it is not considered this will interfere with flying operations. 
All factors considered, this is the most suitable site in the vicinity of Tamworth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Are the persons reported to be canvassing in the city of Launceston, and asking a series of questions of householders, acting under instructions from the Commonwealth Government? 
If so, what is the purpose of the canvass? 
The Minister for Information has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
See answer to 1. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the statement - War-time Agricultural Policy - which was delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  on the 6th August  (vide  page 202), and moved - 
That the paper be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Fraser)  adjourned. 
 We are assembled again under the mental tension of war, an intensified tension because the portents have worsened over the intervening weeks since the last meeting of the Senate. I desire to emphasize by reiteration Labour's attitude to the existing Government. It can be summarized very briefly in these words : " Full co-operation in its war effort ". I emphasize also Labour's willingness to accept the most complete responsibility for the conduct of this Commonwealth during this period of unprecedented emergency. By that I mean that we stand for an immediate appeal to the electors, while we definitely refuse to participate in a national government in which those comprising the Labour section of it would be sworn to secrecy and would be sharers of responsibility with no pretence of equality of power. I summarize that statement by saying that we do not propose touse the old pack of cards. As the Premier of Queensland said recently we ask for a new pack, a new shuffle and a new deal. I make these statements of Labour's attitude briefly and definitely with the full sense of the responsibility for what I am saying. 
The statement that we are discussing is to me, and I believe to every member of the Opposition, if not the members on the Government side -I should be surprised to know that theyare satisfied with it - a most disappointing document. With respect and without intending any reflection on the Minister  (Senator Collett),  who delivered it in the 
Senate yesterday, I say that it was an uninspiring statement read in an uninspiring way. I am not Warning the Minister for that. I know that there was only one copy available and that it was thrust into the hands of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr. McEwen)  for delivery in the House of Representatives at the eleventh hour, and even later into the hands of the Minister who had to deliver it in this chamber. I say in passing that I hope that yesterday was the last occasion on which we shall have a ministerial statement read and ended with a motion that the paper be printed without copies of the statement being available to members of this chamber. To-day the performance has been much more satisfactory. I exonerate the Minister from blame because I know exactly what happened, but I asked him yesterday to let me have sufficient copies for my colleagues. He agreed to do that. We got them five minutes ago. We have enough staff here to do the job of the Government as it should be done, and we should have had those statements, as promised, the first thing this morning. 
I presume that, if Government supporters have not that privilege, it is because of their indolence in not demanding service. The point I make is that some servants of this Government fell down badly on a simple job. After midday to-day, I was given four copies, hardly readable, and I was told that no others could be provided, because the wax stencil sheets had been destroyed. We should have been supplied with proofs of the  Hansard  report of the Minister's speech last night. We did not want corrected pulls. I would not expect my colleagues to take part in a debate if they were not given the same opportunity of decent preparation as I. 
I am induced to make these remarks because I take exception to the manner in which the statement was prepared as well as the manner in which it was delivered. The Minister, I understand, had not had an opportunity to study it. Obviously, the Government thinks it does not matter how things are done in the Senate. The statement read yesterday by the Minister was a reflection upon the intelligence of honorable senators and an insult to the people whom we represent in this chamber. It was a valueless jumble of alleged news, practically every word of which we have either read in the press or heard in wireless broadcasts. Yet it appears in  Hansard  with the magniloquent title " Ministerial statement on International Affairs ". If any honorable senator can tell me or if the Minister who delivered the statement can tell rae that it added any thing whatever, one solitary item, to the information already in possession of honorable senators who read the daily press or listen to the radio news, all I can say is that I have not been able to discover it. 1 " swotted " the statement last night in an attempt to get some satisfaction from it but I could not do so. I do not intend to read much of the document because there is so very little in it, but it begins by saying- 
When towards the end of June I addressed the House on the general situation abroad, it was to recount the tragic circumstances leading to the surrender of France and the elimination of that country from the war against Germany. I do not suppose that on that occasion there were many of us who would have cared to foretell the position in which we would find ourselves six weeks later. 
Now the Labour Opposition in this chamber and in the House of Representatives has told the Government since 1937 over and over again with painful iteration that the situation was worsening every 24 hours. We said neither the Government nor anybody else was able to tell what the final alinement would be. One cannot tell to-day. 'Yet the first paragraph of this statement expresses surprise. We are told that no one could have foretold ! Of course they could. Any intelligent government should have known that eventually we would be faced with a situation as intensified as it is to-day. 
I am not responsible for men who make irresponsible statements either here or elsewhere. I ;im now dealing with a statement made by a responsible Minister of State in this Government. That statement makes him say in effect, " We were entirely surprised. Now we find we are up against it". All I can say is that the Government had no right to be surprised because the Labour party in both Houses warned it of what was coming. 
Reference to  Ilansard  will show that I, as Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, made a definite appeal on one occasion regarding certain matters concerning another power, and  Sir George  Pearce, who was then Leader of the Senate and Minister for Defence, said that I had no right whatever even to insinuate that another power was likely to become unfriendly. I did not mention the name, but I asked the Minister to let us know which nation was our potential enemy. To-day, we know, and we are also aware that nothing adequate has been done to meet the situation. 
In making these comments, I wish to be fair to myself and to every member of the Opposition, and I also desire, to be fair to the Government. I say without any reservations, mental or otherwise, that no member of the Opposition fails to understand the immensity of the task confronting the Government. We should understand the responsibility that rests upon Ministers, because the Opposition of to-day may be the government of tomorrow. The Opposition realizes that a great deal must he done during wartime which cannot he blazoned forth to the world, and it has given proof that, in the main, it has not desired to embarrass the Government. The nature of the questions addressed to Ministers during the last few months supports my statement. Therefore, there is nothing that the Government should feel obliged to withhold from members of this Parliament. The war has been in progress for a year, hut we have never been told anything more valuable about it than the uninspiring statement which we are now discussing. Surely honorable senators on both sides of the chamber have sufficient pride to demand that no information regarding the war be kept from them. The Opposition asks the Government to hold a secret session of this Parliament. If this request be refused, the only reason for the refusal would be that the Government is afraid to trust honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives. The information that could be supplied to honorable senators at a secret session would at least provide a background of knowledge, and honorable senators on both sides could be relied upon not to disclose information which should rightly be withheld. We should know the best and the worst of what has happened. If there be a senator on either side who cannot be trusted to tell his electors what it would be safe for him to say, and .to withhold what he knew could not safely be said, he should not be a member of this chamber. The Government is afraid of a secret session, because it is not willing to trust all or some of us. 
I shall give an illustration of the kind of esteem in which responsible Ministers hold members of this Parliament. With what I consider to he impudence and silliness, they have issued instructions to the three arms of the Defence Forces that they must nol; enlist the services of a member of Parliament to voice their grievances, either here or in the House of Representatives. That was a rotten and disgusting thing to do, as well as an impudent assumption of authority. I stated in a letter to one Minister, and I repeat it here, that there are 583,321 male and female electors in Queensland. In October, 1937, that number of electors was on the rolls. Every one of those electors has the right to call on my services and the services of the five other senators from Queensland, if and when he or she requires them. No Minister should tell me that I cannot be trusted to do my job properly, and that my electors must not appeal to me, if they want my advice- 
The honorable senator is not to he the judge of the advice that I am te give. Those electors  pay my salary, and I am to be the judge of whether I should give them my services. 
I shall never forget the speech which our comrade,  Senator Keith  Wilson, made on the night before he left to answer the call of duty in the highest way he knew. He stood in his place for at least half an. hour and recited grievances and ridiculous occurrences in camp and throughout the services. He prefaced his statement by saying that for three months he had been a soldier, and had been unable to make such statements, but that that night he would speak as a senator. 

 - His remarks impressed me a great deal, particularly when I read the order implying that no senator in this National Parliament could be trusted to do his duty by his electors for fear he might upset somebody in a position of temporary responsibility - a responsibility not always wisely exercised. On behalf of myself and my colleagues from Queensland, I ask the Minister to remember that we get closer to the people in regard to complaints than do Ministers and other honorable senators opposite. The people look to members of the Opposition as those who are prepared to take the responsibility of voicing their legitimate grievances. The people say " The Opposition will take our complaints up, and will try to obtain for us a square deal." I do not suggest that all of their complaints are justifiable. I suppose that, of the hundreds of grievances placed before me, I have turned down one half of them, but I am to be the judge of that matter. 
I suggest to the Leader of the Senate, and to his colleagues on the front bench - and I do so in a serious vein - that a definite Australian policy is needed in regard to the war and all that pertains to it. We need an "Australia First" policy. The time has arrived when nothing should be done in connexion with this struggle which has not for its immediate objective the saving of this country from the disaster of invasion and all that that implies. I am prepared to go to the electors on a defence policy which envisages the preservation of the safety of Australia as the job of an Australian government. We are entitled to know a number of things regarding the war, whether we have a secret session or not. We have a right to know what the Government has told the Government of the United Kingdom about Australia's needs and desires, and Australia's opinion as to the duty and obligation of the Government of the United Kingdom regarding its activities and its relations with other governments, particularly those in the 'South Pacific. Honorable senators opposite say that there are certain facts which must not be disclosed to the enemy. Of course, information which would be of advantage to the enemy must not be disclosed ; but the Government should hold a secret session of this Parliament at which we could be told exactly what has been done. We should have been informed in the statement which was delivered yesterday of the recommendations made to the United Kingdom Government with respect to the closing of the Burma-road. There could be no reason whatever why the text of the communications was not made available because the enemy knew of it and was actually a party to it. Information on that and similar subjects should be made available to this Parliament. The statements which have been made are practically valueless. We know that they are not the truth. This most recent statement from a responsible Minister was valueless. We know that it was not true. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! The honorable senator is not entitled to say that a statement was not true. 
I did not use the word " untrue " in an offensive sense I meant that it was not all of the truth; I did not mean that it was deliberately false. Either in a secret or in an open session, we should be told all of the truth, and nothing but the truth. How can we do our duty to the nation unless we know what is actually occurring* I do not know what my colleagues think of the situation as it develops from day to day; but I can say most definitely that I refuse to read the public press on the international situation. I look at the headlines and then pass on, because it is all so much  "  hooey  ". Day after day we are told things which are an insult to one's intelligence. In every engagement reported apparently nothing of importance occurs. We read that buildings are blown up and perhaps a hoy is injured. Other reports are to the effect that everything is just as we would like it to he, and that the other fellow got it " in the neck ". 1 refuse to read that kind of rubbish. I again protest against the press reports that come under my purview. Had I had my way - perhaps I had better not say what I intended because I do not believe in dictatorships - at the outbreak of war I would have closed up every newspaper office in the country and allowed the Government to publish its own official paper in which it could tell the people just what it wished them to know. 
It would depend on the government in power. We have a right to know what the Censor is doing. I should like to know why the authorities are engaging men and women, who have no responsibility, who go about telling lies about people against whom they have a grudge. In conjunction with  the honorable member for Brisbane (Mir. George Lawson) I took up the case of a man of enemy origin who has been in Australia for 43 years, during 42 of which he has been a naturalized British su'bject. This man was deprived of his permit to work on the wharves. To a degree that was all right, because instructions had been issued by the Navigation Department that no person of enemy origin was to possess a permit to work on the wharves. But this man's permit was withdrawn because it was said that he was a menace to the community and should not be allowed to work on the wharves. I have known the man for 26 years - the honorable member for Brisbane has known him for 30 years - as a faithful and loyal Australian.  His  youngest son is serving in the Australian Imperial Force, his youngest daughter is married to a police constable in North Queensland, and the other members of his family are of the highest possible repute. The first alleged fact on which action was taken was a deliberate and wilful lie. It was said that he was interned during the last war. There is not a shadow of foundation for that statement. He is a member of the Australian Labour party and is as loyal a British subject as could be found anywhere.  His  permit was taken from him because of a statement, not by a responsible officer in government employ, but by a man who worked on the wharf, and whose objection to him was of a personal nature. If we had a secret session of Parliament, I would have an opportunity to tell all I know about the censorship and of the cruel things that are being done under the present system. I am not suggesting that we should dispense with censorship. I have taken up some cases in all sincerity and in some instances have been astounded when I have found that I was on. the wrong track. If we are to have a censorship system, it must be organized and operated by men who have some standing in the community, and to whom is attached some measure of responsibility. 
We have a right to know - we should have known long ago - exactly what the Government intends to do with respect to rationing of petrol. At the hands of this shilly-shallying Government, decisions, particularly with respect to many matters of national importance, are being altered daily. As a result of the pronouncement made some time ago that -the consumption of .petrol had to be reduced by one-third, many persons jacked up their cars and, in consequence, thousands of persons have been thrown out of employment. I am not suggesting that petrol should not bo rationed. From the first day on which I entered this Parliament as a representative of Queensland, the Opposition has been asking governments to conserve supplies of liquid fuel and to increase the quantity held in storage. On one occasion an ex-Minister for Development  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  said that oil could not he extracted economically from coal under the hydrogenation process, although we knew that this process was being successfully applied in Germany and at BillingtononTees in England. We were told that it was not a commercial proposition in Australia. In a national emergency, we are not concerned with whether it is or is not a commercial proposition, particularly when we realize that we are spending millions in our war effort. In the circumstances confronting us, something has to be done. The Queensland Government did not wait until Australia was faced with a shortage, but encouraged the establishment of a power-alcohol factory in northern Queensland, and later passed legislation which provided that every supplier of petrol had to mix  21/2  per cent. of power spirit with the petrol sold, which proportion has since been increased to  5  per cent. For years, the Opposition has been asking various governments to increase the production of fuel oil in Australia. Nothing will be achieved by waiting. Yesterday, I asked a question as to the policy of the Government with respect to gas producer units, and I was told most politely to-day that the information is not yet to hand. A junior clerk should have been able to obtain the information which should be available on the files. 
We also have a right to know what the Government is doing with respect to profiteering, and whether the scheme to control prices is functioning satisfactorily. I know that the Government's proposal is a failure. 
Because profiteering has not been stopped. 
If I start to do that, I shall exhaust my time before I have finished citing instances. I now propose to show what is happening on the other side of the world.  Mr. Ernest  Bevin, one of the Labour members of the British Government, said- 
Yes, under different terms from those proposed by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies).  I may inform the Assistant Minister that in a reshuffle or whatever it may be termed, the Labour party would not be satisfied with four portfolios. Our party would not be satisfied with four, five or six portfolios. It requires fifteen. The Assistant Minister knows what I mean by that.  Mr. Bevin  said - 
I have led many strikes; I do not apologize for having done so- 
I, too, have led a few strikes and I  am  not apologizing - 
I have had to ask men to stick to it to the last ditch and I would do so again. Now as Minister of Labour, I must call upon everyone in the country to do tilings. I shall have to take steps in regard to the production of all that is required for war. Conditions must be put right in order that I can do it. Private profit must not stand in the way. I must have conditions in which I am not working to enrich somebody. 
This Government has not visualized anything like that. At the outbreak of war, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  suggested the appointment of an unpaid committee of members whose responsibility would be to see that the country got full value for the money it expended. That proposal was ridiculed by the Government. What is being done with respect to the rents of factories? Has any effort been made to ascertain whether fair rents are being paid, and how many properties are rented - some from persons from whom they should not have been rented - and how many properties have been leased which are not being used? Information such as that should be disclosed, either in a secret or open session. 
At the outbreak of war, I delivered a speech on the subject of profiteering, in the course of which I said there ought to be no profiteering either by wageearners, by farmers in the sale of primary produce, or by private enterprises engaged in the manufacture of armaments, munitions and essential war requirements. I should like to know why excessive overtime is being worked in some munitions factories and allied industries while there are thousands of men unemployed. 
I shall tell the honorablesenator. A fortnight ago in the English Parliament,  Mr. Ernest  Bevin said that long hours had been tried and had failed because the output had not been so good as it was when shorter hours were worked. For that reason, shorter hours were being reverted to and more shifts were being worked in order to increase output. Any one who has  had experience in industry knows that workers reach a point when exhaustion results in inefficiency. 
Profiteering in overtime should not he permitted. I do not for one moment suggest that all the people who are unemployed are capable of being put into skilled occupations, but I do say that every man who is able to perform a useful task in industry should be absorbed. It cannot bc denied that many thousands of men who are capable of taking their places in defence industries are now unemployed. My Queensland colleagues and I are constantly approached by men with all kinds of credentials seeking employment, but because of red tape, circumlocution and inadequate methods, no work is available for them and, as the result, their spirits are broken and their morale destroyed. "We are entitled to he told what the Government intends to do with regard to its next budget. I was horrified to read in a reputable Australian newspaper - the  Sydney Morning Herald -  the following statement, which bears all the evidence of truthfulness: - 
Thu belief that an election is imminent has recast ideas that the budget proposals which the Government proposes to introduce will contain un announcement of  further  tax increases. 
Many people in Australia have the " jitters " about the Government's taxation proposals. Fortunately. I am not one of those who get that way ; I approve of the tax on incomes because I hold that people receiving large incomes should be polled upon to pay their full share of taxation, especially in time of war. The statement goes on - 
Increased taxation is inevitable and the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  has prepared proposals for submission to the Cabinet. If an early election is to be held, however, it seems unlikely that the Ministry will press on with that immediately. However ready the public might be to bear the burden of financing the war effort, an immediate increase might cause adverse political reaction, even if it were only a minor note. 
There is more villainy in that sentence than I believed could possibly creep into the activities of any national government - 

 Mr. Spender has prepared an alternative financial statement which merely reviews finance and present departmental estimates for the year. Because the Treasury has sufficient finance to carry on until the end of the year, there is no reason why this  course should nol be adopted - 
There is one .reason - political decency - 
The Cabinet will probably make its decision at a meeting on Tuesday, when the session, which will last a month, will begin. 
Over and over again in this chamber, I have expressed my disgust at the jockeying and manoeuvring which has been evident in recent years between the two competing parties now composing the Government. But despicable though that activity has been, it is nothing compared to the suggestion that because an election is pending, the people of Australia should not be told what are the Government's taxation proposals. The Government has enough money to carry on during the present year, and of course it would not be good political strategy to scare the people stiff on the eve of the poll. If honorable senators can think of anything worse than that, I cannot. 
I not only believe it but I am satisfied that the reason the Government's budget proposals are not ready for presentation to this Parliament is that for political purposes they have had to be re-cast. That is in effect what the statement which I have just quoted says, and I believe that the legislation which the Government will bring clown this session will prove it. 
The Government is talking about introducing a bill to amend the War-time (Company) Tax Act. In' that connexion another very responsible Australian newspaper - root a Labour journal - says - 
The Federal Government will meet with considerable criticism if, in the bill now before Parliament, it intends to proceed with the proposed tax on all profits of companies over 8 per cent. 
In its present form the tax will not reach some of Australia's biggest and wealthiest companies. 
Of course it will not. It is not intended to reach them; it never does. I have already protested to the Government against the unfair incidence of taxation. The article, which, incidentally, was written by the financial editor of the 
Brisbane  Courier-Mail  - one of the  Sir Keith  Murdoch chain of newspapers - continues - 
An analysis of the latest profits of 60 major companies shows that only fifteen, or a quarter of them, will come within its scope. Many companies, leaders in their particular industry employing millions of pounds in their business, and whose names are household words, are among those which apparently will be missed. 
On the other hand, the tax may fall heavily on small companies with less capital and less solid reserves. On these companies seemingly, the Federal Treasurer is relying for the £4,250,000 which the tax is expected to yield in1940-41. 
It is intended to tax all profits of a company exceeding 8 per cent. of capital employed, that is its capital and reserves combined. 
-What about the reserves? 
Then I hope that the bill will make that clear in the definition. The statement continues - 
A company may earn 10 per cent. on its capital, but, if its reserves equal its capital, its percentage earnings to capital employed is only 8 per cent.- 
Of course ! 
Australia's big, well-established companies carry large reserves, which have been saved from the profits of previous years. They are in their leading position to-day mainly because of these reserves, amounting to 50 per cent., 75 per cent. or even 100 per cent. of the issued capital. Reserves mean strength, and consequently capacity to pay further taxation; but by a paradox, these reserves become the means for avoiding further taxation. 
Members of this chamber have a right to be given all available information as to taxation proposals. I do not think there is any need for a secret session in order that that information may be imparted. It willbe of no advantage to the enemy if we are told all of the truth; we have a right to be told the truth. We of the Opposition have a right to demand that the Government should tell us what plans it is making to deal with post-war problems when they arise, and they will not be long in rising. Strange though it may seem, some post-war difficulties are already confronting us, and their effect will be intensified in the years to come in a way that makes people shudder to contemplate. We have a right to know what the 
Government proposes to do about these problems, and as I have already said, we have a right to know when the Government intends to declare an "Australian policy ", not for war but for peace. When is the Government going to prepare the people for the realization that the world can never go back to the condition in which it was prior to the outbreak of war last September? The people have a right to know that, because from this war - unavoidably, I admit - a legacy of hate will be inflicted upon the world. In fact, it is being inflicted now. As I have already hinted, anybody who has a grudge against somebody else may have that person interned simply by sending an anonymous and unconfirmed message over the telephone, or by indulging in whispering. The legacy of hate from this war will extend far into the years to come unless the Government is prepared now to put forward some concrete ideas with regard to the kind of peace which it believes to be desirable and the kind of post-war world conditions which it is prepared to father or support. 
I think I have given some indication of the immensity of the problems of the present, as well as those of the future, as we of the Opposition see them. I do not retract one word of what I said at the outset of my remarks. The Labour party will accept its full share of responsibility. We shall fully co-operate with the Government in its war effort, but we decline to accept the view that we must not be critical, so long as our criticism is confined to proper limits and is not such as to be beneficial to the enemy, if published abroad. If there is information to which we should have access, and which can be made available only by means of a secret session, then we ask that a secret session be held. The Opposition definitely refuses to take part in a national government unless, along with responsibility, it has full power. We definitely refuse to prolong the life of this Parliament under any pretence, or in any circumstances, and we are in favour of an immediate appeal to the electors so that they may be given an opportunity to decide what kind of government they want. We shall be satisfied with whatever verdict is given by the people. The MenziesCameronThorby Government has no  mandate from the electors, and there can be no excuse for any extension of the life of this Parliament. We are ready to go to our masters and I ask the Government to facilitate that process. 
.- During the recess I travelled around Victoria a great deal. I found that the Government was commended for its decision to increase the strength of a home defence army by calling up the  20-25  years classes and permitting volunteers up to the age of  45  years to join the Militia. Satisfaction was also expressed at the formation of a volunteer home defence corps from amongst ex-service men. Nevertheless, there was a very decided expression of opinion that the Government had not gone far enough in organizing Australia's man-power not engaged in defence activities. Some scheme was needed which would embody the Returned Soldiers League Volunteer Home Defence Corps or would include every citizen able and willing to do some service. 
The scheme I have in mind is that drafted by one of the municipalities in Victoria. I had the opportunity to peruse the replies .by scores of municipalities throughout Australia to a circular letter outlining that scheme. The comments were favorable. In almost every reply co-operation was promised, provided the scheme had the Government's approval. Obviously no such scheme could come into operation except" as an activity under the Defence Department. I understand that the official answer was that the idea had some merit in it, but was unfavorably entertained because it would not be practicable to organize and train on a satisfactory basis the whole nation in addition to organizing, training and equipping the existing forces. Nobody disputes the gigantic task confronting the Minister for ' the Army  (Mr. Street),  particularly when at the outbreak of war his responsible officers had to start from scratch, so far as war equipment was concerned. Still, that is no reason why patriotic citizens ineligible for front-line home defence service should be discouraged. The scheme, as I read it, does not contemplate training every male citizen in the use of arms: That, is unnecessary except in certain isolated areas. The proposal is to organize the citizen population, so that in time of emergency they would not be stampeded by or be confused with a dozen different instructions. 
The people to whom I spoke were not cranks or alarmists, but merely average Australias citizens with little knowledge of strategy or tactics. They are intelligent men who have correctly summed up the present war as one not entirely confined to the nation's armed forces. These men will not be satisfied until they feel they are recognized and doing something. The public is in the right frame of mind for action. Why does the Government hesitate to take the opportunity now to encourage the local authorities to work out, in collaboration with the defence authorities, a second line, or third line, if you like, home defence scheme which, if not required in the present crisis, will be useful in years to come ? Australia must not be so indifferent to its defence in the future as it has been in the past. 
It is the present which concerns us. The whole world is in arms. Any day, dormant national ambitions may be aroused to decisive action. Britain's lone fight for existence may cause new enemies to feel that its position gives to them the opportunity to follow the lead of Italy, and without great danger to themselves gain new possessions and so expand their own power and influence. In such a situation, no country is in greater danger than our own. The very isolation, which has in the past been our greatest source of security, now becomes our greatest danger. With all its will to protect Australia, Great Britain is no longer in such a position as would justify us depending upon the Mother Country to keep us safe from invasion. We must depend on our own resources. But those resources cannot be utilized to the fullest degree without the complete organization of the whole community. It is not sufficient to rely on the resources of the Commonwealth Government alone; the whole machinery of government - Commonwealth, State and local instrumentalities - must be utilized to the utmost capacity to build up in the shortest possible time a system of national defence wherein  every man, in a time of emergency, can play an effective part in backing to the limit the army in the field. 
There must be no thought of capitulation or compromise. If invasion comes, it must be a fight to the finish.For us the words of  Mr. Winston  Churchill: "We shall fight on the beaches, fight on the landing grounds, fight in the streets, and fight in the hills ", have an even greater significance. No man, woman or child must be allowed to fall into the hands of the enemy. Livestock, foodstuffs and petrol supplies must be removed or destroyed well in advance of the invader. Auxiliary forces must be used to delay and harass the enemy so as to leave the field armies free to choose, as far as the circumstances allow, the best ground for giving battle. Necessarily, our field armies must be based on the large centres of population; necessarily, vast areas must be left unprotected by any army concentration. With an unorganized civilian population the greater part of Australia will become the happy hunting ground for raiding parties, which could be landed at localities remote from populous centres. The mere report that enemy troops had landed in unprotected areas along our coast would cause panic out of all proportion to their numbers. 
How is such a position to be met? Our army cannot dissipate its strength by detaching small garrison forces to anticipate possible landings in non-vital areas. If the Army cannot do it, what then? There is only one answer - auxiliary civil forces must be organized to detain and harass the enemy. Such auxiliary forces can readily be formed by utilizing the resources of the State and local governing bodies, co-ordinated and controlled by the Defence Department. To-day the defence of Britain includes over 1,000,000 men as auxiliary units to the fighting forces, who number about 4,000,000 men. Australia has 2,000,000 males of military age, 18 to 60 years, of whom, possibly, 1,000,000 are, or will be, in uniform or workmen's overalls. What of the remainder? Is there no niche for them in our home defence scheme? In dire need, scarcely any one could be regarded as indispensable in his ordinary occupation outside essential defence activities. Preparation should begin now for that contingency. Surely we have learnt something from the fate of Germany's victims, and shall not wait till the enemy is at our gate. 
I believe that every honorable senator has been supplied with a copy of the draft scheme to which I have already referred. Under these proposals eachof the thousands of municipalities and shires throughout the Commonwealth would organize an auxiliary home defence unit, the whole scheme to be controlled and directed by the Defence Department with the co-operation of State governments. Every member of each unit need not necessarily be armed, since fighting is not the sole function in every scheme of national defence. This force would at least be organized and disciplined, and would have some knowledge of the part civilians would be required to play in supporting the field army, and depriving the enemy of foodstuffs and other essential supplies. The value of the men embraced in this scheme, in taking the place of able-bodied young soldiers in the multitudinous duties behindthe forward area, is obvious. Helpless women, the aged, the infirm and children could be withdrawn from threatened areas and taken care of by the governing bodies in safer localities, able-bodied men taking their places at the point of danger. Unless some recognized defence organization of this kind, controlled by the Defence Department, be established, oncean invader appears, whether the Government likes it or not, nothing will prevent the virile men of this country from forming themselves into guerilla bands. Such men may be liable to be shot on sight. The Government's duty to the men of this country is to do all in its power to avoid the possibility of such a condition. 
Whilst we all hope to be spared the horrors of invasion, we must havethe courage to face the fact that it is now more than a possibility. Whether this or any other scheme be adopted, it is imperative that the full man -power of the nation, by one means or another, be marshalled to meet whatever fate awaits us. The problems of evacuation of the civil population in areas likely to be invested by the enemy, come within the scope of such a scheme, so does the preparation of emergency landing grounds.  No  doubt the military authorities have made plans as far as certain districts are concerned. It is very disconcerting, however, that these plans are kept a dark secret. One can only suppose that the intention is to keep them so until the last moment, but then, haste and unfamiliarity would make them more difficult to carry out. Surely prior knowledge of such arrangements can have no possible value to an enemy'* Foreknowledge by the people most concerned would obviate most of the panic and confusion which would ensue were an emergency suddenly sprung upon them. 
There are over 1,000 local governing authorities throughout Australia with an annual revenue approaching £30,000,000, with trained staffs and intimate local knowledge; but up to the present  they  are as much in the dark as anybody else. After nearly a year of war noi one communication, j am informed, has passed between the Defence Department and the municipalities. Cannot the Government realize that lack of trust begets lack of trust, that the best wa;&gt; to rally the people behind it, is to give responsible bodies work to do, commensurate with their resources and capabilities? Most people, if they think of it at all, regard evacuation as getting themselves and their families to a vague place, generally referred to as " somewhere inland ". Perhaps they give some thought to what means of transport they would use, but they leave it at that. This, of course, hardly scratches the subjectProperty must be guarded against thieves and vandals, until the last moment for possible re-occupation; petrol supplies must be destroyed if it be impossible to remove same beforehand. How man service station owners know how to destroy their stocks in a hurry? Byways to evacuees' destinations must bo thought out so as to leave the highways free for army use. Evacuees must have particulars of what is to be taken with them, when means of transport is limited. 
People without cars, the helpless and the stupid have to be cared for; supplies of food must be taken, and what is left behind destroyed. Public utilities nol  required  for the fighting services must be dismantled, and sheep and cattle driven off or killed. Who is to supervise all this work - personnel from hastily raised units, or from the local authorities whose daily work brings them into contact with the people affected? The strength of the field army must not be frittered away on such duties. On the journey, evacuees must be shepherded and controlled, and temporary shelter of some sort provided for those who travel by road. One assumes that those who travel by train would he left in the competent and kindly hands of the railway men, who are best fitted to do the job. The most difficult problems arise when the evacuees reach their destination. Who is to provide shelter, food and occupation? The vast majority would be without financial resources, whilst people from the urban areas would be unable easily to adapt themselves to the changed conditions. Problems such as these can  best  be handled by the local authorities who are familiar with the resources of the districts and the people amongst whom the evacuees must live temporarily. 
The present war has shown us that defence is more than a conflict between two armies. It is a different war altogether from, previous campaigns. Problems beyond the scope of officials in the Defence Department have to be solved. Who can best tackle those problems? The local authorities, both city and country of course. To succeed, the personnel embodied in any such auxiliary defence duties must he recognized under an official emergency organization. One is already in existence, namely, the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia Volunteers Home Defence Corps, which at present is restricted to ex-service men, organized on a military basis. The scheme to which I have been alluding envisages a far wider scope, and embraces all volunteer mala persons who are ineligible for enrolment in the front line fighting services. Scattered throughout Australia are thousands of middle-aged rifle club men. Though they were sworn in five years ago as Militia reservists, they probably are now too old for acceptance in that force. The majority possess their own rifles, and so would he a decided acquisition to any scheme. Tho merging of a'l  latent patriotic personnel in the existing volunteer corps of ex-service men would provide the ideal organization. I suggest that the Government investigate this possibility, and so swing behind it a greater public war effort. 
First, I endorse the complaint hy the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that honorable senators were not supplied with copies of the ministerial statement until just after the resumption of the debate this afternoon. 
Tes. That indicates to me that, in the view of the Government, the war is not a major issue so far as the Senate is concerned. It indicates to me also an indirect way by which attempts are being made to discredit the Commonwealth Parliament, and so pave the way to establish in Australia a totalitarian state similar to that which, exists in Germany. If there were the interest in the proceedings of Parliament that some honorable senators would have us believe exists, we would be treated with much more consideration and be given a reasonable opportunity to consider statements made by the Ministers. Also the attendance in this chamber would be better than it is. There is a saying that there are times when we have to wait patiently for the hard school of disillusionment to act when our reasoning fails. It seems to me that that applies to the Commonwealth Parliament as well as to people outside. Possibly it may be in Australia, as it has been overseas, some disaster must occur involving the loss of thousands of valuable lives and the destruction of millions of pounds worth of property before there will he that interest taken in the war that is warranted and is necessary. It seems to me that 'both by the way in which members are treated and the statement itself has been read that the attempt is being made to convey the impression to all that everything is all right, that we really have nothing to worry about, that the Government is fully capable of doing all ti at is required in. order to develop the defences of this country to the degree necessary. For our information a document has been issued entitled: "What is Australia Doing? War Facts and Figures ". " With the compliments of C. C. Dawson, Commonwealth Publicity Officer, Canberra ". Most of its contents is mere " eyewash " ; and perhaps dangerous. The impression sought to be created is that everything is all right. In the absence of any really worth-while information from the_ Government, reports that we receive from' authentic sources indicate that in the sources connected with the manufacture of munitions everything is far from being all right. It is dangerous to try to con,vey that impression, and it is something which possibly the Government may live to regret - to regret that it did not take Parliament into its confidence and tell it those things that it could tell, with the object of provoking constructive, even if hostile, discussion, so that suggestions might be made and proposals submitted whereby the whole position might be improved. Instead of that, we have this conspiracy of silence, this conspiracy of make-believe, this conspiracy of conveying false impressions. 
Now I come to the statement itself. I have not had the opportunity to study it as critically as it deserves, hut I should say, after the first reading of it, that it is a colourless document, simply a re-hash of what has appeared in the press, and couched in very general terms. The issue  of the statement itself suggests to me that the Minister responsible has said to the junior clerk, " Prepare something on the war for the Senate," and the junior clerk has said, " What shall I say, sir ? ", with the reply, " Anything you like; anything is good enough for the members of the Opposition and the Senate." That is what it appears to be. It is a carelessly framed word structure couched in general terms which may mean anything or everything. It does not give us anything that would provoke, initiate or help to initiate intelligent, constructive discussion which should take place in a chamber such as this. We have not been told all of the facts. In these circumstances we are forced to rely on our own judgment, and what I am about to say represents my judgment on the facts conveyed to me in reports which I  receive from men occupying prominent positions and well qualified to give me information. 
As my leader has remarked, the Government has received every consideration from this side of the Senate. We have not asked leading questions about what it is doing. We have, in  addition,  given to it powers which are unprecedented. I questioned the wisdom of  giving  such powers, but in the opinion of the Labour movement it was considered that everything should be done to assist it. We have accepted the Government on its face value, and, in return, we are called to Canberra to discuss a perfectly innocuous statement such as this. The whole thing is a farce, a fraud. It is  misrepresenting  the whole position to the people of this nation upon whom we rely to provide the means by which this country can be defended. The Government is ignoring Parliament. It must be prepared to accept the consequences, and, in passing, I would remind it that none can escape the consequences of his acts. Although it may be considered smart politics to do this sort of thing, those who are responsible will not escape the consequences. There may be the disaster to which I referred, or there may bo justifiable resentment of the people expressed in terms which members of the Government will not forget so long as they live. In any case, that  reaction  or repercussion is bound to take place. The statement contains this declaration - 
The defences of Britain have during the last two months been made so formidable that an invasion by either sea or air or both, would, beyond question, be  an  undertaking of extreme hazard. 
That reads very well, but I do not believe that it is true, and I shall tell the Senate why I do not believe that in England all is being done to defend England that could be done any more than I believe that all is being done that could be done in Australia. I direct attention to a statement which has appeared in the public press, and which, so far as I know, has never been challenged. I assume that it passed the censor in the ordinary way. It appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of the 2nd August, and was headed " Financing the War". It reads - 
There is further criticism of what is described as a lack of vigor in Britain's financial policy and the failure to apply compulsory powers to finance the war  effort. 
The  Financial News  editorially states that there are many who think that the bank rate should be forcibly reduced from the present level, and that there are complaints from the agricultural industry that lack of finance has impeded war-time efforts. "The savings campaign as making fair progress on a voluntary basis, but if inflation is to be avoided the authorities should face up to the necessity of instituting some action on stronger lines. Many quarters are being asked why thu institution of compulsory clearings should be so long delayed in the sphere of exchange control," the journal states. 
The  Daily Express,  which has already advocated a capital levy, returns to the theme, attacking the poor response of " mon with big money bags " to the appeal for support for the  2i  per cent, war bonds, and declaring that last week's subscriptions set a record low level of under £10,500,000, of which only £638,000 was interest free. The week's total subscribed by the "little man" was over £12,500,000 in sixpenny savings stamps, 15s. certificates and £5 defence bonds. 
Editorially, the  Daily Express  states: - " Do not think the big men are beaten by the little men because the big men are hard up. There is nearly £2,500,000.000 sterling lying in banks, of which only £30,000,000 has been lent to the Treasury. Banks, insurance and financial corporations hold tight thousands of millions sterling needed to buy guns, tanks and planes. If the big men will not respond to appeals for patriotism we must go and get the cash by a capital levy. If they will not give, we must take. 
The wealthy interests in England are refraining from either lending or contributing money for the defence of that country. Established publications not identified with the radical or Communist movements, or with any alleged subversive organizations, are saying that morn must be done. Personally I do not think that more will be done, unless increased pressure is exerted by the people of England upon their government. Even what has been done would not have been achieved, had it not been for that pressure, and particularly for the disaster following the despatch of troops to th, continent of Europe. The Government of Great Britain has been forced to act, but, even to-day, action that could be taken is being avoided. I suggest that the reason for this is that there is a school of thought in England that would prefer making the best possible terms  with Hitler to facing the probable outcome of this war. That school of thought existed in France, and probably in every other country that has been conquered almost without serious resistance. lt says, in effect, " We have to make our choice between Hitlerism and a probable state of affairs arising in England similar to that prevailing in Russia ". Whilst that school of thought is afraid to express those opinions openly, it  i3  doing the next best thing which it regards as effective. It is withholding the essentials for a better and more formidable defence. 
A similar school of thought is to be found in Australia. I base that opinion on the policy to which this Government is committed. Its policy is, as far as it is humanly practicable, to make this war, as was done in the last war, a payable business proposition for .the moneyed interests. I shall refer to a few figures to indicate what was done during the last war. In the publication entitled  What is Australia Doing f  the probable expenditure in connexion with the present war is set out under the heading "A £453,000,000 programme". This publication makes a comparison between the expenditure incurred during the last war and that expected during the present war, and it goes on to say - 
It is interesting to compare the corresponding expenditure for the war and defence programme of the last war. For the five years of that war the corresponding expenditure was about £270,059,000. 
In reply to a question submitted to him on .the 8th December last, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  stated that the principal cost of the last war was £572,995,845, and that the interest paid amounted to £305,149,140. The point is that the interest cost °f *ne 'as* war exceeds considerably the cost of that war during five years, proving that it was made a gilt-edged proposition for the moneyed section, which is still drawing interest in respect of it. lit is clear, therefore, that interests in England which are holding up most effectively the defence preparations being made in Great Britain are responsible for a similar condition of affairs in Australia. This war has been in progress for nearly twelve months, and I suggest that the Government has had ample time to do a great deal more than it has done to prepare for defence. On the 5,th July last  1.  addressed the following letter to  Mr. J.  B. Brigden, secretary to the Department of Supply and Development - 
I should be greatly obliged if you would let me have, at your earliest convenience, the number of employees at the munitions establishments in Victoria, and the number registered for employment at this date. This U in confirmation of a telephone message to your Department this afternoon. 
To that letter I received the following reply, dated the 10th July : - 
With reference to your letter of the 5th July, 1940, I desire to inform you that the number of employees at the munitions factories in Victoria as at the 30th June, 1940, is 8,506 males and 2,139 females, making a total of 10,645. The number registered for employment at the munitions factories in Victoria as at the 30th June, 1940, is 30,839, i.e. 28,700 males and 2,138 females. 
If the Government were doing all that is humanly possible to prepare effectively for the defence of this country, there would not he one unemployed man or woman who is capable of working. 
That is a pertinent question. Even if that figure were reduced by one-half, the number of unemployed would be greater than it should be. According to the figures published in the press, approximately 1,500,000 persons in Great Britain are now unemployed. The paragraph published in the  Age  newspaper states that approximately £2,500,000,000 of capital is lying idle in Great Britain. Why are so many persons unemployed? It is because those who possess the capital cannot see a profitable way in which to invest it. If unemployed persons could be engaged on work which would show a profit, not one man or woman would be idle. The capitalists in England are not lending their money or giving it to the nation because they are afraid that after the war there may be repudiation of the nation's war debts and that they will not receive an adequate return of their capital. To them monetary interests are of greater importance than the welfare of the nation. A similar policy operates in this country. If this Government were not committed to a policy of private monopoly, ownership, and control of our financial resources, the capital now lying idle in Australia would 
Lave been used long ago and would have provided employment for those able and willing to contribute to the defence of the country. The reason why such a large number of persons in Great Britain are unemployed when the nation is at war is that it is unprofitable for " fifth columnists " to invest their capital. They would prefer Hitlerism or Fascism in Great Britain to a possible Russian form of government. Governments as well as individuals cannot escape the consequence of their acts. If an individual is careless or dishonorable in his financial transactions, he has to pay the penalty. A government which controls the affairs of the nation is in a similar position. The British Government cannot escape the consequences of its acts. If, as I suspect, negotiations are proceeding behind the back of the British Parliament to come to terms with Hitler, as was done in France, something serious is likely to happen. 
I am saying with all the emphasis at my command that from the information -received from men qualified by education and experience 
They possess more intelligence than the honorable senator who is interrupting my speech by stupid interjections. 
I was surprised to learn that the members of our" defence forces had been informed that they cannot, bring their grievancesbefore their political representatives. 
I would not be so foolish as to suggest that nothing has been done; but what has been accomplished has been under pressure from a section of the British people. I trust that similar pressure will be exerted in Australia. I admit that in England there are many thousands of capable and loyal men and women who are doing their best to direct the attention of the Government to the influence of financial interests upon the nation; but I am referring more particularly to those who are not safeguarding the interests of Britain. 
If necessaryI could supply the honorable senator with a list of names. 
The Labour party has been asked to become associated with a national government. We cannot have a national government true to name unless it gives effect to a national policy. Such a policy cannot be introduced whilst our essential services and industries are controlled by private enterprise. The Government either has to give effect to the policy of the financiers to whom it is responsible, or to one which is in the interests of the nation. If the Labour party were foolish enough to become associated with a national government it would be responsible for some of the things which are now being done. For instance, under the National Security Act, a regulation has been issued providing that an employee shall not leave his employment without the permission of his employer; but the employer can discharge the employee at any moment should he so desire. Employers are given full power over their employees and can demand most unreasonable things tobe done whilst the employee has practically no redress. That is an instance of what is being done by a Government which would have us believe that it is giving effect to a national policy. Employers are masters of the situation. Employees in Australia are placed in a similar position to employees in Germany. If the Government expects to get results by such a policy it will be disillusioned. Another regulation provides that arbitration proceedings must be conducted  in camera  so that the public will not know what occurs. If proceedings were conducted in open court evidence couldbe adduced and the facts stated- 
Order ! I have given the honorable senator considerable latitude. I must ask him to confine his remarks to the subject-matter of the statement before the Senate. 
Molotov said that there had been no essential changes in Anglo-Russian relations, and referred sharply to what he described as Britain's hostile acts against the Soviet, although he admitted that the appointment of  Sir Stafford  Cripps as Ambassador to Moscow possibly reflected a desire by Britain to improve relations. 
The relations between Great Britain and Russia are not all that we desire, because the British Government is afraid that any collaboration with Russia may influence the British people to introduce the Russian form of government in Britain.  The .Economist,  a well-known publication, stated a week ago that we should not be concerned to-day with ideologies, and that, if possible, England should enter into a pact with Russia to the mutual advantage of both countries in time of peace or of war. There again we have an instance of a journal responding to the pressure of public feeling and advocating action which, before and during the war, was strenuously opposed. Therefore, when we hear a statement such as this which does not direct attention to facts, but merely attempts to evade the realities of the situation, we cannot treat it seriously, or regard it as worthy of consideration. 
Reference has been made to the possible attitude of Japan. I make no apology for mentioning the name of that country, because it is referred to in the Minister's statement. Certain negotiations with Japan have recently taken place. At least we have been told so, and I assume that that is the case; hut. as  Senator Collings  has said, no statement concerning this matter has been made to the Senate. "We do not know positively just what is the relationship between Great Britain and Japan. Was Australia consulted before Great Britain agreed to the closing of the Burma-road, or was this country ignored entirely? The Government does not tell us. Has a request been made to the Commonwealth Government to send troops to focal points at which they may he needed in case of hostilities with Japan? We are not told that either; but, no doubt, should thu position become so critical that it would be dangerous to withhold facts, we shall  be told what is happening. That, in effect,  would  be closing the stable door after the horse had escaped. If we were told now what negotiations have taker place with Japan, and what precisely is our relationship with that country to-cay, it would help the Government and itwould help us. I do not suggest ".hat anything should be said that might make the position of the Government more difficult than it is at present; but we should be told essential facts, so that in the light of intelligent discussion or criticism, the present methods may be altered, if wisdom dictates that course. 
One of the later paragraphs in the Minister's statement reads - 
We face the immediate future, therefore, with full realization of the difficulties ahead, but with complete confidence that, by careful and resolute guidance of our affairs, these difficulties ca.i be surmounted. 
Apparently the Government is more optimistic than I am, because, knowing the position as I do, I certainly do not face the immediate future with complete confidence. How can we have full confidence when we know (that our war effort is not anything like 100 per cent, efficient? How can we have full confidence when we are treated as if we were so many glorified schoolboys, and told only what, in the view of the Ministers, is absolutely necessary ? 
There is an unbridgeable gulf between the Nazi conception of a Europe dominated by the armed might of Germany and the British aim in this war, which is the restoration of freedom in Europe and the extinction once and for all from Europe and the whole world nf the threat of Hitlerism and all that it stands for. 
That paragraph also reads well to the non-critical reader, and is, perhaps, impressive to the subjective reasoner. The statement, however, is superficial and its real meaning is obscure. What is meant by the destruction of " Hitlerism" ? Does it mean that we are, if possible, to put Hitler up against a wall and shoot him, or does it mean that Hitler stands for a state of society to which we are opposed? The terms used by the Minister are ambiguous, and, in the absence of other information, one has to rely upon one's own judgment in interpreting them. My opinion is that should Germany be defeated to-morrow, the policy to which this Government and the Government of the United Kingdom are committed would not include the restoration of freedom in Europe. There can be no freedom, in the real sense of the word, whilst a few men have the right to exploit their fellow men for profit; whilst a few men have the right, as they have in England and in Australia to-day, to impoverish the wage-earners, and reduce them to the bread-line. 
I endorse the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and  Senator Cameron.  Actually, the Minister's statement was merely a  resume  of what has been published in the press. When members of the Commonwealth Parliament are brought together in Canberra from all parts of Australia, the Government should at least try to give them a little more information than they have received from the censored press. The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  advocated the holding of a secret session in order to permit the freest and frankest discussion of the war .position. We, on this side of the chamber, are considerably handicapped because certain statements are made to us by outsiders and, not knowing whether they are true or not, we are reluctant to argue them because we fear that anything we may say may have a bad effect upon the public mind. 
That is a good suggestion, and I shall act upon it in the future. 
The public is constantly being told in *he press and in wireless broadcasts that they must not be pessimistic, and must not take notice of rumour-mongers. Would not the better way to combat such rumours be to tell the public the truth? That is my opinion. The Master who died 2000 years ago said, " Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free ". So far as the war is concerned it would be better to tell the people of this country the whole truth. But it  seems  to be the considered opinion of the Government that much of the truth must be kept from the people, because it is afraid of them, and does not trust them. For this reason it refuses to tell tha people the full facts in relation to the prosecution of the war. Honorable senators on this side are afraid to ask certain questions because of the effect which the answers may have upon the public mind. That is the stand taken by the majority of the members of my party. A few of my colleagues contend that it would be better, perhaps, that the whole of the truth were told to the people. If Ministers will not tell us the whole truth openly, because they are afraid to trust the people, is it not possible to hold a secret session in order that we may gain the whole truth on matters which the Government refuses to divulge in the full light of clay? If, through a secret session, the Government can re-assure us as to the effectiveness of its war effort, then such a session of this Parliament would be justified. If the Government will not consent to hold a secret session, and, at the same time, intends to maintain secrecy in regard to any of its activities, then it will be our duty, as responsible members of the legislature, to ask openly questions on which we cannot now secure the whole truth. 
We are living in critical times; we do not know what might happen within the next few weeks. We do not know how the Eastern question will be resolved. Consequently, every member of this Parliament is anxious to refrain from doing anything that would jeopardize our war effort. I  know  that  Senator Dein  is convinced that it is the duty of Labour members in this Parliament to become part and parcel of a national government. We are convinced that we can best do our duty to the people by remaining an effective opposition. 
It has been said repeatedly by honorable senators 'opposite and in some sections of the press, that the Labour movement is not doing its duty towards the people because it refuses to accept responsibility in a national government. We accept the responsibility that has been placed upon our shoulders by the people who sent us here. As part and parcel of a democratic parliamentary system we must accept responsibility even as an opposition. In Parliament we criticize and question the Government, and debate policies. When policies have  been  resolved and put into operation, we must accept responsibility in the larger sense for such policies as part and parcel of our democratic system. At this moment of gathering darkness for Australia all of us realize what has happened in France and in the other countries which have fallen to Hitler. We know that if the conqueror of those countries should conquer Australia the Opposition in this Parliament would be " in the soup " just as surely as would honorable senators opposite. I have no illusions in this matter. If Australia falls, our parliamentary system will be eliminated, and all members of Parliament, irrespective of party, will be interned in concentration camps. Members of this chamber have responsibilities as leaders of two sections of the people. In times of peace we on this side have carried out our duty as an Opposition, and in this time of war we shall continue to discharge that duty. But should Australia be defeated, we, as responsible leaders of the people, shall suffer. We shall know what it is to be dragged from our seats, and treated as have been some members of the Government of France who to-day are on trial for their lives. Unless we get together solidly in the prosecution of our war effort it is possible that before many months pass Ave also shall be on trial far our lives. However, I agree with my leader that  we  on this side can best serve the people as a strong, forceful and intelligent Opposition until we become the Government. Surely there is nothing  wrong  with that point of view. I say to  Senator Dein  in all friendliness that members of the Opposition are as serious as he is in this matter. I say fairly and squarely to the honorable senator that the Government has an opportunity to resolve this matter of responsibility. If it is aware of an inferiority complex, or feels that it has not the men capable of carrying on the arduous task of government in war-time, it can immediately appeal to the people. Let that appeal be made. I have been among the people in many centres throughout the Commonwealth, and I know that they now say, "Let us clear the air; let the issue be made plain, and let the people be given an opportunity to say who shall govern; let us not continue the bickering that is going on among political parties at present ". Let the  people say who should govern, and when they have given their verdict let those selected to govern do their job. Let us end the pendulum politics which has been so evident during the last few months. 
The people are quite sick of the manner in which this Government is playing with important issues. I do not wish to disparage personally any honorable senator opposite. I have the greatest respect for every member of this Parliament. Only to-day, when a man with whom I was talking bitterly criticized a member of this Government, who, by the way, has himself been the most bitter critic of the Labour party, I replied that during my eight years' experience in this Parliament I had found members generally, irrespective of party, as decent a collection of men as could be discovered in any other section of society. I disagree with the conception of politicians as a tribe somewhat apart from ordinary individuals. However, I emphasize that the country is sick of the pusillanimity of the Government in respect of several important issues which have arisen lately. 
Petrol rationing is important, although some people are inclined to regard it merely as a side issue. Some time ago the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  made a statement on this matter, and every one was under the impression that he expressed the considered opinion of the Government. Consequently they accepted as inevitable his statement that petrol was to be rationed. They agreed that some people would have to put their cars on the stocks, whilst others would have to rely upon fuel other than petrol. But within a few days we were told that the statement made by the Minister did not represent the considered opinion of the Government, and the proposal he outlined was cast aside. Subse quently, two additional members were appointed to the Liquid Fuel Control Board, and within a day or two we expect to have the considered opinion of that body. The result of this confusion has been that hundreds of men throughout Australia have been thrown out of employment because so many businesses have been jeopardized. We of the Opposition say that if it is necessary to ration petrol, then it must be rationed, If our fight for democracy against totalitarianism involves a course which will result in the disintegration of every business in the country, then such a course must he accepted as inevitable, if its adoption means that we shall win out against those who are trying to force upon us other ideologies. But, how utterly stupid is the spectacle of a Minister announcing publicly a scheme for the rationing of petrol, and then three days later the Government saying that it has not considered such a proposal. In this instance the Government said, in effect, "  Sir Frederick  Stewart put that plan before you, but it is not our plan ". The people are heartily sick of such action. To-day they say : " If we knew where we stood, well and good; we should accept the Government's decision as something arising out of the war. But we have a government that does not know its own mind, and it is time that we had as leaders Ministers who do not do things off their own bat and without consulting their Prime Minister at a time when the democratic institutions of this country are in jeopardy." We need a strong leader, who will not tolerate independent action by minor Ministers. We want a man who will be a leader in the real sense of the word. 
Surely our democratic system is as capable of producing leaders as is the totalitarian system. However, we have not got such a leader to-day. I have the highest personal regard for the Prime Minister, but his Cabinet includes several budding duces and  fuhrers.  These men have a conception of democracy entirely different from tha.t held by the ordinary citizen. They want to rule on their own. If the Prime Minister is not strong enough to lead, then the country must find a man capable of doing so. 1 repeat that the Government should go to the people in order to let them decide who shall govern this country in the present crisis. Then let whatever government is elected carry on its work for the next three years with all the forcefulness at its command. Let us put an end to the pusillanimity of the present Government, and the bickering which we have witnessed within the last few months. A continuance of such a state of affairs will surely destroy democracy, because until a government can make up its mind it cannot hope to secure the backing of the people. No one deplores more than I do the disagreement which has been evident within the Labour movement. The majority of honorable senators on this side wholeheartedly support the Australian Labour party. We have one or two good friends who have seen fit lately, to leave the party. There is a struggle in the Country party. If what the papers tell us is true, its members are fighting about who shall be leader. In the United Australia party, too, there is dissension. These things, intensified and enlarged upon by the press, are the things that are destroying the people's conception of democracy. 
The Labour party is anxious that the best shall be done for Australia in the way of defence. A friend of mine was talking the other day to a man whose identity, for obvious reasons, I cannot disclose, though I may say that he is among the highest in the land.  His  name, if I mentioned it, would surprise honorable senators. That man, whom I also know, although I have not seen him for some time, was fearfully worried, troubled and upsetbecause of the lack of defence measures in Queensland. I shall not go any further than that, although.Icouldsayanumberof things about Queensland defences. It is all right to publish figures. That is the political game, and it is necessary, I suppose, to keep the people buoyed up. But we know that we could do far more than we are doing, and, when a. man of the high standing occupied by the man I mentioned says the things he does say, we must be very much worried indeed. This booklet,  What is Australia Doing?,  says - 
What is Australia doing in this war? What has been done? What is going to be done in the next two or three months? 
Three types of people ask these questions - (a) those who have un- Australian sympathies and want to damage our war effort; 
They are a very small portion of this community. 
those who want to score politically at the expense of the Government; 
I have no desire whatever to score at the expense of the Government, but I must be frank; otherwise I would be recreant to the trust placed in me. 
those who want to be assured that Australia is engaged in a full-blooded war programme. 
That is the position which I hope is taken up by every one in this chamber. That is my position, and that is why I speak as I do. 
Another aspect ofthis matter is that we feel, rightly or wrongly, that the Government is composed of a number of "yesmen " ; that oh a number of matters vital to the conduct of the war and affecting Australia this Government has not taken a definite and determined stand. Newspaper editorials have frequently called upon this Government to have a greater voice in the councils of the Empire instead of being merely " yes-men ". The position in the Pacific is one on which Australia should be heard. I understand that Norway and other allies of Great Britain have representatives on Britain's War Council, but Australia has none. I hope that the Minister will tell me whether that is right or wrong.I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 . - by leave - With regret I inform the Senate of the death of former  Senator Colonel James  Rowell, C.B., who died at Lockleys, South Australia, on the 6th July last. ColonelRowell was elected to the Senate at the general election in 1917 and was a senator until 1923. He was temporary  Chairman  of Committees from March, 1923, until the expiration of his term on the 30th June, 1923.  Colonel Rowell  had a distinguished military career. He commanded the South Australian detachment of military forces to Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, in 1897. He commanded the 4th Imperial 
Bushmen's Regiment in South Africa from May, 1900, to August, 1901. In 1900 he was made a Companion of the Most Honorable Order of the Bath. During the last war he served as officer commanding troops on transports to Egypt and England from April, 1915, to March, 1917. I express to his family sincere sympathy in their bereavement. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of former  Senator Colonel James  Rowell, C.B., places on record its appreciation of his distinguished public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
SenatorCOLLINGS (Queensland - Leader of the Opposition) [6.12].  -  It is fitting that I should associate the Opposition with the motion. We agree with what the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has said and extend our sympathy to the members of the family of the late  Colonel Rowell. 
It would ill-become me, as one who knew the late Colonel Rowell for the best part of half a century, not to pay tribute to his memory, not for the official services that he rendered this country, not even for the distinguished military service that was mentioned by the Leader of the Government, but because he was a man - one of Nature's gentlemen - whom this country can illafford to lose. He was a well-known horticulturist and was a descendant of a family which had engaged in horticulture for. centuries in the Old World. With his people he settled in South Australia. He was a perfect soul who never told a lieor turned away from danger. I pay my tribute to his memory. He was  a  man whom it was good to know. 
I associate the Country party with this motion. I did not have the privilege of knowing the deceased gentleman, but one feels that, when a man has the public spirit to go forth and brave the storms of public life, and has the splendid character that  Senator A.  J. McLachlanhas outlined, we ought to express our regret when he joins the harvest of the grim Reaper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has any action been taken to permit manufacturers of footwear in Tasmania to have the appraisement of hides, for Tasmanian use, carried out in that State, instead of the manufacturers having to bear the extra expense of freight between Tasmania and Melbourne for that purpose? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
I understand that there are only two tanneries in Tasmania engaged in the tanning of hides. Prior to the commencement of the hide and leather marketing scheme, inquiries concerning hide dealings in Tasmania allowed that Hobart tanning interests obtained most of their hide supplies from Melbourne and Sydney, and that there was no direct overseas export of Tasmanian hides, which were forwardedeither to Melbourne or Sydney. For those reasons no arrangements were made for the appraisement of hides in Tasmania. Some months ago, when there was a general shortage of hides in Australia by reason of tanners' increased requirements, the Australian Hide and Leather Industries Board mode arrangements for Tasmanian tanners to purchase their hide requirements direct from local suppliers, which is not permitted in other States, at prices in accordance with the table of limits for Victorian hide auction sales classifications and prices, less the estimated cost of freight that would be payable to transport the hides fromTasmania to the mainland. That is, in effect, their ordinary value. It does not appear that the establishment of a hide appraisement centre in Tasmania is necessary. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
In authorizing the seizure of books, pamphlets and other publications from persons suspected of being or known to be associated with subversive organizations or activities, did the Minister have prepared a list ofsuch books, pamphlets or other publications proposed to be seized, or did he instruct the officers responsible  to  use their own discretion? 
If sucha list was prepared, will the Minister supplya copy to the membersof the Senate for their informaton? 
If such a list was not prepared, will the Minister state if the officers responsible were qualified by an educational test to judge the nature of the books, pamphlets and other publications seized by them? 
If the officers responsible wore not so qualified, is it the intention of the Minister to have all such books, pamphlets and other publications which have been seized by them examined by other officers who are qualified, for the purpose of classification? 
Will the Minister state what is intended to be done with the books, pamphlets and other publications which have been seized, and if it is intended thatthey shall be retained by the Government or returned to the owners ? 
The Minister for Information has supplied the following answers: - 
No. 
See answer to question No. 1. 
The search was conducted by experienced officers and it was not considered necessary to put any special educational test to them before seizing the books. 
The Attorney-General has called for a list of the books, and officers are at present examining them. 
Amending Regulations (Statutory Rules 1940. No. 152) were made recently to permit of the expeditious disposal of books seized. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate what the Government purposes doing with the 31,000 men and women registered in Melbourne for employment in the munitions factories of Victoria? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: - 
Additional employees required for the government munitions establishmentsare being drawn from the registered list, and it is thought that a number of these applicants who possess the necessary skill, who cannot immediately beemployed in munitions establishments, may be absorbed in industries that will be expanded as a result of the Government's munitions production programme. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the charge for a three-minute conversation with a person in Britain? 
What is the charge made for the same length of time to a soldier's wife or relative? 
If there is no reduction in the charge made, will the Government give consideration to granting a reduction to soldiers' wives or relatives? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers :  - 
The charge for a conversation of three minutes duration from Australia  to  Great Britain is normally £410s.  on  Mondays  to  Fridays and £3 on Saturdays. 2 and 3. By arrangement with His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom the Anglo-Australian radio telephone service has been suspended since the outbreak of war. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice- 
Will the Minister supply an answer to my question of the 30th May, relating to the termsand conditions of the contract entered into between the Federal Governmentand Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited for the processing offlax fibre? 
What was the price offered to the Australian Government by the British Government when it forwarded 400 tons of flax seed and asked Australia 'to grow a quantity of flax for the British Government? 
Will the Minister inform the Senate which is the most essential product he requires the farmers of Australia to produce to assist in the war effort, apart from flax? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
Before the contract was finally made, the British Government requested the assistance of the Commonwealth in stimulating flax production and as a result the pro posed contract with Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited, has been deferred. The Commonwealth, will control all flax production in Australia this year. The price per ton will be relative to the value of the fibre. 
Various prices have been named by the British Ministry of Supply ranging from£96 sterling per ton to £180 sterling per ton c.i.f. English ports according to quality of the fibre. 

 Senator McBride, Assistant Minister for Commerce, made a statement yesterday on agricultural questions. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What is the annual rental for the rooms occupied by the personnel of the Empire Air Force in the recently constructed Century Building at the corner of Swanston and Little Collins streets, Melbourne? 
Who pays this rental, the British Government or the Commonwealth Government? 
Howmany of the persons employed there have been enlisted for administrative duties as distinct from ground personnel and intheair personnel? 
The replies to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
There are no rooms occupied in Century Building by personnel of the Empire Air Force. All the rooms occupied are occupied by personnel of the head-quarters of the Royal Australian Air Force. The annual rental is £14,549. 
Commonwealth Government. 
Personnel employed at Century Building consists of: - Royal Australian Air Force officers. - General duties branch, 50; administrative branch and special duties branch, 22; equipment branch, 15; medical branch, 7; commissioned warrant officers, 11; total 105. Airmen. - Clerks, 210. Civilians.- Clerks, typists, messengers, cleaners, &amp;c., 300. Total,615. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the colour patches worn by the present Australian Imperial Force infantry are the same as those worn by the old Australian Imperial Force infantry, with the exception of the 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Battalions ? 
If that be so, will the Minister give instructions for the colour patches of these famous battalions to be " perpetuated " in the Australian Imperial Force? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
No, there are other units which are not represented. 
As far as possible all distinguishing colour patches, as issued to the various unite of the original Australian Imperial Force, are being reproduced with a light battleship grey background and allotted to units of the second Australian Imperial Force. Owing to the change of organization in the present force from that of the original Australian Imperial Force, some differences are unavoidable, as the actual number of battalions in a division has been reduced. The unite mentioned by the honorable senator were initially part of the First Division, but were subsequently transferred to form part of the Fourth Division of the original Australian Imperial Force. It is hoped that it may be possible for the colours of the 13th, 14th, 15th and 16th Battalions to be reproduced and allotted to units of the second Australian Imperial Force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What quantity of canned fruits has the British Government purchased since the declaration of war, from the United States of America and Australia respectively? 
What was the price per dozen tins in each transaction, and how docs it compare with the 1938-39 price? 
What is the increased percentage in freight and insurance due to war risk? 
What are the prospects of the balance of this year's pack being sold to the British Government ? 
Is it a fact that the average expenditure of £23 per acre is entailed before harvesting; if so, can the Minister give any guarantee as to what quantity of next season's pack will be sold  to  the British Government? 
If not, will the Government take steps to ensure preference being given to Australian canned fruit? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
I have no official advice as to what quantity of canned fruits has been purchased from the United States of America. The United Kingdom Government has purchased 750,000 cases of Australian canned apricots, peaches and pears from the 1940 pack. 
I have no official advice regarding American prices. As far as Australian prices are concerned, as we are still negotiating for the sale of the balance of the 1940 pack, and other countries are also negotiating with the United Kingdom Government in competition with us. it is not considered advisable to disclose the prices at present. 
Freight rates have increased from £2 10s. per ton to £4 5s., equivalent to 70 per cent. War risk insurance has increased from1/4 per cent. to 4 per cent., an increase of 1,500 per cent. These costs were borne by the British Ministry of Food, as the purchase was on an f.o.b. basis. 
Representations are being made by the Commonwealth Government to the United Kingdom Government in an endeavour to dispose of the unsold balance of the 1940 pack. 
I have no information concerning the average expenditure per acre before harvesting, and am not in a position to give any guarantee in connexion with the disposal of next season's pack. 
All possible steps will be taken to ensure that the best arrangements will be made for next season's exports. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
How many sacks of potatoes were rejected by the New South Wales authorities from those imported from New Zealand this year? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The New South Wales authorities ordered that approximately 1,200 sacks of New Zealand potatoes should be picked over. A large proportion of these was. however, rebagged and sold as No. 1 grade; those from which a small portion had been cut were sold as No. 3 grade; a small number would have been rejected entirely. 
Australian-grown potatoes, as well as New Zealand potatoes, are frequently picked over on the wharf. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Who purchased the potatoes recently imported from New Zealand - the Government, or Sydney merchants? 
What price per ton was paid for them f.o.b. New Zealand? 
What quantity was purchased, and is the supply of New Zealand potatoes into Australia to continue, regardless of the thousands of sacks now awaiting shipment on Tasmanian wharves for Sydney? 
The arrangements for the importation of New Zealand potatoes provided for the marketing to be undertaken by the New Zealand Internal Marketing Department. The Producers Co-operative Distributing Society, Sydney, is acting as Australian agents for the department. 
See answer to No. 1. 
Arrangements were made in June for the New Zealand Government to export approximately 5,000 tons of potatoes to Australia - 1,000 tons per month for the months of July, August and September, and 2,000 tons at a later date - to meet a shortage in the Australian supply. Latest advices indicate that under normal conditions the Australian market will absorb the total Tasmanian production and the New Zealand shipments. In the meantime to conserve the Australian stocks, deliveries from Tasmania are being regulated. By this means it is hoped that a shortage with its accompaniment of high prices will be averted later. Under the arrangements made for controlling supplies, excess stocks on the wharves in Tasmania are not being allowed to accumulate, and no deterioration has taken place in Tasmanian potatoes on account of New Zealand shipments, lt was necessary to introduce these shipments gradually over a period, because there was no guarantee that shipping space would be available for concentrated shipments in a short period when the Tasmanian supplies were approaching exhaustion. In. controlling shipments the Government is maintaining a constant check upon supplies available not only in Tasmania but nieo in the other States, and every effort is being made to regulate weekly deliveries in accordance with the supplies available and with the desire of the Government to maintain a price that is equitable to both producers and consumers. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
In view of the impending petrol rationing scheme, has the Government given consideration to measures designed to encourage the manufacture and use of producer-gas units? 
If so. can the Minister give any information on this subject? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: -  1 and 2. The Government has already given, and will continue to give, every encouragement to the manufacture and use of producergas units. A technical advisory committee has been set up at my 'department, and facilities have been provided in some States and are in course of establishment in the other States whereby manufacturers may submit their units for test and approval. A Director of Substitute Fuels has been appointed for the purpose of implementing the Government's decision that the production and use of substitute fuels, including producer gas and charcoal, should be extended to the utmost limit. A producer-gas committee has been set up in each State to investigate and advise on any producer-gas and charcoal problems which manufacturers and users may have. The Government recently guaranteed the sale of 425 producer units with a view to encouraging their manufacture by mass production methods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that last December the Government refused assistance to the company at Glen Davis for the production oE an additional 20,000,000 gallons of petrol yearly? 
Is it a fact that the assistance desired was exemption from excise similar to that provided in tho agreement on the production qf the first 10,000,000 gallons yearly? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers : -  1 and 2. During December,  1939, the Government gave consideration to the action that would be necessary to increase the output of the Glen Davis shale oil project by a further 20,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum, but it was found that it would be preferable to defer consideration of the matter until more reliable information could be obtained following upon the more advanced development of the project towards the original anticipation of output of 10,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum. Since that date the Government has decided to protect all shale and coal spirit to the extent of 7.4d. per gallon over imported petroleum spirit and 5.5d. per gallon over petrol refined in Australia from imported crude oil for a period of fifteen years on the understanding that there will be no limit as to the quantity which can be produced; but production must be undertaken within the next two years. These were the full rates of duty which applied to these imported products prior to the outbreak of war. It is expected that, as a result of this protection, production will be expanded at Glen Davis and will be undertaken in other localities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
In regard to the rationing of petrol, will the Government give first and special consideration in supplying petrol to those country residents who need petrol for carting wheat and other produce, and similar purposes, and whose only means of transport between their farms and the railway is by motor transport? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: - 
The Commonwealth Liquid Fuel Control Board includes a representative of the rural industries in its personnel, and the honorable  senator may be assured that the interests of those country residents who require petrol for the cartage of farm produce will be adequately safeguarded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
In view of the necessity for petrol rationing, will the Minister inquire into the alleged waste caused by overlapping and lack of coordination of motor transport at military camps, as reported in the newspapers? 
Will the Minister consider the appointment of a transport co-ordinating officer to conserve petrol supplies? 
There  is  no evidence of waste by overlapping and lack of co-ordination of motor transport at military camps. Horse transport has been provided at camps for short distance haulage in order to conserve petrol. 
No. Ample safeguards are provided at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that regulation 15 of the National Security (Fire-arms and Explosives) Regulations (Statutory Rules 1940, No. 108) has been amended? 
If it has not been amended, will the Minister state whether an order has been privately issued to the New South Wales police countermanding regulation 15 of the above regulations ? 
If such an order has been issued, will the Minister inform the Senate who are the persons concerned in thus interfering with a Commonwealth law ? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
No. 
See answer to No. 2. 
.- I move- 
That regulations Nos . 1, 2, 3 and 4, under  the  National Security Act 1939-1940, contained in Statutory Rules 1940, No. 128, be disallowed. 
I have moved for the disallowance of the regulations in Statutory Rules, No. 128, issued under the National Security Act passed on the 21st June, 1940, because these regulations, which are the first instalment of industrial conscription, supersede Statutory Rules, No. 91, issued on the 24th May, 1940. Clause 2 of regulation 59a reads -  (2.) The training and employment of any person in accordance with any such arrangement shall be lawful notwithstanding anything contained in any enactment other than the National Security Act 1939, or in any instrument (including any award, determination or agreement) having effect by virtue of any such enactment, but nothing in this regulation shall authorize the imposition of any form of industrial conscription. 
Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of Statutory Rules, No. 91, are identical with clauses 1, 2 and 3 of Statutory Rules, No. 128, with the exception that the vital words " nothing in this regulation shall authorize the imposition of any form of industrial conscription" are omitted from clause (2) of thelatter. The omission of these words, which are so vital to the workers of Australia, have compelled me to move for the disallowance of the regulations. The Minister cannot deny that those words havebeen omitted, and that the amended regulation means the removal of the safeguard which existed to prevent industrial conscription. The regulations issued on the 24th May, 1940, prohibited any form of industrial conscription ; but on the 21st June the Government amended the legislation to permit the marshalling of men, women and children and to subject them to certain forms of industrial compulsion. The Defence Act provides that only persons between the ages of 18 and 60 years can be called up for military service in the Commonwealth; tout under these regulations there is no age limit, and it is possible to apply industrial conscription to boys and girls of fourteen years of age and under. These regulations give the Government the right to take children from the control of their parents and to place them in industry, and in that way prevent their parents from directing their education. They can also be deprived of the right of determining the employment in which they shall be engaged. That can. be done unless their parents can give good reasons why their services are required elsewhere, or they are able to secure a permit to leave their present place of employment. Under the regulations no employer could accept  them for service unless they produced from their previous employer a certificate that they had completed their term of employment or that their employer was prepared to allow them to leave. This is the first step to secure deliberate control over the people of Australia. In effect, clause 1 of regulation 59a provides that if it appears to the Minister that the efficient prosecution of the war is likely to be prejudiced by reason of a shortage of persons skilled in any particular trade, he may introduce other persons into the industry. This, of course, will lead to the dilution of labour, which will be done on the recommendation of  Mr. Essington  Lewis or of a State Munitions Board. Naturally the Minister would agree to any request made by those authorities. Therefore employers would be subject to the direction of authorities other than this Parliament. Who are the members of these boards which have such power? Let us examine the political credentials of the sponsors of the so-called Labour representatives.  Sir Phillip  Goldfinch, who is the  chairman  of the New South "Wales Munitions Board, is manager of the sweetest of all monopolies, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, and a former United Australia party member in the New South Wales Parliament. There is also  Mr. T.  J. Hartigan, Railways Commissioner for New South Wales, and  Mr. F.  Kneeshaw, general manager of the Australian Portland Cement Company. He was, and may still be, a member of the United Australia party consultative council. As a New South Wales senator I am not well acquainted with the . personnel of the Munitions Boards of Victoria and Western Australia. In Victoria the  chairman  of the State Munitions Board is  Sir Alexander  Stewart, consulting engineer and director of various industries, including subsidiary companies of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. He is not likely to be a Labour sympathizer, and does not appear to me to be a suitable selector of labour representatives.  Sir Alexander  has the valuable support of  Mr. Norman  Harris,  chairman  of the Victorian Board of Railways Commissioners, and  Mr. 
Charles Ruwolt, a leading engineering industrialist. In Western Australia the  chairman  of the board is  Mr. R.  0. Law, the  president  of the Cham'ber of Manufactures. The other members of that board are  Mr. Ellis,  the Railways Commissioner ;  Mr. Brisbane,  a leading manufacturer;  Mr. Tomlinson,  a leading industrialist, and  Mr. F.  Mills, the chief mechanical engineer of the Western Australian Railways. In view of the power given to  Mr. Essington  Lewis he is virtually Parliament, Cabinet and Prime Minister combined. The workers will not forget that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is the greatest iron and steel monopoly in the world, and has for years been an industrial octopus and the arch-enemy of the workers. The socalled labour members appointed to the Munitions Board include  Mr. Cranwell,  of New South Wales, who was not appointed by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions or the Trades and Labour Council, and was not recommended by any union. He was appointed 'by those who control the Munitions Board in New South Wales. In Victoria the labour representative is  Mr. Cleary. His  appointment was not recommended by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions or by the trade unions. In Western Australia  Mr. Trainor,  who is the labour representative, was recommended, not by labour organizations, but by persons who support this Government. The Prime Minister admitted in the House of Representatives yesterday that the labour representatives were selected and appointed by the Munitions Boards. The trade-union movement did not recommend these people for the jobs, and, as a consequence, trade unionists will not have any more faith in them than they have in other members of the Munitions Board. Apparently, on the recommendation of such men as  Mr. Essington  Lewis the Government has already agreed to the dilution of labour in some defence industries. Under regulation No. 2 the Government is empowered to break all arbitration awards whether they have been made by agreement between the parties or by decisions of the arbitration courts. Clause 3 of this regulation permits the dilution of skilled labour by unskilled or juvenile labour. This is a most extraordinary procedure. In Australia there is ample scope for the absorption of unemployed in key industries, without resorting to the use of juvenile or female labour. There is a danger that this action will give rise in Australia to the same state of affairs which existed in Great Britain during the last war, when women and children were given jobs in munitions factories. On that occasion the trade unions were promised that the measure was only a temporary one, and that normal conditions would be reverted to upon the cessation of hostilities. That promise was not honoured and' now, although 25 years have elapsed, the men have not gone back into the factories. Instead they are on the unemployed scrap-heap. Women are doing their jobs. The same thing will happen in this country if these regulations are not disallowed. Under this provision for the dilution of labour unscrupulous employers will be able to employ skilled men at labourers' wages. 
Clause 4 of regulation No.  2  provides, amongst other things: - 
For the purposes of this regulation " munitions of war " includes the whole or any part of any ship, submarine, aircraft, tank or similar engine, arms, ammunition, bombs, torpedo, mine, or other article, material or device . . . 
That means that this regulation applies to almost every Australian industry. It applies to any " article, material, or device " and is so far-reaching that it will affect practically every factory in the Commonwealth. 
Very well -  . . (whether actual or proposed) intended or adapted for use in war. 
That does not affect my claim that the regulation will cover every industry and every factory in Australia. It will cover the production of screws, boots, clothes, food, all rural products and, in fact, almost everything that is made in this country, because, directly or indirectly, all articles produced are used for war purposes. 
I doubt that  Senator Dein  knows enough about this matter to interpret correctly these regulations. If he seeks expert advice he will discover that the language is so comprehensive as to include all industries. Obviously it is the intention of the Commonwealth Government to industrially conscript the workers of Australia.  Mr. Essington  Lewis will have complete control of the various munitions boards and, through them, of the lives of the people of this nation. For that and other treasons, these regulations should be disallowed. Surely no honorable senator is in favour of taking away from the working man his individual rights. Clause 1 of regulation No. 3 states - 
An employer shall not engage any employee to whom this regulation applies unless he produces - 
a document signed by the employer by whom he was last employed stating that he has consented to the termination of that employment; or 
a written permit issued by the Director of Labour, Department of Munitions, or by a person authorized by him to issue such permits. 
I have here a letter written by  Mr. A.  S. Ford, manager of the small arms factory at Lithgow, to  Mr. W.  F. Cannon, 6 First-street, Granville, New South Wales, stating - 
With reference to your telephonic conversation with our  Mr. Forsyth,  requesting certificate of permission to leave the employment of this factory, you are hereby notified that as you have already left this factory without permission, no future action can be taken. However, we would inform you that should you be desirous of again seeking employment at this factory in the very near future, your application will receive every consideration. 
Believing that this Statutory Rule 128 under the National Security Act would not become operative until the following Monday, this man Cannon and twelve others decided to leave the Lithgow small arms factory on the Friday. They discovered subsequently that these regulations which were laid on the table of the House only yesterday had become effective as from the 5th July. As a consequence, the men are now unable to obtain employment anywhere else, unless they first return to Lithgow and receive certificates of permission to leave that factory. 
Because they believed that when the National Security Regulations were introduced they would be unable to receive increments in their wages. They were offered better jobs and they decided to leave Lithgow. 
Of course they did. But they saw no reasons why they should not be able to help the war effort and, in accordance with their democratic rights as Australians, benefit themselves at the same time. 
They sought better jobs and better pay. Surely that is the prerogative of every man and woman in Australia. These regulations prevent advancement and destroy initiative. Regulation No. 4 prevents an employer from offering an employee wages in excess of those provided in the second schedule. That is a denial of the first principle of arbitration, which merely fixes the minimum in awards. It compulsorily makes the minimum the maximum, and leaves no margins for tie recognition of skill and efficiency. Clause 2 of regulation No. 4 does not reduce the higher marginal rate payable to persons engaged before the introduction of the regulation, and as a consequence, an undesirable state of affairs will arise in factories in which men doing the same work on the same machines will be paid different rates of pay. Fully-skilled men going into defence industries now will not be paid the same wages as others who went in prior to the making of these regulations, although their work in each case is identical. 
That is so, but it does not allow an employer to pay a greater margin than that provided in the second schedule. Clause 2 of regulation No. 4 reads - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Regulation the pay of any employee who, at the commencement of thisRegulation was employed in any of the classifications mentioned in the Second Schedule to these regulations and was in receipt of a higher marginal rate (exclusive of hourly hiring and shift allowance) than is specified for that classification in the second column of that schedule shall not be reduced by reason of this regulation. 
That means that if an employee were working in an industry prior to the making of these regulations, and was receiving a higher remuneration than that specified in the schedule, he would not be reduced in salary; but should a man obtain employment in a factory now, then, despite the fact that he might be doing the same kind of work and using the same machines as his fellow employee, he would not receive the same extra margin. That state of affairs would foment trouble in a factory. For that reason I ask the Government to disallow the regulations. 
When the bill was before the Senate we told the Government what would happen. Senators Armstrong, Arthur and myself voted against the bill because we knew that these regulations would follow. We do not propose to interfere with the first or second schedules which merely set out classifications and marginal payments. So far, it would appear that the Government does not intend to attack these standards; but no doubt they will be attacked in the future. We shall not be a party to any interference with them because we regard them as the irreducible minimum. 
SenatorFOLL (Queensland - Minister for the Interior) [3.44]. - I am quite sure that there is no need for me to ask the Senate not to agree to the motion submitted by  Senator Amour,  who claims to be the leader of what he calls the non-Communist Australian Labour party. The attacks made by the honorable senator upon some of the most reputable trade-union leaders in this country contrast strangely with his claim to be the leader of any section of the Labour party. This agreement has been entered into between the Government and the Amalgamated Engineering Union solely for the purpose of enabling us to proceed as rapidly and efficiently as possible with the manufacture of our munitions requirements.  Senator Amour  knows that the greatest difficulty with which we have been confronted in the past in this connexion has been a serious shortage of skilled labour. 
I can lay the blame foi such a state of affairs largely at the door of the honorable senator and his political friends. 
The short-sighted policy supported by the honorable senator of refusing to allow boys to be trained as artisans is very largely responsible for the position that we are faced with at the present time. In entering into this agreement with the Government, the Amalgamated Engineering Union has shown far more patriotism than  Senator Amour  has exhibited this afternoon in moving for the disallowance of these regulations. The honorable senator endeavoured to lead us to believe that the regulations provide for what he termed the conscription of labour in every walk of industry. He knows perfectly well that exactly the reverse is the case. The regulations provide for the carrying out of an agreement in relation to certain classes of labour which are set out definitely in the first schedule. Honorable senators are aware of the numerous appeals made by the Government for the co-operation of workers of all classes in order to enable us to utilize our manpower in industry to the full in carrying out our war programme. The regulations are designed to help us to achieve that objective. In addition, the rights of workers affected are completely protected under these provisions.  Senator Amour  objected to any prohibition designed to prevent skilled men from travelling from shop to shop, with a view to securing higher wages. ' Every honorable senator will admit that in view of the urgency of munitions manufacture, we should do everything possible to prevent competition of that kind. Indeed, that has been one of the difficulties with which we have been confronted when we have previously attempted to utilize our skilled labour to the full. As the result of open competition between shops, operations in various units in munitions manufacture were seriously disturbed and the output retarded. 
The union is a party to this agreement, which is set out in the  Gazette,  of the 8th July, signed by the  president  of the Amalgamated Engineering Union. 
-Does the agreement provide for the issue of these regulations? 
 A similar responsibility should he placed upon the employer. 
I point out that no complaint against this agreement has emanated f rom the members of the union concerned. Tt has simply come from  Senator Amour,  who is protesting simply because of the political "scrapping" that is going on in the ranks of honorable senators opposite. The honorable gentleman said that those who claimed to speak on behalf of the men involved were not leaders of industrial unions. The gentlemen who signed the agreement on behalf of the union are industrial leaders of the highest repute, and they render a far greater patriotic service to Australia than  Senator Amour  when he seeks to have this regulation disallowed. Under the regulation, unscrupulous employers will be prevented from inducing skilled workers to leave employment which is most vital to the interests of this country. If the schedule of rates, which forms pari of the regulation, were to disappear to-morrow, the wages of the men concerned would be automatically reduced by approximately 6s. a week. If honorable senators opposite had had the same experience that I have had in connexion with the construction of defence works, they would readily realize the necessity for this system of the dilution of skilled labour. Recently, in order to expedite construction on certain defence works, we found ourselves obliged to draw on skilled labourers engaged on unimportant private work. It was in connexion with that matter that I sought,  Mr. Chifley's  intervention. 

 Senator Amour indulged in cheap sneers at the expense of industrial leaders, whom he described as prominent members of the United Australia party. That shows just what kind of a man the honorable senator is. There is no greater or better industrialist in this country than the Director-General of Munitions Supply,  Mr. Essington  Lewis, the head of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. As a member of the Ministry, I have had the opportunity to witness the industrial revolution that  Mr. Lewis  has brought about since taking control of the Munitions Department. Honorable senators may be interested to know that ever since the outbreak of war he has given the whole of his time to the service of this country without one farthing reward. That is more than can be claimed by  Senator Amour.  The way in which  Mr. Lewis  . has organized industry in this country is a tribute to his genius. We should go down on our knees and thank God that we have a man like him willing to devote himself to the interests of the nation in its time of crisis. Who are the other men at whom the honorable senator gibed? Every one of them is a man who has been responsible for the creation of industry and employment in Australia. They should not be sneered at in this Senate because they have been successful  in the industrial world and are ready to come forward and give their services to this country at this time. These men have all done something big in life, built ships, erected factories, created new industries and given work to thousands of people. Yet in consequence of a political feud in the party opposite, they are sneered at by a man like  Senator Amour,  who is not fit to clean their boots. I say that because I have knowledge of the service that they have given. There if no reason why the regulations should be disallowed, and I am certain that they will not be. The regulations are working well. The interests of the men are protected ; I know of no request from them that there should be any breaking of the arrangement that exists. The men engaged in the production of munitions realize the responsibilities that have been cast upon them. I am convinced that after the vote has been taken the regulations will continue to operate and that the defence programme will go on undisturbed. 
We have not yet had time to study these regulations. Copies were not available until this afternoon. In order to enable us to confer with the unions involved, I move - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I am now referring to the Amalgamated Engineering Union, in which all of the persons referred to in the second schedule to the rule, are employed. But employees in other sections of the metals industry, who do not come immediately under the provisions of this rule, are also desirous of being brought under it. I wish to be fair to these unions, and to say that, in the short time that I have had for a conference with them, I have ascertained that they have a decided dislike to regulation No. 3, giving power to do certain things to which the workers might take exception. I pointed out to them that the Opposition could not amend the rule, but must either agree to its disallowance or vote for its continuance. 
I realize that I shall be charged with supporting the Government in its nefarious designs to impose industrial conscription on the workers, but I can prove that that accusation is unsupportable. When Australia is threatened, as it is to-day, any government needs these powers in order to prepare satisfactorily at least for the defence of this country. I still think that the Government has not used its powers as adequately as it should have done. The defences of Australia should have been in a far more advanced condition than they are at the present time. There is nothing wanting in the powers already given to the Government, and I contend that it has fallen down on its job. 
The Opposition realizes that nothing is now to be gained by criticizing the Government for having left undone what it might have done; but we must face the realities of the situation, and do what is now urgently necessary. I regret that there should be any suggestion of a division of opinion on a matter of this kind. I shall read a communication that I have received from London. There, a personal friend of mine,  Mr. Ernest  Bevin, was, until lately, general secretary of the greatest transport workers' organization in the world, and is now Director of Labour. This organization in Great Britain has 750,000 members, not including railway men, who have their own organization. I want to show what a Labour man in that country is able to do. I know that, if they can prevent it, the members of this Government will not allow the state of affairs which I am about to mention to occur in this country; but they will be unable to prevent it. Before there is a trial of strength at the forthcoming general elections, I am anxious to free myself of any charge that I have ever done anything to prevent the Government from doing the right thing in its effort to provide for the defence of this country. The statement reads - 
We were not offered a balance of power in a national government.  Mr. Ernest  Bevin has been a loyal unionist and Labour man all his life; but because he is in England and not in Australia honorable senators opposite allegedly support his policy. If the position were reversed and he were an Australian Labour man, they would hate him and deride everything he suggested. 
Of course I am, but the honorable senator is always on the wrong side here. 
We do not deny that, if the situation deteriorates further, some such action as this Statutory Rule provides for must be taken. Although we hope that it will not, there is a strong probability that it may. This is One country in the world where every adult person enjoys a greater measure of liberty than do the people of any other country. I am merely stating facts and expressing the earnest hope that we will be victorious in the struggle in which we are engaged. I say without reservation that I oppose this motion for the disallowance of the regulations. If I could amend the regulations, I would endeavour to do so; but, under the Standing Orders, I have not that right, ft is the responsibility of every member of this Parliament to make himself acquainted with the laws of this country. I. a in not suggesting for a moment that the (Government is doing this job in the way that I think it should bc done. If the Government were amenable to reason, it would arrange for a secret session of this Parliament, such as has been sought, at which we could clear up some of the difficulties. Had such an opportunity been provided, I would have asked the Government to reconsider regulation No. ?&gt;, but we are denied that opportunity. Section 7 of the National Security Act reads - (1.) A person shall not, by reason of anything done by him on behalf of the Commonwealth during the period commencing on the twenty-fifth day of August, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine, and ending on the date of the commencement of this Act, be liable to any proceedings if the doing of that tiling could validly have been authorized had ti,is Act been in force throughout that period. (2.) Where during the period specified in sub-section (1.) of this section the GovernorGeneral or any Minister or officer has purported to make any regulation or order, or to do any act or thing which could have been validly made or done if this Act had been in force throughout that period, that regulation, order, act or thing shall be deemed to be as valid and effectual, and shall, at all times, as on and from the date of the making or doing of the regulation, order, act or thing, bc deemed to have been as valid and effectual, as if this Act had been in force on that date, and the regulation, order, act or thing had been made or done under or in pursuance of this Act. 
I know that honorable senators opposite are deriving a great deal of satisfaction from a situation which they created deliberately this afternoon in the -belief that it might prove embarrassing to us. 
If the supporters of the Government are not satisfied with the position, they should not have recorded the vote they did. 
The  PRESIDENT  (  Senator the  Hon.' J. B. Hayes). - I direct the attention of the honorable senator to Standing Order No. 415, which reads - 
No senator shall reflect upon any vote of the Senate, except for the purpose of moving that such vote shall be rescinded. 
I merely said that the supporters of the Government are deriving a great deal of satisfaction from a situation which they created. I then suggested that if they were not satisfied with the position, they should not have recorded the vote which they did. That was not a reflection on the vote of the Senate. This is not the place in which to reflect on votes cast; but the attitude of the Government in this matter will undoubtedly be mentioned on the hustings in a week or two. 
I know that it is disorderly to interject or to reply to interjections; but in order to protect every member of the Opposition from misrepresentation during the approaching election campaign, I ask the Minister for the Interior to remember that the Opposition in this chamber, with the exception of the two responsible for this motion, has never refrained from supporting any war measure which this Government has introduced. I hope that the Minister will bear that in mind and be honorable enough to admit it on the hustings. The Minister can reflect upon me personally, if he so desires. Having experienced political persecution, slander and misrepresentation since I was eighteen years of age, when first I became interested in politics, I have become inured to abuse from my opponents. I am, however, not unmindful of the honour which should be associated with the proceedings in this chamber and I do not wish Ministers to endeavour to score some mean political advantage by misrepresenting the party to which I belong. Honorable senators opposite have a perfect right to cite what we have said as recorded in  Hansard:  but they must not misrepresent us. I am making this appeal now in the hope that, later, they will not commit political perjury. 
Sections 8 to 13 of the National Security Act read - 
(1.) If, with respect to any proceedings (whether instituted before or after the commencement of this Act), the court (not being a court of summary jurisdiction) before which the proceedings are taken is satisfied that it is necessary in the interests of the public safety or the defence of the Commonwealth or any Territory of the Commonwealth so to do, the court - 
may give directions that throughout or during any part of the proceedings such persons or classes of persons as the court determines shall be excluded; and 
may give directions prohibiting or restricting the disclosure of information with respect to the proceedings. (2.) The' powers conferred by sub-section (1.) of this section shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other powers of the court. (3.) If any person contravenes any directions given by a court under sub-section (1.) of this section, then, without prejudice to the law relating to contempt of court, he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. 
(1.) Every document purporting to be an instrument made or issued by the Minister or any other authority or person in pursuance of any provision contained in, or having effect under, the regulations, and to be signed by or on behalf of the Minister, authority or person, shall be received in evidence, and shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to be an instrument made or issued by the Minister, authority or person. (2.) Prima facie evidence of any such instrument may, in any legal proceedings (including arbitrations), be given by the production of a document purporting to be certified to be a true copy of the instrument by, or on behalf of, the Minister or other authority or person having power to make or issue the instrument. 
(1.) Any person who contravenes, or fails to comply with, any provision of any regulation made in pursuance of this Act, or with any order, rule or by-law made in pursuance of any such regulation, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. (2.) An offence against this Act may be prosecuted either summarily or upon indictment, but an offender shall not be liable to be punished more than once in respect of the same offence. (3.) The punishment for an offence against this Act shall be - 
if the offence is prosecuted summarily - a fine not exceeding One hundred pounds or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both; or 
if the offence is prosecuted upon indictment - a fine of any amount or imprisonment for any term, or both. (4.) An offence against this Act shall not be prosecuted summarily without the written consent of the Attorney-General, or the Minister of State for Defence, or a person thereto authorized in writing by the Attorney-General or the Minister of State for Defence, and an offence against this Act shall not be prosecuted upon indictment except in the name of the Attorney-General. (5.) For the; purpose of the trial of a person summarily or upon indictment for an offence against this Act, the offence shall be deemed to have been committed either at the place in which it was actually committed or (subject to the Constitution) at any place in which the person may be. (6.) In addition to any other punishment,a court may, if it thinks fit, order the forfeiture of any money or goods in respect of which an offence against this Act has been committed. 
Any person who does any act preparatory to the doing of any act the doing of which would be an offence against this Act, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be punishable as if he had committed the firstmentioned offence. 
Where a person convicted of an offence against this Act is a body corporate, every person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, was a director or officer of the body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that he used all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. 
(1.) Any person who is found committing an offence against this Act, or who is suspected of having committed, or of being about to commit, such an offence, may be arrested without warrant by any constable or Commonwealth officer acting in the course of his duty as such, or by any person thereto authorized by the Minister, in the same manner as a person who is found committing a breach of the peace may, at common law. be arrested by any constable or person. 
Order! Has all this matter a direct relation to the National Security Regulations now under discussion? I have not a copy of them. 
I suggest to the Minister that the honorable senator to whom he has just referred should be excused. He and his party of one are playing the same kind of political game as the one to which I took objection when honorable senators opposite were playing it earlier this afternoon. 
.- It was quite a pleasure to listen to some parts of the speech just made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  because at times he forgot to argue, and poured out his soul with such enthusiasm as to reveal a robust patriotism which, coming from the Opposition side, was quite refreshing. Apparently  Senator Collings  was quite sincere and honest, when he made the admission, rarely heard from the other side of the chamber, that the object of this war was to preserve for Australians living conditions and working standards which are second to none in the world. That is very seldom acknowledged by members of the Labour party, and I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on that phase of his speech. At the same time, t regret that he has been placed in such an unenviable position by certain honorable senators opposite. 

 Senator Amour, in moving for the disallowance of these regulations, fell in badly when he advanced reasons in support of his contention. Some of his statements were really ridiculous, coming from a man of his training. For instance, he told a pathetic story about the hardships of women and children employed in factories, who might be prevented from transferring to other employment, even at the request of the members of their families. If the honorable member will look at the regulations, he will see that, according to the schedule, those affected are persons employed as electrical fitters, electrical mechanics, forgers and faggoters, instrument-makers, machinists, tool-makers and tradesmen - fitters and turners. I have been in the manufacturing business for a long time, but I have never yet seen a woman or child engaged in any of those trades. The honorable senator has been mistaken in his interpretation of the regulations. These regulations were found to be necessary because there was a great shortage of skilled labour in factories engaged upon munitions supplies. We must provide munitions of war in tremendous quantities in order to safeguard the lives of those in the fighting services. In this war munitions are as important, or perhaps more important, than man-power. If the fighting men cannot get munitions, they have no chance in modern warfare. They would be murdered. Those who are working long hours in the factories producing munitions are doing their duty just as much as are the men in khaki. As I have said, there is a great shortage of skilled tradesmen. I shall not endeavour to assign the responsibility for this, though I could do so if necessary. The shortage exists, and we must overcome it. The disallowance of the regulations would play into the, hands of the profiteers. Private manufacturers engaged upon civil work would then be able to lure away skilled tradesmen from the munitions factories, and employ them for their own profit. 
 .Senator Amour's  strong suit is the denunciation of profiteers. In fact, it is probably the only suit he has. Now he is seeking to do something which would have the effect, of helping private manufacturers to make profits at the expense of those who are fighting for the safety of Australia. Perhaps he does not realize that that is the position in which he is placing himself, but I assure him it is so. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  agreed to- 
That the Orders of the Day be postponed until after the disposal of the motion moved by  Senator  Amour  for the disallowance of Statutory Rules 1940 No. 128, National Security (Employment) Regulations. 
Owing to the scarcity of skilled labour, men in munitions factories, and even apprentices, have had to work twelve hours a day. Those who have had any experience in such matters know that a man may work twelve hours a. day for a short while,  but if he continues to work such long hours over a period, his health will suffer and his output will diminish until, in the end, he will be actually producing less than the normal output for an eight-hour day. These regulations are necessary to protect the men. I know that certain of the workers, tempted by the extra money and ignoring the fact that long hours of work are bound to undermine their health, have asked the employers to allow them to work for twelve hours a day, and have threatened to leave their employment and go elsewhere unless this were conceded. Therefore, the regulations are necessary in order to protect the men against themselves. 
I know, but I am inclined to think that there has been some misunderstanding regarding the proposal for the dilution of labour. The Amalgamated Engineering Union deserves great credit for realizing the situation, and agreeing to what hasbeen called the dilution of labour - that is, permitting the introduction of unskilled men who would gradually work up to the position of skilled tradesmen. They made the condition that any man thus doing a tradesman's work should receive a tradesman's pay. A further condition was that such men should be the first to be put off if, after the war, there was a scarcity of employment. That was a reasonable proposal from the point of view of the union, and is, I think, fair to both sides. If extra men have to be employed at this time, it is not right that they should displace the old, skilled tradesmen should jobs become scarce later. It is to the credit of the Amalgamated Engineering Union that in the present crisis it agreed to disregard its ordinary rules and make this agreement in order to allow of the dilution of labour. I think, however, that some misunderstanding exists as to the connexion between the agreement and the regulations itself. The agreement was made between the Government and the union apart altogether from the regulations. 
I trust that the agreement will be kept by both employers and employees in the spirit in which it was made, namely, for the benefit of the people of Australia. At the same time, 
I should not like to see any misunderstanding arise as to the connexion between the agreement and the regulations.  Senator Amour's  attack upon our industrial leaders was rather pathetic. This constant barking on the part of honorable senators opposite at the heels of people bigger than themselves is rather amusing, particularly when we realize the ability and the work of the men they attempt to criticize. Every one knows that in all of the works with which  Mr. Essington  Lewis is associated every amenity for the comfort of employees, in the form of modern bathrooms, rest-houses and nursing sections, has been provided on a scale unrivalled in other works in Australia or elsewhere. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, of which  Mr. Essington  Lewis is the head, has achieved a reputation for the manner in which it looks after the interests of its employees. 
The contention that employees receive such concessions only because employers are forced to provide them is the silliest I have ever heard. The fact remains that employees of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited are given conditions which excel those provided by any other industrial organization. Within 25 years it has become the key industry of Australia and, to-day, in the face of the enemy, we rely almost solely upon it to enable us to proceed with the manufacture of munitions and war material on an adequate scale. 
Certainly, when we were friendly with Germany, we endeavoured to maintain friendship with that country by trading with it. As a matter of fact we were anxious to help  it  through its economic difficulties. In any case, we were justified in trading with Germany in a time of peace. Now, however, when an armed Germany is facing the world, it is ridiculous for the honorable senator to charge any organization with having traded with it in years of peace. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to the action of the Labour party in Great Britain in participating in the government of Great Britain, and he quoted  Mr. Bevin  in order to show what was being done for labour in England. All honour to the Labour party in Britain for what it has done in co-operating in Britain's war effort ; but I cannot reconcile the attitude of the British Labour party with the stand taken up by the Labour party in this Parliament. Honorable senators opposite say that they are willing to participate in the formation of a national government provided that they enjoy the balance of power in such a government. Surely, in view of their numerical minority in the Parliament itself, such a request is unreasonable. We on this side charge the Labour party with refusing to shoulder its fair share of responsibility. We give to members of that party full credit for their honesty and sincerity in refusing to hamper the activities of the Government. But the people expect something more from them. They should accept direct responsibility in a national government on behalf of the great body of workers whom /they directly represent. 
All I can say in reply to the honorable senator is that should the Labour party be returned to power at the next election this Government will not hold the record for muddling. 
We do so with the object, not of securing better brains in the Ministry, but in order that the great body of workers of Australia may be given directly a part in the defence of Australia. 
Yes, but not to the degree which they would be enabled to do if they were directly represented in the Government. The Leader of the Opposition applauded the attitude adopted by the Labour party in Great Britain, but when an offer is made to his own party to co-operate on a similar basis in the government of this country it refuses to do so. 
The Prime Minister said that he would establish a Ministry of Labour, and would put a Labour man in charge of it. That is the Prime Minister's offer. Why not accept it, and go to the people in order to see if they will not a.gree to it? 
I hope that honorable senators will reject the motion for the disallowance of these regulations. The provision protects the interests of the men concerned, and prevents bargaining as between one factory and another. At the same time it consolidates the workers' position in munitions factories. In addition it will prevent our munitions factories from being depleted of vital workmen who would, otherwise probably be enticed elsewhere by the offer of higher wages. I strongly support the regulations also because they will do away with 12-hour shifts which are abominable. If such long shifts be worked the efficiency and health of the men will be detrimentally affected. For these reasons these regulations will operate in the best interests of the workers themselves, the employers and the men who are fighting to keep Australia safe. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeat)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
I have received from  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral the following communication in connexion with the Address-in-Reply: - 
The Gold Mining Encouragement Act 1940 was assented to on the 4th June, 1940, and regulations designed to give effect to the provisions  of  that act were made on the 17th July, 1940. The purpose of this amending bill is to remove certain drafting defects in the original act and to make other adjustments of a minor character which it is considered advisable to make in the light of advice offered by mining experts whose assistance the Commonwealth invited and obtained during the drafting  of  the regulations. 
The proposed amendments are four in number - 
Section 7 (1) relating to refunds to prospectors, is being amended to remove an ambiguity in the existing wording of that section as regards " fine gold ". 
Section 10 (1)  a  is to be amended to alter the basis of determining the cost of mining and treating ore. 
Section 10 (1) c requires amendment to correct an error in drafting in fixing the maximum allowance of £2 per oz. of fine gold for development. 
New section 10a to give a discretion to the Commissioner of Taxation to adopt a variation in the quarterly period, as defined in the act, for the making of applications for refunds. 
Section 7 (1) of the principal act, which relates to refunds of gold tax to bona fide prospectors, provides that - 
1 ) The Commonwealth shall, subject to the regulations, refund to a person who is a bona fide prospector the amount of tax upon the first 25 oz. of gold upon which he directly or indirectly pays tax. in any year. 
It is proposed to insert the word "fine" before the word " gold " in this subsection, in order to remove an ambiguity inherent in the existing wording. The intention of the section is that a refund shall be made of the amount of tax on 25 oz. of " fine " gold and not on 25 oz. of gold as expressed in the sub-section. The amendment proposed will remove any ambiguity. 
The present provision in section 10 (1)  a  relates the cost of production to average cost of gold production in the quarter during which the gold is produced. The difficulty with this is that the ore, from which that gold is produced, is not itself necessarily mined in the same quarter. It sometimes happens that no actual ore is mined during a quarter, even though the ore, previously mined, is treated during the quarter. The Commissioner of Taxation is convinced, as the result of advice tendered by gold-mining experts and Mines Department officials in the various States, that the present provision is inequitable and should be altered so that the cost of production will have reference to the cost of the actual ore treated. 
A drafting correction is necessary in section 10 (a)c in order to ensure that the maximum amount to be taken into account as the average cost of development shall in no case exceed the sum of £2 per oz. of fine gold. This was the definite intention set out in the secondreading speech on the original bill, but the existing provisions fail to give proper effect to that intention. 
Mining experts consider that a fixed quarter is not a convenient period for all producers in the industry. Books, statistics and records are, in some cases, kept either on a weekly or four-weekly basis. The proposal is : that the act be amended to provide for variation in the period of a " quarter ". A new section 10a is being inserted in order to give discretion to the Commissioner of Taxation in determining the exact period on an application from a producer. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cunningham  ) adjourned. 
I bring under the notice of the Government a matter which is deserving of serious consideration. I should like the responsible Minister at some future time to be able to give an assurance that the matter of which I intend to complain is not the result of instructions given by the Commonwealth. Government. As the Senate, no doubt, is aware, the question of conscription is agitating the minds of many of our people, and during the course of discussions, both in the Senate and the House of Representatives, assurances have been given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and other responsible Ministers that there will be no conscription for overseas service. As a matter of fact, legislative provision has been made to prevent conscription for overseas. Notwithstanding assurances on that score, and also the declaration of the Prime Minister that freedom of speech and assembly will continue in Australia, I am advised that, at least in Melbourne, those who desire to address the people on the subject of conscription are having all sorts of difficulties placed in their way. The police have interrogated them and asked for their names and addresses. 
That is not the question. We. still have freedom in Australia. We still believe in democracy. In view of the assurances given by the Prime Minister and other responsible spokesmen of the Government that these subjects are open for public discussion, it seems that some subterfuge has been resorted to by officials of the Commonwealth in order to authorize harassing tactics. I hope that the Leader of _ the Government in the Senate is in a position to assure us that these activities are not  carried  out at the express direction of the Commonwealth Government. But it is significant that the Government saw fit to-day to curtail discussion in this chamber of national security regulations. The importance of the subject warranted a lengthy debate. How can we accept the assurances of the Government that industrial conscription will not be introduced when the tactics of which I have complained are being carried out by underhand methods? A great deal of- the uneasiness which prevails in the Labour movement at the present time will be allayed if the honorable gentleman will give the assurance that I seek. 
The Government has endeavoured to cloak the undesirable features of certain national security measures by promulgating regulations containing provisions which trade unions supported, but which also include obnoxious provisions to which the unions object. 
Not one union in Australia would agree to industrial or military conscription. Efforts are being made, either by the Government or its responsible officials, to prevent people from speaking against conscription. 
It remains for the Minister to prove to me that the police force in Victoria has not received instructions from the Government to interfere  with  speakers publicly directing attention to the danger of the introduction of conscription in Australia. 
I am not endeavouring to misrepresent the facts; I am merely seeking information. I am prepared to accept an assurance, if the Leader of the Senate is able to give it, that the action taken by the police in the cases I have mentioned was not initiated by the Commonwealth. Citizens have visited me and written to me to complain about these cases, giving details of dates and times of the occurrences. Therefore I am justified in bringing the matter to the notice of the Senate and asking the responsible Minister for information on the subjectHonorable senators on this side of the chamber agreed to give to the Government powers that we would never have dreamt of giving in time of peace. We did. so because we were anxious for a 100 per cent, war effort in Australia. Now it seems that certain abuses have occurred in spite of the solemn assurances given to us. 
The interjection of the honorable gentleman is unworthy of a Minister who has been entrusted with the responsibility of leading the Government in the Senate. A man who is so impulsive as to make a remark of that kind shows himself to be unworthy of the great trust which his colleagues in the Government have reposed in him. It should demonstrate to the people outside of Parliament the unworthiness of the honorable gentleman to be a member of this chamber. The action that the Government has taken is a betrayal of the promises given in this chamber when the special national security legislation was passed. 
It is correct. At that time, a definite promise was made that neither industrial conscription nor military conscription would be introduced. Nevertheless, it seems that these things may be brought in by some subterfuge. 
If the officers of the law in Victoria acted against anticonscriptionist speakers at the instruction of the Commonwealth Government, it proves conclusively that the Government is preparing the stage for the introduction of conscription for overseas service. I ask the Minister to supply the information I have requested. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in tho Senate to investigate the histories of some newspapers that have been suppressed by the censorship authorities. These authorities have permitted the publication of certain newspapers printed in French, Greek and Yiddish to continue, whereas a newspaper, the  Napredar,  printed in the Jugoslavian language, was suppressed without prior warning from the Government. I have been assured that the publishers of this journal have at no time done anything to conflict with the wishes of the censorship authorities. Without any previous notification, instructions were suddenly issued that the publication of this newspaper should cease. If it be right to allow newspapers to be published in French, Greek and Yiddish, sound reasons should be advanced for the action that has been taken. Many of the readers of the Jugoslav journal can speak English, but cannot read the English language. I am assured by those responsible for the publication of this newspaper that they have carried out to the letter every request made by the censor. In Western Australia, these nationals have unmistakably displayed1 their loyalty to Australia, and many of them are naturalized British subjects. 
I protest emphatically against the importation of New Zealand potatoes into the Sydney market. There was no justification for the action taken by the 
Government in this regard. . In reply to a question asked by me to-day, the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  said that, " according to his experts there was a shortage of potatoes in Australia. If everything is to be done according to the experts, then I say, " God help Australia ". My remark applies with particular significance to our defence preparations. The Minister stated, in reply to my question, that there was no accumulation of surplus potatoes in the ports of Tasmania. I say definitely that potatoes have been accumulating during the last three or four weeks on the wharfs all along the coast of Tasmania. Up to 15,000 sacks have so accumulated. Only about a fortnight ago, when 40,000 sacks were on the wharfs, Tasmania was allowed to ship to Sydney only 20,000 sacks. 
If the Minister wants to maintain the price, why does he admit New Zealand potatoes, seeing that Tasmania could meet the requirements of the Sydney market? The Government has brought in the New Zealand potatoes for one purpose only. 
People in a position to know estimate that 300,000 sacks of potatoes are still to come from Tasmania. 
The Minister, who is so fond of interjecting, applied the " gag " last night, and he has not hesitated to jeer across the chamber at members of the Opposition. I have listened to him by the hour while he has read printed speeches that have been prepared for him by departmental officers. The least he can do now is to maintain silence while members of the Opposition place before the Government matters in which they are interested. 
According to the information that I have at the present time, I consider that a shortage is unlikely ; 'but, even if there were a shortage, why should we victimize the Australian growers? Why should not Australian potatoes be permitted to go upon the market while they can be supplied? We have no reason to believe that the Tasmanian growers will fail to meet the needs of the market for at least another two months. If any growers are to be called upon to store their potatoes, why should not the New Zealand growers do that until the Tasmanian crop is marketed ? 
Yes, but, even so, Tasmania has more than sufficient potatoes to supply the market in the next two months. In reply to my question to-day, the Minister said that potatoes did not deteriorate while stacked on the wharf awaiting shipment. That answer shows his lack of knowledge and his unfitness for his office. The Government's action in this matter is another injustice to Tasmania, which has suffered many injuries at the hands of this Government. If we take into account the returns from potatogrowing over a number of years, it will be found that the growers do not make huge profits. There is only about one good season in four seasons. 
I speak for my own State; the position may be different in Victoria. The least the Government should do for the Tasmanian growers of potatoes is to enable them to market their produce before potatoes from New Zealand are allowed to flood the market and force prices down. The Government has seen fit to fix a maximum price for potatoes in Sydney. I desire to know whether it is prepared to fix a minimum price for the whole year, and if so, whether it will be sufficient to cover the cost of production. Had it not been that the seat of a supporter of the Government was in jeopardy, the embargo on the importation of potatoes from New Zealand would never have been lifted. 
I wish now to make a brief reference to a question which I asked to-day concerning flax. In his answer, the Minister said that negotiations with Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited had been deferred. 
I understand that it is a subsidiary of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. A representative of the company has told the growers of the urgent need to grow flax, but no one has told them what they are likely to be paid for the flax when it is grown. The Minister has told us that no contract between the company and the Commonwealth Government is in existence. If it be intended that the Commonwealth Government shall take over  the  whole of the flax crop, I desire to know what is to be done with the flax, and whether the company referred to is to process the fibre. If that is the intention, surely it is time that the  Government  announced the terms of the arrangement. The Minister also said that the flax would be paid for according to its quality. It is time that the Government announced the price that will be paid. There are rumours that about £5 a ton will be paid. 
For the flax, not the processed fibre. 
Flax straw is the flax after it has been cut, and when it is ready to be carted to the mill for processing. In view of the fact that in England processed fibre is worth £160 a ton, that the Australian Government was offered £180 a ton for it, and also that the British Government is paying to the growers from £10 a ton for the raw flax before it is processed, surely the Commonwealth Government is in a position to say something more definite than that the flax will be paid for according to its quality. Since the farmers undertook to grow so many acres of flax, the cost of fertilizers has risen considerably, and the growers may find that they have produced the flax at a loss. I do not wish to say anything which might restrict the acreage to be sown with flax. 
No. I submit that the time is overdue for a definite statement on this subject, and I hope that when it is made, the Minister will place before us more reliable information than he has given to date. 
.- If  Senator Aylett,  who has just resumed his seat, does not know more about potatoes than he knows about flax, I am afraid that his knowledge is limited. Through the Government of Northern Ireland the British Government has purchased, at £4 per ton, flax straw produced from 60,000 acres. Evidently  Senator Aylett  does not know what straw is. It is flax from which the seed has been removed. For this the grower is paid about £28 a ton. The price of seed varies considerably according to the quality and kind of flax. The 400 tons of seed which arrived in Australia from Britain is of special quality. This flax of a special quality produces a small quantity of seed and a high percentage of fibre. Therefore it is necessary to pay a higher price for the straw for fibre. The growers in Ireland will receive a return of approximately £20 an acre on this basis.  I  do not know what the growers in Australia are likely to receivebecause no arrangements have been made with Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited, a company which the honorable senator says is a subsidiary company of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. I have never heard such an absurd statement. Those associated with the company are well-known persons; I know who they are, but I do not intend to enlighten the honorable senator. The Government, I understand, proposes to purchase, at a fair price, the British Government's requirements of straw which is made into fibre, and also to pay a reasonable price for the seed. That is all that can be done until the position becomes clarified and the necessary arrangements are made by the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron).  I am confident that Australian producers of flax will get a reasonably good return for the production of this commodity. The production of flax is not a new industry in Australia. 
An agreement has not yet been reached, but the growers can rest assured that the Government will give them all that there is in it. The Government is not interested in the industry for what it can get out of it, but is anxious to assist the producers. Flax has been grown in Australia for over 30 years. Crops are produced in my district, and the product sent to the factories, where it is treated. I understand that a new process is being evolved which seems to embody an excellent idea. This new process is at present being investigated by interested officials. Inbuying flax for the British Government the straw will be cut and threshed and the seed removed, and instead of retting it, it will be crushed and the residue, which is stock fodder and contains 3 per cent. linseed oil, removed. The crushed fibre in an untreated form will be shipped to Great Britain, where there are the necessary retting pits and machines. In a year or two we may be able to treat the crops grown in Australia. 
I have never heard such a proposition mentioned. The Government is merely telling the fibregrowers, that for the present, it proposes to despatch the fibre to Britain for final treatment. 
The seed was only landed on Monday last, and I have not the slightest doubt that those who are interested know what is proposed. The honorable senator knows nothing of the subject which he has raised. I believe that many persons will be able to produce flax successfully in this country, and that the flax industry will become well established particularly in late districts such as Ballarat and in parts of Tasmania and of Queensland. Eventually, flaxgrowing should become an important industry. We do not want only to grow flax but to handle it and to process it. Something in this direction will have to be done because we cannot continue to produce wheat and other primary products for which there is no overseas market. Flax-growing is an industry whichcould be carried on in conjunction with mixed farming and should prove profitable. The growing of flax has been carried on profitably by many farmers in my district. A neighbour of mine has 200 acres under  flaxand others have50 acres or more. Iam certain that the Government will takethe necessary steps to see that the farmers producing flax will receive very fair treatment and that they will not be deprived of a single shilling. 
. -On Tuesday last I asked an intelligent question, and although I am under the impression that I speak the King's English the Minister to whom the question was directed was apparently unable to understand the English language. I endeavoured to obtain some information about "Cooper's snoopers". I asked whether the Minister for Information  (Sir Henry Gullet t)  had engaged menand women to obtain information on certain subjects as has been done by  Mr. Duff  Cooper in England. Several days ago a woman came to Queensland and engaged people to go around and ask questions of certain individuals. Money was paid for doing the work. I know one person who was so engaged and I am anxious to ascertain whether such persons arc associated with any governmentactivity or with a private organization. I understand that the name of this body is the " Markets Research Specialists of Australian Census of Public Opinion " but I have been unable to find any one who has engaged these people. Are these Australian " Cooper's snoopers" some of "Murdoch's mystery men " or have they been engaged by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? One question asked was " What do you think of the Federal Government's war effort?" The answer given was "What war effort? ". I cite some questions and facetious answers which appeared in the  Truth  newspaper published in most of Australia's States - 
If Australia's war effort is good, what Ministers do you think are responsible? - We would blame themall. 
What do you think of  Mr. Menzies  as Prime Minister? - He is a nice bloke. 
Who would you like to be Prime Minister? - Darby Munro; a vote would be wortha winner. 
Do you listen to the 7 p.m. radio sessions of the Department of Information? - If there were one station on the air which did not have to broadcast it, it's popularity with listeners at 7 p.m. would be amazing. 
I now ask the Minister in all seriousness whether he will inform me next week who is responsible for the appointment of these persons, and whether they are in any way associated with any governmental activity. The Criminal Investigation Branch in Brisbane tried unsuccessfully to discover by whom they were appointed and I now suggest that inquiries should be made by the Commonwealth Investigation Branch, I should like to be assured that Government money is not being wasted in obtaining answers to suck foolish questions. 
Motion (by  Senator Dein)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by l  eave  - To-daywe meet in anatmosphere filled with sorrow. Our hearts are heavy with the thought of yesterday's tragedy. Ten valuable liveswere lost when a Royal 
Australian AirForce monoplane, carrying three Federal Cabinet Ministers and other personnel, crashed near the Canberra aerodrome. 
This disaster has taken from us three prominent members of the Commonwealth Ministry - the honorable G. A. Street, M.C., Minister for the Army; the Honorable  Sir Henry  Gullett, K.C.M.G., Vice-President of the Executive Council; and the honorable  J. V. Fairbairn,  Minister for Air and Civil Aviation. 
Accompanying our colleagues in the plane at thetime of the disaster were General SirBrudenellWhite, Chief of the GeneralStaff; Lieutenant-Colonel F. Thornthwaite, Stall Officer attached to the Chief of the General Staff;  Mr. E.  E. Elford, private secretary to  Mr. Fairbairn;  and the crew of the plane, comprising Flight-LieutenantR. E. Hitchcock, officer in charge of the machine; Pilot-OfficerR. F. Wiesener, assistant pilot; Corporal J. F. Palmer, wireless operator; and Aircraftsman C.  J.  Crosdale, fitter. 
When the first news of the accident reached Canberra, ministerial colleagues, parliamentary associates, and friends of thedecreased were stunned at its appalling nature. Our first thoughts were for the bereaved families, with whom many of us were personally acquainted, and who. wo know, would be prostrate with grief at their sudden and irreparable loss. 

 Mr. Street had been a member of the Federal Parliament since the general elections of 1934. He was appointed Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Defence on the 15th  July,  1938, and attained ministerial officeasMinister for Defence in the LyoasMinistry on the 7th November of the sameyear. He con- tinued in that, portfolio until the 13th November, 1939, when he was appointed Minister for the Army. On the reconstruction of the present Ministry on the 14th March, 1940, he was appointed also Minister forRepatriation.  Mr. Street's  public service, apart from that rendered in Parliament, included membership for several years, of the Hampden Shire Council, Victoria, distinguished military service abroad during the Great Warof  1914-1918.  and since with the Mili tin Forces in Australia. He was  prominently connected with the pastoral industry, and was a well known figure in werai branches of sport. 

 Sir Henry Gullett had been a member of the House of Representatives since 1935. Ho was Minister for Trade and Customs in the Bruce-Page Ministry from the 24th November, 102S, to the 22nd October, 1929, and in the Lyons Ministry from the 6th January,  1932, to the 14th January, 1933. He was a member of the Australian delegation to the Imperial Economic Conference in 1932. In 1933 he was honoured by  His  Majesty the King with the Order of Knight. Commander of Saint Michael and Saint George. From the 12lh October, 1934, to the 11th March, 3937, he was again a member of the Lyons Ministry, being a Minister without portfolio directing negotiations for trade treaties. During this period he was a member of the ministerial delegation which visited England and conducted trade negotiations in the various European capitals. When the Menzies Ministry was formed in April, 1939,  Sir Henry  was appointed Minister for External Affairs. In September, 1939, lie was appointed also Minister for Information. On the reconstruction of the Ministry on the 14th March last he was appointed Vice-President of the Executive Council, which appointment he hold at the time of his death. He served with the Australian Imperial Force during the Great. War, and will be remembered for his work as editor of part of the official history of Australia in that war. 

 Mr. Fairbairn entered the House of Representatives as member for Flinders, in succession to  Mr. Bruce,  in November, 1933, after over, twelve months' service in the Legislative Assembly of Victoria as member for Warrnambool. He was re-elected at the general elections of 1034 and 1937. When the Ministry was formed in April, 1939,  Mr. Fairbairn  was appointed Vice-President of the Executive Council and Minister for Civil Aviation. In November, 1939, he was appointed also Minister for Air. On the reconstruction of the Ministry in March, 1940, he was appointed Minister for Air and Minister for Civil Aviation.  Mr. Fairbairn  served with distinction in the Royal Flying Corps during the war of 1914-1918, and had always been prominently connected with aviation activities in Australia. lt is with great sincerity that I record my appreciation of the very valuable service which each Minister rendered te Australia in his particular sphere of activity. I feel a deep sense of personal loss at the passing of these three colleagues. 
It. is appropriate that special  reference  should he made to the death of  General  Sir Brudenell  White, K.C.B., KC.M.G.. K.C.V.O., D.S.O., Chief of the General Staff of the Australian Military Forces, who was proceeding to Canberra on official duty.  Sir Brudenell  White had a distinguished record in the Great War of 1914-1918, and in governmental and civil life had filled many important positions with great credit to himself and to his country. He was recalled from retirement recently to take over the duties of Chief of tho General Staff, and the Government regarded itself as fortunate  in having the advantage of his very valuable experience. The loss of his services will indeed bo a severe one. 
Lieutenant-Colonel Thomthwaite wa* Army Liaison Officer on the General Staff, and had a fine military record. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and the Military CrossRecalled from his peace-time activities ns a pastoralist soon after the outbreak of the present war, he quickly established himself as one of the most efficient and popular senior staff officers. 

 Mr. R. E. Elford was private secretary to  Mr. Fairbairn  and, as my leader, tho Right Honorable the Prime Minister, said yesterday, was at the beginning of  u  career full of promise. His work had shown him to possess outstanding ability, and his knowledge of aeronautics was of great value to his late chief. 
Flight-Lieutenant Hitchcock joined the Royal Australian Air Force over five years ago, and had proved himself u most competent airman. The other members of the craw of tho ill-fated plane, Pilot-Officer  Wiesener  Corporal Palmer, and Aircraftsman  Crosdale  won: all men of the calibre which ultima tei y will win the war. The loss of such skilled personnel is indeed a serious om-, and is deplored by all. 
Those who met their deaths in the disaster were engaged on important public service. This fact, we trust, may be some consolation to their sorrowing relatives in their hour of trial. It is particularly sad to recall that the journey was practically completed when the  crash  occurred. I invite honorable senators to join in an expression of deepest sympathy with the relatives of those who lost their lives. I move - 
That the Senate places on record its great sorrow at the loss of lives in the tragic air disaster at Canberra on Tuesday, the 13th August, 1940, and extends to the relatives of all those who perished its heartfelt sympathy. 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the tragic deaths of Brigadier the Honorable Geoffrey Austin Street, M.C., Minister of State for the Army and Minister of State for Repatriation and Member -for Corangamite in the House of Representatives; the Honorable  Sir Henry  Somer Gullett, K.C.M.G., VicePresident of the Federal Executive Council and Member for Henty in the House of Representatives; and of the Honorable James Valentine Fairbairn, Minister of State for Air and Minister of State for Civil Aviation and Member for Flinders in the House of Representatives; places on record its appreciation of their long and distinguished public service, and tenders its heartfelt sympathy to their widows and families in their bereavement. 
We meet this afternoon in a shadow of a great tragedy, assembled as we are for the express purpose of honouring the memory of those who, but a few hours ago, were with us, but now .are no more. We are more than a gathering of senators; we are a community of friends united in a common grief. We submerge our differences, and in deepest sympathy, with profound respect and great reverence, we bow our heads and say, " We are sorry ". On occasions such as this one realizes the utter inadequacy of words. I desire, however, to say that just as it gives one pleasure to share in the joy of others, so we hope that our sharing in their great grief may bring some meed of comfort to those who to-day mourn the death of their loved ones. Their suffering is very great indeed, and to them our  hearts  go out in fellowship. The loss to each of ns here assembled is also great, for we have been bereft of those whom  we  respected because of the signal service which they had given to the nation, in the course of which service, they made the supreme sacrifice. Australia will mourn them too. Each of those ten men so tragically removed from our midst had been called to a position of great responsibility in this tragic national crisis of war. To this duty, as he saw it. each man gave of his best. For every member of the party which I lead in this chamber I say, with a full heart, "We are sorry ". 
It is with very great regret that I rise to associate members of the Country party in this chamber with the motions submitted by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay).  This is truly a sad day for this Parliament and for the people cf Australia. The district to which I belong is clouded with gloom and sorrow, for in this tragic national disaster it has lost three of its leading citizens,  Mr. Street, Mr. Fairbairn  and LieutenantColonel Thomthwaite, all of whom were neighbours and close friends. They all played a prominent part in the public life of the Western District of Victoria and will be greatly missed in the district. The late  Sir Henry  Gullett, who was a colleague of mine in the Bruce-Page Government, was a seasoned parliamentarian, but suffered a good deal from ill health.  His  inclusion in so many ministerial offices was evidence of his ability. We deeply regret his passing. The late  Mr. Street  was elected to represent the Division of Corangamite, from which I retired in 1934, and his ability and close attention to duty soon won him high ministerial office.  His  was a big job, and in this difficult time he was rendering a great national service. For many years he was a municipal councillor in the district in which I live, and two days before his death was returned unopposed to that position. For several years he was a Justice of the Peace, and in the Lismore district was an honoured, respected and worthy citizen. The late  Mr. Fairbairn,  who lived near the late'  Mr. Street,  was also a member of the same council for some years, and in that capacity he rendered remarkable service. In 1932 lie was elected to represent Warrnambool - a difficult seat to win - in the Victorian Parliament. In the following year he contested successfully the Flinders seat in the Federal Parliament.  His  ability and industry were soon recognized, with the result that he, too, was entrusted with one of the most important portfolios in the Ministry. He was a popular and generous citizen in the district in which he lived. We deeply deplore the loss of these men who died in the prime of life, and with a full knowledge of the task ahead of them. The late General  Sir Brudenell  White waa one of Australia's most distinguished soldiers. He was, indeed, one of Australia's greatest sons, an experienced businessman, and a gentleman in every sense of the word.  His  position will be extremely hard to fill. We also deeply regret the death of those who accompanied these gentlemen in the ill-fated journey from Melbourne to Canberra. The nation has lost good men who were rendering valuable national service. The nation mourns with the widows and families of the bereaved, and we offer them our sincere sympathy. We know not what a day may bring forth. 
I associate myself with the motion submitted by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay).  The Commonwealth Parliament is to-day writing one of the saddest pages in its history. In the most tragic air disaster that this nation has suffered, three Ministers of State, the Chief of the General Staff., who is hoad of the Army, and six other Australians have been tragically taken from us at one blow. On behalf of the party which 1 represent in this chamber I extend sincere sympathy to those who have been left to mourn the loss of those who were near and dear to them. They may take solace iu the knowledge that those whose death we lament carried out their respective duties faithfully, and died in the- service of the country which we all love so dearly, and desire so earnestly to protect. 
All of us are aware of the great demands that these perilous days make upon members of Governments. The day is not long enough to enable them to see Jill whom they wish to see, and to read and deal with all the problems so vital to the welfare of our country in this great crisis. In order to utilize to the full the time available for the discharge of their ministerial duties, and, no doubt, to give just a little of their society to their wives mid families, these men, as they often had to do, chose air travel as a means of speedy transport. They therefore, gave their lives in the service of the Government, a service demanding every ounce of their energy, in order to guard us from the terrors and destructive forces which are over-powering Europe to-day. 
Not every man possesses in equal measure the gifts of friendliness and personal regard for others. Nature endows men in different ways. The final determination of these factors is judged according to our own personal reactions. I mention this because it is remarkable that one should find all of these qualities in the three Ministers linked so tragically and so suddenly in 'death. On every occasion when I had to consult them I found them courteous and obliging and ready always to listen to my representations. They worked hard and long, and they faced the harassing problems of this strange new world, with the courage of their convictions and in accordance with the dictates of their judgment. 
To all who a re left to mourn their loss, their sorrowing widows and children, my party extends its profound sympathy. May the memory of their many acts of kindness, and the high esteem in which they were held, be a source of consolation to their relatives in their darkest hour. I join with their families in the thought that these men have passed ©n to a brighter and better sphere, where the sufferings, turmoil and anxieties of this much disturbed and troubled world are unknown. 
As a Victorian senator I should like to add my sincere tribute to the memory of the deceased Ministers and officers whose deaths we lament to-day. I knew each nf the three Ministers, intimately, particularly  Sir Henry  Gullett, when I was a member of the House of Representatives. I was associated with all of them, nor. only as a member of this Parliament, but also as a political opponent in several election campaigns. They were the elect of the people. Two of them were in charge of the fighting services of this nation, having been given the task of placing Australia on a war footing in an unprecedently short time. All of us agree that the three Ministers were at all times courteous and conscientious in the execution of their duty. Their loss is aserious blow to Australia. I pay my tribute also to the late  Sir Brudenell  White and the late Lieutenant-Colonel Thornthwaite who rendered outstanding military service to this nation. In the presence of death all political hostility is forgotten. The grief-stricken relatives of all whose end was so tragic and sudden, have the sympathy of everyman and woman in the Australian Labour movement. My fervent prayer is that the Almighty will comfort them in their great grief. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
As a mark of respect to the memory of the late Ministers, I move - 
ThattheSenatedonowadjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senateadjournedat3.25  p.m. 
I ask the Minister  representing the Postmaster-General whether he has seen the booklet, issued by his department, entitled the  Commonwealth Telegraph Network?  If so, can he explain why the State of Tasmania was omitted from the map? 
I have seen the booklet referred to. I can offer no explanation of the omission. 
In view of the decision of the Minister for Commerce not to receive a deputation of members representing Western Australia in order to discuss the proposal for establishing wool appraisement centres at Albany and Geraldton, I ask the Minister representing the Minister  for Commerce whether he will make a statement on the subject before the adjournment of Parliament, and indicate whether or not the Government approves of the proposal? 
The matter mentioned by the honorable senator is under consideration. I understand that a statement relating to it will be made by the Minister for Commerce before the adjournment of Parliament. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate: (1) Can he inform the Senate whether the Prime Minister invited  Mr. Stevens,  the ex-Premier of New South Wales, to confer with him with regard to the appointment of business men to the Cabinet; (2) if such action is contemplated, does the Prime Minister propose to give equitable representation to New South Wales? 
That is a matter for the Prime Minister to determine, but I can say on his behalf that he did not invite  Mr. Stevens. 
NEW BUSINESS AFTER 10.30 p.m. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  agreed to - 
That Standing Order No. 68 be suspended up to and including the 29th August next, to enable new business to be commenced after half-past ten o'clock at night. 
I ask the Assistant Minister for Commerce whether an agreement has been reached for the marketing of next season's apple and pear crop, and if so, will the Minister make a statement on the subject before the adjournment of Parliament? 
That subject was discussed at the recent meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in Sydney. Certain proposals were put forward by the Commonwealth, and, subject to further discussion on minor points, were agreed to by the representatives of the States. There will be another meeting of the council to consider those details, and it is hoped that a statement on the subject will be made at an early date. 
I lay on the table the report of the Australian delegates to the 20th Assembly of the League of Nations which met at Geneva from the 11th to the 18th December, 1939. 
Ordered to be printed. 
Are negotiations in progress between the Commonwealth Government and the Governments of the States regarding the provision of free transport for soldiers when on week-end leave? If so, has any result been obtained ? 
Negotiations are in progress at the present time in respect of that matter. I shall endeavour to obtain information for the honorable senator as to what is being done regarding it in Tasmania. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the total amount of credit loaned by the Commonwealth Bank to the Australian Wheat Board? 
How much of that amount has been recovered by the sale of wheat? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 

<graphic href="164332194008205_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is mainly a machinery measure, and is mostly self-explanatory. Its sole purpose is to provide means whereby members of the Defence Forces, on service outside Australia, or who have returned from such service too late to secure enrolment in the usual way, may record their votes at Commonwealth elections and referendums held during the war period. 
Subject to sub-section 4 of section 39 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act - which disqualifies persons of unsound mind, or those attainted of treason or undergoing a term of imprisonment - clause 6 of the bill sets out that a member of the forces, who is not under the age of 21 years, and who is serving outside Australia, or has returned therefrom and is not enrolled as an elector, shall be entitled to vote for the division in which he was ordinarily resident immediately prior to his appointment or enlistment, or, in the case of a permanent member, immediately prior to the outbreak of war. This provision is analogous to that in the Canadian law under which at the recent dominion elections every active service elector was entitled to vote for the district in which he was ordinarily resident immediately preceding the date of his appointment, enlistment, or calling up. 
Part II. of the bill relates to voting by members of the forces overseas, and, in general, prescribes the manner in which the votes will be recorded and dealt with. Commonwealth returning officers will be appointed, where necessary, and each of these officers will be required, as far as the exigencies of war operations permit, to supply the requisite voting material to the commanding officers of the respective units serving in the area under his control. 
It is provided in the bill that, immediately after the close of nominations in a general election, the Chief Electoral Officer shall notify each Commonwealth returning officer of the names, addresses and occupations of the Senate candidates for the respective States, grouped as required, and of the House ofRepresentatives candidates for all divisions of the Commonwealth, so that the CommonwealthReturning Officer may forthwith cause to be printed a list of all of the candidates, with their addresses and occupations, and supply copies of the list to each unit for the information of voters. 
With regard to the ballot-papers, it is intended that each CommonwealthReturning Officer shall, as soon as possible after receipt of the Chief Electoral Officer's notification of the names, obtain a supply of Senate ballot-papers for each State, fully printed with the names of the candidates in the order and grouped as directed. The House ofRepresentatives ballot-paper, however, will be printed in blank, but the names of the candidates for the division will be written in by the officer designated to take the votes of members of the forces attached to the unit before he issues the ballot-paper to the voter. Unless time will permit of the requisite declaration envelopes being supplied from Australia, these also will be obtained by the CommonwealthReturning Officer at his local centre. 
Clause 10 of the bill provides that the commanding officer of each unit shall designate one or more commissioned officers before whom the members of the forces attached to the unit may record their votes, that he shall hand over to such officer or officers the voting material received from the CommonwealthReturning Officer, and that he shall notify in orders where, before whom, on what days, and during what hours, votes may be recorded. 
The manner in which the votes shall be recorded is set out in clause 11. In general the procedure prescribed is virtually the same as that under which an elector votes as an absent voter at a polling booth in Australia. The votes, when recorded, will be placed in the envelopes, bearing the declaration of the voters, and these will be delivered at the earliest practicable time to the commanding officer, who shall, as provided in clause 12, forthwith cause them to be transmitted to the Commonwealth Returning Officer. 
Clause 13 prescribes the action to be taken by the Commonwealth Returning Officer in respect of all envelopes received by him prior to the close of the poll, and clause 14 sets out that, as soon as practicable after the close of the poll, he shall take from the ballot-box, or other receptacle, all envelopes which have been accepted, sort them into separate parcels according to the divisions indicated in the voters declarations, and, in the prescribed manner, extract the ballot-papers and proceed with the scrutiny. The regulations will prescribe the manner in which the ballot-papers shall be extracted and the scrutiny carried out. The procedure will be closely akin to that employed in relation to postal and absent votes in Australia, so as to ensure strict adherence to the principle of the secrecy of the ballot. 
Upon the completion of the scrutiny of the votes dealt with by him, each Commonwealth returning officer will notify the Chief Electoral Officer of the result thereof, and these results will be communicated to the divisional returning officers, who will include the results in the returns relating to their respective divisions. 
It is proposed that each Commonwealth returning officer shall count the first preference votes in respect of the Senate and the House of Representatives elections, and notify the Chief Electoral Officer of the result, but that, while retaining the House of Representatives ballot-papers for any further scrutiny and transfer of votes that may be required, he shall forthwith assemble and transmit by the most expeditious means practicable the parcels of Senate ballot-papers to the Commonwealth electoral officers for the respective States. There are two good reasons for the transmission of the Senate ballot- papers to Australia : First, owing to the complex nature of the preferential count in Senate elections, it is considered extremely doubtful whether the work could be effectively carried out overseas; and, secondly, it is confidently expected that by bringing the ballot-papers to Australia the final result of the elections will be determined considerably earlier than otherwise. This is due to the fact that upwards of twenty or more counts are usually involved, and, if every count had to be held up, awaiting the result of the count overseas in response to each direction, probably involving a delay of two days or so in each instance, it is not unlikely that the period occupied would run into something like two months. 
Part III. of the bill provides the means whereby  unenrolled  returned members of the forces may vote. This provision is designed especially to meet the case of  unenrolled  members who return too late to secure enrolment in the ordinary way, that is, immediately prior to an election. Any returned men who were formerly enrolled for their home addresses, and whose enrolments have been retained, may, of course, vote in respect of such enrolments, but if they are not so enrolled, they will have the right under this bill to vote in respect of the division in which they were ordinarily resident prior to appointment or enlistment in the forces. Any such  unenrolled  returned man may apply for a certificate and ballot-paper in much the same way as a postal voter, and the recording and scrutiny of the votes will be effected along the same lines as those obtaining in the case of postal votes. 
Under the miscellaneous clauses in Part IV. of the bill, it is provided that compulsory voting will not apply to members of the forces entitled to vote in pursuance of this measure. This is deemed necessary because war operations may preclude some members of the forces from having the opportunity to record their vote, and, in any case, it would be impracticable to apply the ordinary enforcement provisions. In addition, a saving provision is designed to prevent any challenge as to the validity of an election in consequence of any unavoidable failure or loss connected with the taking of the votes of members of the forces under this bill. A similar provision was embodied in the Electoral WarTime Act of 1917 and it will, I am sure, be appreciated that the hazards on this occasion are by no means less. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- The object of this measure is to remedy certain defects in the principal act. I have examined it carefully, and have found nothing in it to which exception could be taken. Indeed, the amendments are very desirable. The Opposition, therefore, supports the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Accounting periods). 
Some difficulty has been experienced by prospectors in obtaining refunds from the Taxation Department in respect of the first 25 oz. of gold produced. I do not blame the department in this regard, but merely take this opportunity to suggest a method by which such delays might be overcome. With  Senator Cunningham  and two representatives of the prospectors, I have discussed this matter with officers of the Taxation Department. For instance, when a number of men are interested in the one claim, each has to prove his bona fides in respect of his share of the refund allowable on the one parcel of gold. It may happen, however, that the men may become widely separated, and, consequently, experience some difficulty in substantiating their respective claims to share in the refund. This difficulty might be overcome if the prospectors set out their respective shares, when insurance of the gold is being effected. This is usually done by telegram. Such information would guide the department in dealing with applications for refunds. At present the department is obliged to obtain this information from the prospector's agent, probably the local storekeeper, and this process involves considerable delay. I know of applications by prospectors, who are now members of the Australian Imperial Force, having been held up in this way. The department might look into my suggestion with a view to overcoming this disability of the prospectors. 
I am informed that a new form has been issued on which the individual shares in any particular parcel of gold are to be shown. However, I shall refer the honorable senator's suggestion to the Taxation Department for investigation. He will admit that it is the duty of the department to guard against malpractices on the part of prospectors in making claims for refund. I assure him that everything will be done to expedite the payment of refunds. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Recently the Government appointed a committee to survey the possibility of establishing a combined administration for the adjoining territories of Papua and New Guinea. Whilst this committee did not report favorably on the establishment of a combined administration, the majority of its members stressed the desirability of obtaining a greater degree of uniformity between the laws and administrative methods of the two territories. With the exception of Papua, the chief executive officer of each of the external territories of the Commonwealth, and also of the Northern Territory, is  styled the Administrator, and it is proposed in this bill to change the designation of the head of the Papuan administration from that of Lieutenant-Governor to that of Administrator and so bring the territory of Papua into line with the other territories. At the same time, the opportunity is being taken to effect certain other amendments which experience has shown to be desirable, to correct certain minor errors of drafting, and to bring the Papua Act, which is actually the constitution of the Territory of Papua, still more closely into line with the constitution of the Mandated Territory of New Guinea as expressed in the New Guinea Act. 
The Papuan Public Service formerly contained an office of Administrator, the occupant of which was responsible for the administration of the territory during the inability or absence from the territory of the Lieutenant-Governor. In 1924 it was decided that the then occupant should continue in office, but that, upon his ceasing to hold that office, the senior official member of the Executive Council present in the territory should carry out such functions under the title of Acting Lieutenant-Governor, and the present provision in the act expresses this intention. The former occupant of the office of Administrator is no longer an officer of the territory, and the office has been permitted to lapse, as intended, so that it is now considered desirable to replace the former provision with one on the lines of that obtaining in New Guinea for the appointment of an Acting Administrator. Therefore the GovernorGeneral may appoint a person to act as Administrator whenever necessary, and, in default of any such appointment, the senior official member of the Executive Council present in the territory shall exercise and perform all the powers and functions of the Administrator. The appointment of an Acting Administrator during the absence of the Administrator from the territory shall not affect the exercise or performance by the Administrator himself of any power or function. 
At present a person may be appointed as the deputy of the LieutenantGovernor in any part of the terrritory. It is considered that provision should also be made for the appointment of a Deputy 
Administrator in respect of the whole territory in order to facilitate administration when the Administrator is still in the territory, but is carrying out tours of inspection, and so is absent from the capital and centre of administration. 
Experience has shown that the procedure regarding suspensions from the Papuan Public Service could be improved. Under section  17  of the present act, the Lieutenant-Governor has the power to appoint, in the name of the Governor-General, and subject to subsequent confirmation, all necessary officers of the territory; and under section  18  he has the power to suspend officers for disciplinary reasons pending the GovernorGeneral's pleasure. In the matter of appointments, it as considered that the initial power of appointment should rest with the Governor-General, as in the case of other territorial services, and it is proposed to provide that the GovernorGeneral may appoint or may delegate to the Minister or the Administrator the power to appoint all necessary officers. The date of commencement of sections  7 and  8 of the amending bill are being fixed by proclamation in order to enable the consequential review of the Public Service Ordinance and Regulations of the territory to be effected, as further provisions relating to the procedure to be followed  in  regard to the appointment or suspension of officers are to be inserted  in  that legislation. 
The Papua Act at present provides that the Executive Council shall consist of  nine  members, one of whom must be a non-official member chosen by and from' the five non-official members of the Legislative Council. The remaining  eight  official members are officers of the territory. The population of Papua at present comprises about  1,600  Europeans  and 300,000  natives. It is considered that greater elasticity should be permitted in the number of official members- on the council,  and,  accordingly, instead of the statutory obligation to have  an  Executive Council of nine members, it is proposed that that number should be a maximum, the actual number . of: members fluctuating between five and nine as may  be  necessary to meet the conditions of the territory. This amendment involves n consequential amendment of sub-section 3 of section 22 of the principal act. At present there is no provision for the appointment of a person to act in place of any official or non-official member of the Executive Council,  -who,  by reason  of  illness or absence from the territory, is unable to be present at a- council meeting, and it is therefore proposed that provision be made for the appointment of deputies of both the official and nonofficial members of the Executive Council. 
In view of the improvement of transport facilities, and the .progress of the territory, it is thought that copies of the minutes of the meetings of both the Executive and Legislative Councils should be supplied to the Minister at more frequent intervals than quarterly. It is now proposed that copies of such minutes should be forwarded as soon as practicable after each meeting. 
The existing term of the non-official members of the Legislative Council of Papua is six years, but it has been decided that this should be reduced to four years. It has also been thought desirable to provide for the appointment of extraordinary members of the Legislative Council. Such members would be persons who would be able to tender expert advice on any particular matter with which the council might be required to deal, but would not be entitled to vote or to be counted in any quorum of the council. The other amendment to be made to section 29 of the principal act is consequential on the proposal to provide for the appointment of deputies of the official members of the Executive Council. The Legislative Council of Papua, purporting to act under the powers given to it by section 34 of the Papua Act 1905- 1934, has made a standing order covering the time and place of meetings. Doubt has, however, been expressed as to whether section 34 of the act confers upon the Legislative Council power to deal with such a matter, and in order to clarify the position it has been decided to insert such a provision in the act. 
It has also been decided to alter the designation of the chief court of the territory from that  of  the Central Court  to  that of the Supreme Court. The court is vested with similar jurisdiction in  the  territory to that of a Supreme Court in  a  State  of  the Commonwealth.  The late 

 Sir Hubert Murray occupied the office of Judge of the Central Court as well as that of Lieutenant-Governor. There is another judge in the territory. The salary paid to  Sir Hubert  Murray was at the rate of £1,800 per annum, but it is proposed that the salary  tO'  be. assigned to the office of Administrator of Papua, who will not be required to perform judicial duties, should be at the rate of £1,500 per annum. It is desirable that there should be freedom to vary the salaries of the administrator or a judge to meet conditions that may change from time to time, and it is therefore considered that approval for the fixation of such salaries should be within the power of the Governor-General in Council, so that an amendment of the act would not be necessary when changes of such salary were contemplated. Moreover, the salaries are to be appropriated from the revenue of the territories and not from the revenue of the Commonwealth. 
 This bill does not involve general principles that call for discussion at this stage. The Opposition has had an opportunity to examine the measure, and does not intend to oppose it. Those of us who have had an opportunity to follow closely affairs in Papua realize what a splendid public servant  Sir Hubert  Murray was as administrator of that territory. I should like to pay a tribute to him, because we have had few men indeed who have been able to combine administrative and judicial functions so successfully as  Sir Hubert  Murray did. 
After a first glance at the measure, I considered  that there was something wrong with the representation proposed; it is bad to have taxation without representation. But, on examining the matter further, I discovered that the people of Papua are in a very favorable situation because they are not called upon to pay any direct taxes at all. I regret that we in other parts of Australia are not in the same fortunate position. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Disallowance of ordinances assented to). 
I take it that apart from the alteration of the title, no change of principle is involved in this clause, and that procedure will he the same as before. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 15 (Appeal to High Court). 
I should like the Minister in charge of the bill to explain this clause. My interpretation of it is that the right of appeal to the High Court will be eliminated, and instead there will be a right of appeal to the Supreme Court only. 
An appeal may be made from the Supreme Court to the High Court? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Civil List). 
Will the Minister tell us what the effect of this clause will he? 
Section 49 of the original act provides for the appropriation of moneys from territory revenues for the payment of the salaries of the LieutenantGovernor and judges. It provides also that when the offices of LieutenantGovernor and judge are held by the same person, that person shall be entitled to receive only the salary of LieutenantGovernor. This provision was inserted in the act at the request of the late Lieutenant-Governor,  Sir Hubert  Murray, who carried out the duties of LieutenantGovernor and judge. In his dual capacity he was paid £1,800 per annum. It is proposed that the salary of the Administrator shall be £1,500 per annum. The salaries of the Administrators of other Commonwealth Territories are: - Northern Territory, £1,200, and £500 allowance; New Guinea, £1,800; Nauru, £1,250; and Norfolk Island, £800. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- With other honorable senators I listened with much interest to the statement of the Minister  (Senator Collett)  giving information concerning the war activities of the Government. We on this side are in complete agreement with the Ministry in its decision to prosecute the war to a successful issue. The task of placing Australia on a war footing in a limited time is a colossal one, and I believe that that is recognized by all sections of the community. I am convinced also that, as the result of the measures adopted by the Government, Australia will, in future, be more selfcontained than it has been, and that before very long we shall be constructing aircraft of all descriptions, tanks, guns of all calibres, and, in fact, al] kinds of munitions and equipment necessary for the effective defence of this country. 
In a question which I put to the Leader of the Senate recently, I inquired as to what steps the Government proposed to take to deal with the position of the 31,000 people who had registered for employment at the munitions establishments in Victoria. The Minister told me that the Government hoped, before long, to absorb the great majority of those workers. It had been my intention to say something on this subject last week in the debate on the motion by  Senator Amour  for the disallowance of regulations under tha National Security Act, but the opportunity was denied me. I had intended to impress upon the Ministry the urgent need for immediate action to provide work for the huge number of men and women seeking employment in those establishments. In furtherance of its programme, the Government has decided to construct in South Australia defence establishments that may rival Maribyrnong, where employment is given to about 11,000 men and women. This will call for an adequate supply of industrial workers and will, no doubt, mean the transfer from other States of a large number of operatives. It is to be hoped that this transfer will be carried out without unnecessary friction. I have no doubt that scores of men will be glad to go from one State to another if they have a reasonable chance of regular work. In order to avoid hardship, the Government would do well to confer with leading union officials with a view to facilitating the transfer of the necessary labour for the various establishments. That the transfer to South Australia of a large number will be necessary is obvious, because it would not be wide of the mark to say that not more than oneeighth of the required labour is available in South Australia at the present time. This transfer of households from one State to another is a tremendous undertaking. 
I think that most honorable senators were stunned at the gravity of the international situation, as revealed in . the statement of the Minister. The present fear is that the world situation has deteriorated since that statement was made. Consequently the Government is faced with a task of unprecedented magnitude. We have been told that this country is already committed to an expenditure, for war purposes, of £453,000,000, spread over three years. In this connexion, I was disappointed that the recent war loan was not heavily oversubscribed. As a matter of fact the subscriptions were just about sufficient to meet the Government's requirements. I should have thought that with this country in imminent danger there would have been a rush of subscribers having capital to invest in order to ensure an overwhelming success of the issue. If the loan had been over-subscribed three or four times, that would have been evidence of the determination of the people to stand firmly behind the Government's war policy. It could not be urged that a generous response by the moneyed classes would have implied inequality of sacrifice, because the workers who have enlisted for active service abroad are prepared to give their lives for Australia. Therefore, it is not unreasonable to expect the wealthier sections of the community to subscribe more liberally to the Government's proposals for financing this war. I hope that a greater realization of Australia's danger will result in a more generous response to future appeals by the Government. How an expenditure for war of £435,750,000 in three years is to be met I do not know. 
 Senator Darcey  may think that the financing of this war would be easy if the Government followed the course he has suggested on so many occasions. I believe that something along those lines may have to be done during this war, and that eventually a larger volume of credit will have to be made available through theCommonwealth Bank, but I am not so foolish as to claim that the bank financed the last war. We know that it did not, but it was instrumental in raising war loans at a rate of interest that was reasonable in comparison with the charges that would be made by the private banks. I therefore believe that the people of this country would welcome a more liberal banking policy to meet our pressing needs. This question will probably become a burning issue at the approaching elections. The royal commission appointed by the Lyons Government to inquire into and report upon our banking and monetary systems submitted important recommendations which that Government ignored. It was our bad luck that Labour was not then in power. If we had been, we would have been able to implement some, at least, of the recommendations of the commission with a view to obviating the almost hopeless financial position into which we are drifting. Our interest commitments on overseas and internal debts amount to £45,000,000 a year. 
-So far as I am aware, no. 
Then finance is not a present difficulty. 
The Minister for Defence has recently made arrangements for the establishment of new military training camps, for which a colossal sum is required. I believe that if he took advantage of the organized and skilled labour in the various railway workshops it would be possible, by employing 900 or 1,000 of these skilled workmen, to provide accommodation for soldiers in camps, not permanent, perhaps, but sufficient to meet the needs of the Army for an expenditure much below that contemplated. 
I regret that Senators Amour and Armstrong are not in the chamber this afternoon, because what I have to say may be of interest to them. I have yet to learn that the Government, in any part of its war programme, has contravened any industrial award. If there had been a breach of industrial conditions I for one, and I am sure my colleagues in the 
Labour party, would have protested immediately. We have given our pledge to stand behind the Government in its war effort. That pledge has been honoured to the full. This Government could not carry on without the complete cooperation of the Labour movement. We have reason to be proud of the part which we have played in supporting the Government's war programme. Our purpose is to strengthen the hands of the Ministry to the fullest possible extent, so that if war comes to our shores our soldiers shall have an even chance against an aggressor. I believe that in the coming elections party issues will, to some extent, be forgotten because of the grave danger confronting the people of this country. No doubt there will be recriminations, but I think that it can be fairly said that since the outbreak of the war Labour senators and Labour members in the House of Representatives have given the Government the fullest possible support. I am glad  that  sordid issues will be forgotten in the coming political contest. It would be un- Australian and un-British for any one to endeavour to .capitalize, for political purposes, the errors of the Government in connexion with its war activities of the past year. 
I fear that the developments in the next few months may be even more serious than those we have experienced up to the present time. I, therefore, welcome the appointment by this Government of the Chief Justice of the Commonwealth,  Sir John  Latham, as Minister to represent Australia in Tokyo. I am convinced that this appointment will, more than anything else, assure our eastern neighbours, and the world at large, that we desire to live in peace with them. The presence of an Australian Minister in Tokyo should do much to cement the friendship between the two governments and ensure that the nation whose warships escorted Australian soldiers overseas in the last war will not., in this conflict, be hostile. I compliment the Government on the selection. It is reassuring to know that the appointment of  Sir John  Latham has- been well received in Japan and that, at an early date, the Government of that country will reciprocate by appointing a Minister to represent Japan at Canberra. The selection of  Sir John  Latham was a wise one, which, I think, has won the general approbation of the men and women of this country, and also of other parte of the world. 
With every other member of this chamber,I fully realize the seriousness of the situation with which we are confronted at the present time, and I believe that everything possible is being done to meet it. Australia has men of skill and courage who are ready to fight, when that becomes necessary, and, as I have said on many occasions, the men and women in our workshops are second to none in efficiency. The people generally are loyal to Australia and to the Mother Country. After all, 99 per cent, of Australians are of British descent. Next to Australia we love the Old Land. We desire that England shall get all the help that we can give, and that Australia also shall be well defended. 
. -I have listened from time to time to statements by the Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Senator Collett)  on the international situation, but I desire to-day to bring under the notice of the Senate a cheering feature of the position to which our attention has not yet been directed. A heartening article, entitled "Britain Born Again", was published in the July number of the Tas- manian Public Service journal. It reads as follows: - 
England was born again on the day the French capitulated to Germany. The seed of this new birth was sown in the womb of time on the day Bleriot flew across the Channel. Up to then, England had lived under many traditions. First, that of our old friend, " Micawber ". Another was that England would ever be an island, assured of safety so long as she controlled the waters blue, and the last one was that the problem of British defence meant primarily the defence of France more than any other thing. 
Unhappy France! "The defeat of France", they said, " meant the downfall of the British Empire ". We should sink, they said, to " a conscript appanage of Germanic powers". Hence the need of huge and ever-increasing armies in France, to defend France. 
Germany, too. believed these things. They never had in 1914 or in 1939 any fear that France herself would prove equal to repelling a. German invasion. France always lacked the German perfection of organisation and readiness for war. So much the worse for England, as it has proved. Germany has always treated France with contempt. She was sure she could always, and very easily, destroy all 
France's land forces and Britain's, too - in France. France was to be a death-trap for Britain. 
So Germany convinced Petain and many others, and had we fought on over the same ground again to the end, simply trying to thrust Germany back with the French forces unready, unconfident in defence, uncertain in offence, and unaided in extremis, no matter how undaunted our land forces, they would have suffered agonies on the way to annihilation far worse than in 1914-1919. 
The idea was in every mind that only British help could save France.That only by saving France could Britain save herself. All British, French and German war dreams have been built on that hypothesis. That France and Britain were inseparable, and that (despite Bleriot) land forces would again have to bear the brunt of the attack, and finally determine the issue on French or German soil. The 1914-18 war seemed to prove the theory that Britain's splendid isolation was absolutely finished - that only in Europe could her safety be fought for and won. 
Now a miracle has happened. All these theories and traditions are gone by the board. That hoary old creed of French defences has gone for ever. We are now isolated and best of all rid of responsibilities which in loyalty to France would have poured millions of our best men into the pits of hell, and the furies of war, disease, terrors, tortures and death, with the extra burden of lukewarm allies posing as compatriots, until the time came - as inevitably it must - for them, the waverers. to lay down their arms in circumstances giving the British no chance to escape from the wrack and ruin. 
That this has happened at so small a cost to Britain is indeed a miracle. Sweeping aside all traditions, it leaves us to what we feared most of all - splendid isolation. Something which a year ago meant the worst possible position. Something which today means a thousand times more unconquerable position than alliance with armies beaten by self-defeatisms, before the war was declared. 
That propaganda of defeatism with which Hitler had inoculated our Quondam friends, has robbed Hitler of his prey. No longer will Britain pour millions of men into the furnace of hell he prepared for them, worse, much worse, than in the last war. The French front, in spite of the Maginot Line - even if ever a line, as believed originally, instead of a dummy hurdle - would have proved a veritable slaughter-house to no purpose except that of holding to a worn-out tradition, that the cost must not be counted. 
So fearful a maelstrom of death and destruction that its reality justifies to some extent Petain's fear of the consequences. But, admitting this, he might have conceived a united retreat and the preservation of every source of strength which France could have afforded to fall back on England's shores. This proves that loyalty to Britain had no part in his make-up, or break-up, as the case may be. 
Now a miracle has been wrought. Britain is free. In her freedom, even if isolated temporarily, lies her strength. From the pits of hell millions have been saved. Can we count that nothing? Despite Hitler's cunning, or because of it, the collapse, arranged doubtless before the war began, as witness the Maginot Line business, came too soon, and his vast armies are left fly-catching in a desolated France, with immense problems growing round them day and night. Armies, which must face all the long periods of danger, necessity tempest, famine and sudden death, starvation and revolution, while our lads remain in comparative safety and comfort, instead of rotting and dying in France while wa'iting interminably in muck and filth for the zero hours ill which to do their bit. 
So, despite new dangers, soldiering in England for the foot-sloggers is a pink silk stocking game compared with the filth of Flanders, and for the men of the boot and spur, a new game of " Tally Ho " with big game to chase as it shows up in the field. For these - now close to all the amenities of civilisation with no more danger to face in reality than a civilian child - a new war era has dawned, while Germans have to face, all the old horrors of waiting and war in every conceivably horrible phase until they meet their doom from sudden death or starvation. Yea, verily! England is born again to a greater heritage than ever. 
In reply to  a  question asked by  Senator. Aylett  in the Senate this afternoon,  Senator McBride  stated that the total amount of credit loaned by the Commonwealth Bank to the Australian Wheat Board, in respect of the 1938-39 harvest was £2,334,000, and, in respect of the 1939-40 harvest, £28,287,000. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I point out to  Senator Darcey  that the Minister's statement dealt with matters relating to the war. 
My point is that, if the Commonwealth Bank can advance credit for wheat, it could also provide it for war purposes. I recently presented to the Senate a petition signed by almost 3,000 persons, urging the Government to finance the war with interest-free money issued through the Commonwealth Bank. Last week, in Sydney, I met the persons who organized that petition. They could, if necessary, have obtained the signatures of thousands of other citizens. I, myself, obtained 1,200 signatures in Hobart. At least 200,000 or 300,000 residents of Australia are definitely of the opinion that the money required for the conduct of the war could be advanced, free of interest, by the Commonwealth Bank; in fact, resolutions demanding that this be done have been carried in three State parliaments in Australia. Hundreds of public meetings have been held throughout the country, at which resolutions on the lines of this petition have been carried, and they have been forwarded to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies). 
The people of Australia are supposed to enjoy democratic government. Under a truly democratic form of government, the people would get what they wanted; but it can be proved that the people of this country do not get what they want. Democratic government implies government of the people by the people for the people. Do we want war? Of course we do not, but we are getting it. Do we want poverty amidst plenty ? No, but we have poverty. Do we want malnutrition and unemployment? Certainly not, but we have both. Therefore, the people are not self-governed. We know what the Commonwealth Bank was established for, and three State parliaments are demanding that it shall be employed for the purpose of providing interest-free money, lt was the first and only bank in the world to be established for the purpose of meeting the financial needs of the people. Honorable senators opposite have never contended that interest-free money could not be provided ; they merely sit hack and say nothing. 
The war cannot be viewed from a more important aspect than that of finance. The Government has stated that the total cost of the war, up to 1944, will probably be £435,750,000. At least 80 per cent, of that amount will be borrowed in the usual way by the Government through the private banks, and part of it through the Commonwealth Bank. 
The demand for monetary reform is nation-wide. Hundreds of meetings in favour of it have been held throughout Australia.  Even that conservative body,  the Country party  of  Victoria, despite its leader,  Mr. Dunstan,  has carried  a  resolution demanding that the Commonwealth Bank be used for the purposes for which it was established, so that this war may he financed with interest-free money. I nave before me a book entitled  Victory Without Debt.  I am almost tired of repeating my views regarding government finance, but repetition seems to be necessary. The Government has said that it will be necessary to borrow £435,750,000 to carry  ob  the war, but I claim that it is more important for us to discuss how the money shall be raised than how it shall be expended. No member of this chamber would suggest that it will be possible for Australia to carry on this war for a long period with loan money hearing interest at the rate of 3 per cent. The interest would have to be paid through the bank* or raised by means of taxation. The latter process would be worse than the former, since it would result in depleting the hard-earned cash of the people. What will happen? The private banks can only lend against their deposits. We are here to look after the interests of the taxpayers, but the policy of the Government is to conserve the interests of the private banks. We have been told that the Commonwealth Bank is partly financing the Government's war effort. It is, but only a very small part, and only to the degree to which the private banks will allow it to rely upon the Commonwealth Bank. I again protest against the way in which this money is being raised. If we pursue this policy we shall he ruined financially when the war. is over. We cannot expect 7,000,000 people to carry this burden of debt. Australia's national debt to-day is twice the amount of the national debt of the United Kingdom in 1914. I am glad to have had this opportunity to read the article, " Britain Born Again ". It shows that the British peoples have a better chance of winning this war than when France was in the field on our side. The Treasurer said that the Royal Commission on Banking- 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the question before the Senate. 
.- I wish to bring before the Senate certain facts concerning the calling -for tenders for the construction of huts at the Ai. Force training school at Western Junction, Launceston. A deputation representative of builders and contractors interested in this work waited upon me at my home on the 31st July and explained that the time allowed for tendering did not give them sufficient opportunity to prepare and submit tenders. The tenders were called on the 25th July, and closed on the 2nd August. When the matter was brought under my notice I sent the following telegram to the Commonwealth Works Director, - Melbourne : - 
Understand six contractors are waiting for plans to tender for quarters at Western Junction Aerodrome. Request extension for one week. Post office say it is impossible for all to be served in the time allowed. 
To .that telegram I received the following reply:- 
Owing to Air Department requiring urgent commencement work at Western Junction regret cannot extend date for receipt of tenders. Tenders by telegram will be allowed. Six sets of 37 sheets each of buildings have been forwarded to Tasmania for tenderers. 
I point out that three of the tender sets were sent to Hobart and three to Launceston. Although each set consisted of 37 sheets, builders were given only 24 hours in which to submit their tenders. Consequently, their complaint is fully justified. When tenderers are not given an opportunity to prepare their estimates carefully they are prone to cover themselves against risk by allowing large sums for contingencies. The builders who waited upon me were very angry about this matter. Originally thirteen persons were waiting for the plans, but seven of them were precluded from tendering. Dealing with this matter the  Launceston Examiner  of the 1st August reported - 
I appeal to the Government to give to Western Australia a greater share of our war-manufacturing programme. Recently I read in the press that the Government had allocated a large sum of money to be expended in Western Australia in this direction. It should go ahead with that work immediately. The workshops and workmen required arp available in that State. As Western Australia is the gateway to the Commonwealth it is entitled to greater consideration from a defence viewpoint than has hitherto been given to it. We should have a maximum production of aircraft, munitions and equipment to win and hold dearly the freedom we now enjoy. Australia's defence must be extended. No longer dare we dabble in half measures', Australia must make itself a military nation through and through. In the last war many Western Australian factories were engaged in the manufacture of war materials, and most of the workmen then employed are still available. Following the Government's announcement that it proposed to establish munitions works in Western Australia, I endeavoured to find out when a commencement was to be made. I made inquiries at the Railway Department, where I was informed that no information was available. It is hardly fair for the Government to make an announcement of this kind and then leave the public in suspense as to the date of commencement of the work. I can see no reason for the delay, because it is essential that we press on with our defence preparation as speedily as possible. Bearing in mind that Western Australia is the largest of the States in area but ranks only fifth on a population basis, it cannot be said that that State &gt;'is being treated fairly in respect of defence expenditure. I repeat that all of the facilities required for the manufacture of war material exist in Western Australia. In the last war boot factories in that State achieved a reputation. It was said that they manufactured the best military boots. Of all the soldiers' equipment, boots are possibly the most important item to his comfort. I again urge the Government to establish an annexe in Western Australia as soon as possible, and to announce full details of its proposal. 
'When I see so many thousands of men still out of work, and am unable to find a first-class military aerodrome in the Commonwealth, I do not agree that the Government is doing all that it could do in the prosecution of our war effort. OU main oil storage tanks are still dangerously exposed to attack. This state of affairs is very disturbing in view of the warnings recently uttered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender).  .Indeed, only a snort while ago, the Treasurer said that it might be only a matter of a few months when Australia would be suffering as Britain is suffering to-day. Such warnings make us wonder whether the Gorvernment is doing everything that can be done to promote our defence. It states that it is doing its best to accelerate the rate of production of aeroplanes in Australia; I do not doubt its sincerity of purpose, but it seems to have overlooked an important aspect of air defence - the safe housing of Air Force machines and supplies. There are no Royal Australian Air Force hangars, oil-storage tanks or munitions dumps under bomb-proof shelters. The Government should learn of the importance of such protection from events overseas, where the Royal Air Force is destroying German aerodromes and enemy machines are trying to destroy British aerodromes. The thousands of unemployed in Australia to-day are mostly unskilled men who, although they cannot be employed in munitions and arms factories, are capable of building military aerodromes and bomb-proof shelters for oil and munitions stores. In Europe today, many aeroplane hangars are constructed in the sides of hills. "Where aerodromes are on level country shelters have been constructed underground, and machines and supplies are dragged to the surface by small tractors. Therefore, when those aerodromes are subjected to attacks, machines and supplies which are not in use at the time are safe from bomb explosions. A different state of affairs prevails in Australia. All of our aerodromes are fully exposed to aerial attack. I have with me designs of the type of protected hangar used in many European countries. If Ministers have not already  seen them, I shall be glad to make them available for examination. Within a few miles of Western Junction, where I understand an air-training school is to be established in the near future at a cost of £30,000 or £40,000, there is an ideal site for a modern military aerodrome. It would be easy to build hangars in the side of a nearby hill and excavate oil-storage tanks and munitions dumps in positions that would be safe from attack. I realize that the Government will not have time to take the action I have suggested before the elections are held, but, should it be returned to office, I hope that it will endeavour to absorb all unemployed men in Australia in useful defence work. I shall be glad to accompany Ministers, or defence experts, to the site near Western Junction to which I have referred. Equally suitable sites exist in other parts of Australia, and their proper development for defence purposes would employ unskilled men, whom the Government says it is unable to employ in munitions factories. 
I agree with  Senator Aylett  that the Government is not doing all that it could do in the interests of Australia's defence. I have in mind a statement made yesterday by  Mr. Essington  Lewis, a responsible officer of the Commonwealth, in reply to a deputation which interviewed him in regard to the extension of war activities in the northern area of New South Wales.  Mr. Essington  Lewis said that there were 46,000 unemployed men in New South Wales, 5,000 in Victoria and 7,000 in South Australia. I understand that the Government has decided to establish an explosives factory in Adelaide. According to report, the factory will cover an area of 3,000 acres and will ultimately employ 30,000 people. I cannot understand why the Government ha3 decided to erect it in South Australia. I believe in a fair distribution of defence expenditure among all of the States of the Commonwealth, but the first consideration in making the division should be the economic resources of each State. Another factor is that of population and the percentage of unemployed men. As the result of its failure to give proper consideration to these points before deciding to erect a big factory in South Australia, the Government is likely to have difficulty in finding sufficient employees to do the work of the establishment. Housing accommodation for munitions workers in New South Wales is inadequate, and consequently skilled workmen are leaving that State almost daily. The Government should heed my warning. If the housing position is acute in New South Wales, in the neighborhood of a factory employing only 2,000 people, the position will be much more acute in South Australia when 30,000 employees are engaged for the new factory. 
New South Wales is highly industrialized and produces 90 per cent, of the Commonwealth's coal, iron and steel. Supplies of those materials will have to be transported to the new factory in South Australia, and the finished articles will then have to be transported back to the main centres of population for distribution. That is not an economical proposition. Victoria has already been given unduly favorable consideration in the allocation of defence expenditure, and now it appears that South Australia, a State with a relatively small population and suffering disabilities due to lack of supplies, is to be favoured by the establishment of one of the largest munitions factories in the Commonwealth. 
I am a strong supporter of decentralization, but a factory as large as the one to be established in South Australia will be out of proportion to the population and material resources of that State. The factory should be erected in a more populous State, such as New South Wales, whose 46,000 unemployed men could be drawn upon to provide tie factory with a staff. The machinery in munitions establishments is easy to operate and most of the men employed in them are merely process workers. I admit that skilled technicians, such as toolmakers, are required, but their numbers are relatively small. Almost anybody could work a machine after receiving a week's training. The material requirements of the new factory are available in New South Wales. 
Iron is manufactured in New South Wales. 
Some of it is imported from Tasmania. 
New South Wales has obtained iron ore from Tasmania and from its own western districts. The Government apparently did not consider these facts before it decided to establish the new factory in South Australia. I trust that the Government will give close attention to the subjects which I have raised, particularly with respect to the housing of munitions workers and others. In those localities where factories are established it is the responsibility of the Government, acting in cooperation with the State governments, to ensure that all employees shall be properly housed, particularly in view of the fact that it would be futile to have soldiers on active service if our factories could not supply them with arms and munitions. 
 I compliment New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia on the efforts that are being made to establish powerful secondary industries in those States, and I trust that in the near future similar industries will be established in Western Australia. It has been said that 90 per cent, of the coal and a similar percentage of the steel and steel products used by the Commonwealth is produced in New South Wales.  Senator James  McLachlan said that the main supply of iron ore is obtained in South Australia. In Western Australia we have a huge coal deposit at Collie, which is only fifteen miles from the important seaport of Bunbury. We also have iron ore at Yampi and, as these resources have not yet been tested at depth, it is impossible to say what quantity may eventually be made available. In these circumstances the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the Government of Western Australia, should consider the establishment of a power plant at Collie, with the object of transmitting electrical current to Bunbury and also to the metropolitan area, a distance of a little over 100 miles. The current from such a plant could also be transmitted in a southerly direction to link up with the important port of Albany, on King George's Sound. All such important undertakings have been neglected by this and preceding governments. I may be asked what connexion there is between 
Yampi and a power plant at Collie, or the transmission of electric current to Bunbury. The answer is that it should be possible to  generate  electric power at Collie for treating iron ore for export to established manufacturing industries in other States. Such an industry would be of benefit to the Commonwealth defence policy, and provide permanent employment provided for a large number of men. It would necessitate the erection of additional residences and the improvement of those already in existence, thus stimulating the building industry inWestern Australia. Neither this nor any other Commonwealth Government should allow such important projects to remain in abeyance indefinitely. If we are to be a progressive people and are to build up a virile nation we must develop the latent wealth that is available in every State for the general good of the whole community. There are some who may say that in a national emergency every penny is required for defence purposes. We admit that, but works such as those to which I have referred should be brought within the Government's defence policy. The Government, does not appear to have any plan for the future, and is just scratching along from day to day. If the Government has' a plan we have not heard of it. As the Minister who made the statement we are discussing is a representative of Western Australia, I trust that he will give us some information as to the policy of the Government with respect to the establishment of industries in that State. We are entitled to some information on this important subject, and naturally I expect a fellow-representative of Western Australia to tell us what the Government proposes to do in the matter. I can assure the Minister that I shall be only too willing to support any policy that is likely to benefit Western Australia. 
 in reply  - During the debate on this motion, which relates to international relations, some honorable senators have discussed Australia's war effort, but others have dealt with matters which have no relation to the subject-matter of my statement. I was impressed with the earnestness of some of the speeches, and the fact that some honorable senators realize the effect which the war may have on Australia, and how vital it is that there should be co-ordination of effort and a common will to bring about the end which we all desire. In co-ordinating our effort for the common good it is rather helpful to know that there is no strong indication of a desire to adopt a parochial outlook. Reference has been made by  Senator Cunningham  to the establishment of secondary industries in Western Australia. I would remind the honorable senator who put several pointed questions to me, which were not without guile, that the planning of works in that State is only partially developed. It has already been stated in the press that the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  proposes to let contracts in Western Australia valued at £1,500,000, but before doing so tools must be purchased and the acquisition of machinery arranged. That cannot be done in a week. 
It takes a long time to organize our part in a war of the magnitude of that which is now being waged, particularly when obstructions are placed in our way. The honorable senators opposite must admit that the Government has been faced with some obstructions and discouragement. Every avenue will be explored, and every State will be asked to do its best in accordance with the labour and the resources at its disposal. The decentralization of secondary industries and munition works is being observed as far as practicable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Honorable senators will regret that owing to indisposition  Senator Fraser,  who secured the adjournment of the debate on this motion, is unable to resume the debate to-day. The statement before the Senate is one of the most important that has been submitted to this chamber in connexion with Australia's war activities. The members of the Opposition are not unmindful, even to a small degree, of the tremendous volume of work with which Ministers have been confronted in the negotiations which have taken place in connexion with the production and distribution of Australia's primary products, but I am afraid they have not developed what might be termed an Australian outlook upon many of its defence activities. I am very much afraid that its policy consists largely of taking suggestions and instructions from No. 10 Downing-street. It appears that the Government has got into the habit of saying " yes " to every proposition submitted to it by the British. Government. I may be exaggerating the position, but up to the present I have not seen in any of the ministerial statements presented to this Parliament, or in the actions taken by the Government, any definite declaration on behalf of Australia. It is possible that such negotiations may have been conducted in a different spirit. Australia is a wonderful country. No similar number of persons has accomplished in the same time anything approaching what has been done in Australia within the last 150 years. That is not merely a patriotic statement or an Australian boast. It is true, and responsible Ministers who have come to Australia from the United Kingdom have expressed, both to me personally, and to other people, their astonishment at what 
We have done. Such astonishment was admitted by  Mr. Amery,  and also by  Sir Arthur  Duckham,  chairman  of the British Economic Mission - that little company known as the " Big Four ", who came here in order to give us some advice and, no doubt, to obtain some advice and experience. Australia is entitled to a place in the sun on its own account, and for that reason I should like to say in passing that I deeply regret that the Government has not yet legislated for the adoption of the Statute of Westminster, as it should have done long ago. Had that action been taken, there would not now be talk of appealing to the Old 
Country for power to extend the life of this Parliament, because such an appeal would not be necessary. Australia should accept her rightful place in the sun. 
The ministerial statement dealt with important primary products, in connexion with some of which Australia is receiving anything but a good deal. If the Government believes for one moment that the wool-growers of Australia are satisfied with arrangements made for the disposal of their clip, I cannot possibly imagine how such a complacent belief has arisen. It is obvious that members of the Government do not travel among the wool-growers to the same degree that I do in Queensland, which is very largely a wool-producing State. I regret that the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  is not in the chamber, because recently he made a statement in Brisbane which I have had no opportunity to refute publicly, but with which I shall deal now.  Senator Foil's  statement is a typical example of the Government's wrong outlook on this important matter of primary production, even when it does what I consider to be the right thing. I believe, of course, that the Government did the right thing when it renewed the sugar agreement, and also when it extended the period of the cotton bounty. Queensland produces the bulk of Australia's sugar requirements, and very nearly all of the cotton grown in Australia. When I was asked by a newspaper representative for my opinion with regard to the holding of Cabinet meetings in Brisbane, I remarked that I thought it a waste of time and money, especially when economy was being urged so insistently. I added that in any case the Cabinet meetings held in Brisbane would do no more than record decisions which had been made long previously, and, in these circumstances, I thought that the gesture was mere futility. Next day,  Senator Foll  expressed great surprise at what I had said, and added that such remarks came with ill grace from a Queensland senator, because the Commonwealth Government had renewed the sugar agreement and extended the period of the cotton bounty. That is a very wrong outlook. If this Government extended the sugar agreement as a compliment to Queensland, then it did a very wrong thing. Of course, I know that that was not the reason. Whatever may be  Senator Foil's  opinion, the Government obviously extended the sugar agreement because failure to do so would have been calamitous to one of Australia's greatest industries, which produces a vital necessity both in peace and in war. Also, had the Commonwealth Government not extended the cotton bounty, I do not know what other activity the growers could have engaged in. The extension of that bounty was not a mere compliment to Queensland : it was a necessary action, because cotton is of the utmost importance in war-time. I repeat that in the disposal of our wool, the Government struck a very poor bargain indeed. I believe that the Government was under the impression, as I think we all were, that the sale of the whole of this season's clip to the Government of the United Kingdom meant that any neutral country requiring Australian wool would obtain it through that Government. But nothing of the sort has been done. In the first place, the Australian price is certainly nothing like commensurate with the cost of production. This is the kind of thing that makes me suspect that in regard to wool, the policy of distribution is being dictated from Bradford. Of course, it always has been to some degree, and now, apparently, Bradford is in a position to exert full control. As an integral part of the British Commonwealth of Nations Australia must make a valuable contribution to the war effort by selling its primary products to the United Kingdom. But what is happening now? The agreement for the sale of our wool-clip provides that profits from re-sales are to be shared by Australia and the United Kingdom ; but there is to be no re-sale of wool. There will be a sale of British manufactured woollen goods, Bradford will reap all the profits, and the Australian growers will not benefit at all. 
There is nothing in the agreement which gives to the wool-growersthe right to any profits derived from the sale of manufactured goods. 
The interjection by the honorable senator from Queensland, who. is a wool-grower and knows very much more about the technical side of wool-growing than I do, confirms the definite statement which I have just made. The honorable senator was not given the information which he sought, because it would be damaging to any kind of an Australian outlook on the position. I say emphatically that we have no right to sell Australian products to the United Kingdom Government or to any other government or purchaser, if all that the Australian growers will get is an appraisement price which is lower than the cost of production. 
With all due respect to  Senator Abbott,  I am not quite sure that he knows just what he is talking about. 
I should like to know with what section of the Australian wool-growers the honorable senator has been in touch, that has enabled him to say that the growers are grateful for the arrangements that have been made. I also have been in touch with woolgrowers' organizations, in my own State at any rate, and they certainly are not satisfied with the original agreement or the way in which it has worked out. There are quite a number of catches in the agreement; it provides for appraisements here and appraisements there, but not appraisements somewhere else. 
I should like now to say a few words about wheat. Very little wheat is grown in Queensland. I think our last season's crop was, for the first time, bigger than our home-consumption requirements. Hitherto we had grown only enoughwheat to satisfy a part of our requirements, and we had imported the balance from other States. But I am not interested in wheat-growing merely as a representative of Queensland; wheatgrowing is one of Australia's greatest industries. Under my leadership the Opposition in this chamber has never failed to put up the best possible fight on behalf of the wheat-growers, not because of any special sympathy with them, but because wheat-growing is an important natural industry without which this nation cannot exist. For that reason we have always supported the industry, but we never have been able to persuade the Government to do the right thing by it, namely, to stop handing out doles to mendicant wheat-growers, year after year. The Government should stabilize the wheat industry in the same way as Queensland has stabilized the sugar industry. There is the example; give the people who grow wheat a chance for the first time in their lives. 
Of course. 
And what kind of a home-consumption price ? It is nothing like the price advocated by the Opposition in this chamber. We in Queensland have shown how the job may be done. It is not only necessary to fix a homeconsumption price; in addition, the industry must be so organized that production shall be regulated, and immediately a state of over-production is reached, proper measures shall be taken and proper means supplied, to enable an equitable distribution of the crop. 
It has. I regret that that interjection has been made, because it shows how little the honorable senator understands the position. 
No matter how much a grower produces he cannot get bis cane crushed unless he has a permit from the mill that he supplies, and then only the permitted acreage. The growers know beforehand how much they will have to plant, and if a grower produces more than his allotted quantity, he has to leave his cane standing because he cannot get it crushed. There is a simple reason for limiting production. When sufficient sugar to meet home-consumption demands has been grown, the remainder must be sold abroad at world parity. In Queensland all the money received at the homeconsumption price goes into one pool and the money received at world parity for the sale of sugar overseas goes into another pool. The two pools are then amalgamated, and the growers are paid accordingly. Every ton of sugar which is exported reduces the final return to the growers, and for that reason they wish to export as small a proportion of their total production as possible. Of course, as an exportable commodity, sugar is valuable in connexion with the balancing of our overseas trade. That is the position with regard to sugar, and conditions should be similar with regard to wheat. 
It is a good thing that this year our production of sugar will be greater than in any previous season because Great Britain is asking for it. But we are still limiting production. In Queensland the board watches carefully the production figures as well as many other details in connexion with the industry. I say in no spirit of carping criticism - it seems almost a futility, at this time, to talk of competing policies - that in connexion with primary production the Opposition in this Parliament has been consistent over the years. I may . add, also, that its policy has not been determined behind closed doors or in the privacy of bank parlours. It has been fixed by the rank and file of the Labour movement, and it has been printed and freely circulated for the information of all who care to read it. If an honorable senator is not conversant with Labour's policy, he should obtain a copy of the document and inform his mind. He will find that with regard to primary production the policy contains safeguards against the difficulties I am mentioning. If we had been in a position to give effect to our policy, the criticism which I am now offering would not be heard,  because there would not be reason for it. I say, in all seriousness, that I am well aware of the difficulties confronting the Minister for Commerce; but I also say that these problems have not arisen overnight. They have been in evidence in connexion with primary production for many years; they were causing concern before the outbreak of war made the overseas situation so much more perplexing. Ever since the war clouds began to gather, the Opposition in this Parliament has been stressing the need for the adoption of a Government programme that would surmount the difficulties now confronting the Minister for Commerce. We know that steps are being taken to deal with some of the problems, but that action is so belated as to be of doubtful immediate value. However, I am glad that these steps have been taken, and I hope that they will be speeded up, so that we may be able to surmount some of our troubles. But the fact remains - and we have stressed it over and over again - that we were proud of the Australian Commonwealth Line of Steamers and we protested strenuously against its sale. If those vessels had been retained and were in the service of the Government to-day, they would have been of real value in this, our hour of peril. 
I am not so sure of that. Some are still sailing the seven seas, and I repeat that if they had not been sacrificed we would not to-day be in such a serious position with regard to shipping space for our surplus primary products. A mercantile marine is one of the surest safeguards in time of national emergency. 
Nevertheless the Minister has told us of our present shipping difficulties, particularly with regard to wheat, and has stressed the need for additional tonnage. The emergency of war has made the position more acute. 
Recently this chamber passed legislationproviding for the payment of a bounty on the building of ships in this country. We on this side protested that the Government's proposal did not go far enough. We urged that the bounty should be payable on ships of a greater tonnage than was provided for in the bill. We now learn that the Government has decided to pay a bounty for the building of ships far larger than were at first contemplated. 
I am glad to know that at least one Government supporter still thinks that " God's in  His  Heaven - all's right with the world ! " Evidently the honorable gentleman believes that the Government's arrangements to send our surplus primary products overseas are completely satisfactory. That is not so. 
The honorable senator interjected that ships formerly owned by the Commonwealth Government are still trading to and from Australia. He implied there is no great difficulty about getting our wheat away. The facts are otherwise. The Minister for Commerce has not told us of what is happening to the huge supplies of Australian wheat now stored in this country - how it is being eaten by mice and ravaged by weevils because it cannot be sent away. 
If the honorable senator thinks that I am misrepresenting him his proper course is to make notes of what he regards as inaccuracies in my speech and, when the opportunity is presented, rise in his place and correct them. 
There is in the statement one thing for which I give credit to the Minister responsible for it. I am glad to know that, in the interests of primary producers, the Minister for Commerce does not endorse the inconsistent attitude of some members of this chamber. He has told our wheat-growers that they must face the situation and must accept his advice to restrict production for the time being. They must realize that it would be impossible for the Commonwealth Government to guarantee the disposal of the entire uncontrolled wheat production of Australia to the British Government. I give credit to the Minister for Commerce for his courage. On more than one occasion I have said that I realized the tremendous responsibility resting on the Minister's shoulders and the magnitude of the task of arranging for the sale of our primary products during the war. But I repeat that his responsibility would be lessened and our task made easier if, in this national Parliament, we adopted a purely Australian outlook and at the same time sternly discouraged any attempt to profiteer by the sale of our products. When 1 speak of a purely Australian outlook in relation to our problems I do not suggest that we should in any way act in conflict with the policy of the British 'Government. But I am convinced that if, in all we do, we have an Australian outlook we shall be making an important contribution to Empire defence, and make possible the successful emergence of the Empire from the desperate struggle in which it is engaged. Therefore, I plead now, as I have pleaded on other occasions, for a definite Australian outlook and a definite Australian policy. We should not seek to profiteer in the sale of our wheat, wool, sugar or any other Australian product. The first essential of such a policy is to safeguard the interests of the primary producers, who are the backbone of the nation ; we should encourage them to produce those things that are essential, particularly in a time of national emergency, and we should make sure that they get a fair deal. I am not suggesting that the Minister or the Government could be expected to foresee all of the difficulties that may emerge in the future. 
That would require supermen in the Ministry, and I have not yet reached the stage of believing that this Government has in its ranks persons in that category. But what I do suggest is that some of the difficulties can be expected, and may be minimized by wise Government action. In other words I say that in connexion with primary production and its distribution the Opposition stands for all that is comprehended in wise legislative and administrative activity - that is a planned economy, embracing the entire field of production and distribution. How often have we seen in municipal affairs, that owing to a lack of planning, costly, well-made roads, constructed by one authority are torn up soon after completion by another authority for the purpose of laying mains, and perhaps a few months later are once more disturbed by still another authority for the purpose of laying electric cables. All of these troubles could be avoided with proper coordination between the various semigovernmental or municipal authorities. In other words, a Well-devised planned economy would obviate many of our troubles. That is what the Opposition in this Parliament stands for. It is probably a waste of time to offer any advice which will appeal to the Government, but I contend that great though our problems may be, they could be minimized if even now we took account of the situation and decided to avoid in the future, as far as humanly possible, those pitfalls which are occasioning so many difficulties to-day. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.SS to 8 p.m. 

After listening to the second-reading speech by the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  I secured the adjournment of the debate in order to give the Opposition an opportunity further to scrutinize the measure. I am glad that the Government is making provision to enfranchise those who are engaged in the great work of defending this country abroad and at home. The Opposition will support the bill, and will give it such attention in committee as may be considered necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Members of the forces entitled to vote). 
.- I should like to know why the franchise is to be limited to members of the forces who have attained the age of 21 years.I suggest that a soldier is entitled to vote, even if he be under the age of 21 years. 
That matter was considered, but, as it would be difficult to differentiate between young midshipmen in the Naval Forces, who might be only 14 or 15 years of age, and members of the Australian Imperial Force, it was thought desirable to restrict the franchise to those who had attained the age of 21 years. 
What arrangements have been made for the enrolment in Australia of members of the Australian Imperial Force who attain their twenty-first birthday while abroad, so that their votes may be recorded and counted ? 
.  - If the name of a member of the forces is not now on the roll, it will be regarded as having been placed there on his attaining the age of 21 years, and the electorate for which he will be regarded as having voted will be that from which he enlisted. 
In 1918, all men serving overseas were granted the franchise. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Scrutiny). 
.- Am I right in supposing that the votes will be counted by the returning officer who receives them, and that he will notify the Chief Electoral Officer of the result? 
The votes will be counted overseas, and the Chief Electoral Officer will be notified by cablegram of the result of the count. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 15 agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Inclusion of result of scrutiny in determining result of polling). 
.- This clause evidently deals only with the first preference votes. What will happen with regard to the other votes? 
The first preference votes will be counted on the spot by the officer overseas; but, as the distribution of the preferences might mean as many as sixteen or twenty counts, should there be a multiplicity of candidates, it was deemed desirable that the ballotpapers should be returned to this country by the quickest possible method, to enable the distribution to be made in Australia rather than by an officer overseas who might not be sufficiently conversant with the system. It is anticipated that in most cases the use of the air mails will enable the ballot-papers to be received in this country while the Senate count is in progress. It is not anticipated that there will be serious delay, because a considerable time is occupied in counting Senate votes. It is expected that there will be two air mails a week from overseas. 
I understood the Minister to mean that, although there must be some delay on account of the rather intricate method of counting the Senate ballot-papers, it would be much less if the counting of the second and other preferences were carried out by returning officers in Australia, who would probably be much more familiar than officers overseas with this work. The  delay that would be occasioned by attempting to complete the count abroad would be much greater than would be occasioned by returning the ballot-papers to Australia. 
.- I am still not satisfied as to the operation of this clause. Whilst I recognize that some of the results could be cabled to Australia, I suggest that many weeks must elapse before the ballot-papers could be obtained from the other side of the world, and until they arrived, the final count could not be completed. 
.- The firstpreference votes wouldbe cabled to Australia, but the distribution of the preferences would be carried out here. As the honorable senator knows, it is necessary to obtain all of the ballotpapers from the outback parts of Australia before the preferences can be distributed, and it is anticipated that the time occupied in obtaining these papers will be approximately the same as will be taken in obtaining the votes from members of the forces serving overseas. 
 Has the Government made arrangements for the ballot-papers to be returned to Australia by air mail as soon as practicable after the vote has been taken? I take it that the Minister means that the soldiers' votes sent by air mail will probably be received in Australia before the whole of the returns from the outback parts of Australia have come to hand. 
.- Yes. The quickest practical method of obtaining the ballot-papers from overseas will be adopted, and it is considered that the airmail service will meet the needs of the case. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 17 and 18 agreed to. 
Clause 19 (Member of forces may apply for certificate and ballot-paper). 
As three-fourths of the young men affected by this clause would not know to whom they should make application for a certificate and ballot-paper, would it not he better to allow them to qualify for a vote on swearing an affidavit on polling day  as  to their age and qualifications? . The validity of such  votes  would, of course, depend upon the details sworn  in the  affidavit being confirmed. 
 It would be inadvisable to alter this provision.I assure the honorable senator that he need entertain no fears in respect of this clause because it will apply only to men who, 
On  their return from overseas, are not enrolled. It is not anticipated that any considerable number will be affected. Every facility will be provided to enable such men to make application for a vote should they return from overseas just prior to an election. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 25 agreed to. 
Clause 26 (Scrutineers). 
 Can the Minister for the Interior give us any idea as to how the appointment of scrutineers under this clause can be made to the satisfaction of candidates ? This matter presents a good deal of difficulty. For instance, I do not know how a candidate would become aware of persons who would be available to act as scrutineers in camps abroad. 
 I admit that the honorable senator's question is something of a conundrum. Candidates in Australia will find it very difficult to appoint scrutineers overseas. However, this provision is inserted in order to give such power to any candidate, who might desire to do so. 
Arrangements to notify scrutineers could be made through the electoral office. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 27 and 28 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 On the 6th August, and again on the8th August,  Senator Brown  asked whether inquiries made by certain persons, whom he likened to " Cooper's snoopers " were authorized by the Department of Information. I have received the following reply from the department :  - 
With reference to the inquiries made by  Senator Brown  on the 8th August regarding a canvass of public opinion which is being carried on in Queensland, this canvass has not been undertaken by or on behalf of the Department of Information or any other Commonwealth department. Government funds are not being expended in connexion with it. 
It is believed that the canvass is being conducted on behalf of an Australian newspaper by a Sydney firm which specializes in research into public opinion in connexion with the marketing of merchandise, &amp;c. 
On the8th August,  Senator Fraser  asked a question relating to the banning of  Napreduk,  a newspaper published in the Yugoslav language. On this matter I have received the following reply from the Department of Information: - 
With reference to the inquiry by  Senator Fraser  on the 8th August, relative to the banning of a newspaper in the Yugoslavian language, this paper came under notice as far back as January, 1940, when a report was received from which these extracts are taken :  - " In its political tendencies ' Napredak ' is very close to the Communist . . . Everything is strongly influenced by the left point of view. It is sympathetic with the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, and approves of the pacifist element in the Labour party ". 
That the journal was being used by the Communists for the dissemination of their views was admitted by the editor in a letter in which he stated: - " We admit publishing even Communist views from time to time, on some topical and controversial questions, but as information only and not intended as propaganda ". 
.- On behalf of several old Australian Imperial Force battalion associations throughout Australia, I desire to put forward a suggestion to the Minister for the Army  (Senator McBride),  that where the shoulder colour patches of the Australian Imperial Force battalions are not identical with those of the old Australian Imperial Force, the latter be superimposed on the former. As regards the shape, it is essential that the shape be the same in each division and distinct from each other division. For instance, the 6th Division patches are oblong, the 7th diamond shaped, and the 8th oval. All of these divisions have nine battalions, as against twelve in the Great War divisions. It is, therefore, impossible for the present Australian Imperial Force Battalions to wear the identical colour patches of the corresponding old battalion. The nine battalions of the 6th Division are fortunate in being able to wear the same patches, but the other eighteen battalions are not so fortunate. Their colours have no connexion whatever with their corresponding Great War battalion. I hand to the Minister a diagram showing how the colours of the new and old Australian Imperial Force battalions can be embodied as one. The idea is not mine. It was suggested by various battalion associations. Indeed, I believe it is the wish of the present units. The link between the old and the new has already been strengthened by gifts from the old diggers of sets of drums, silver bugles, drum-major staffs, and camp colour flags. In many instances the old Australian Imperial Force associations have taken upon themselves the laudable obligation of looking after the interests of mothers and wives of the new generation of diggers. I hope that the Minister will look into this matter. The expense in renewing those patches would not be great. It would be a compliment to those famous old Australian Imperial Force battalions. It would be a source of pride to the present Australian Imperial Force, and an encouragement to them to emulate the deeds of their predecessors. For centuries every unit of the British Army retained in its regimental badge some link with the past. Sentiment  and tradition made the British Army. There would be a mutiny if officialdom tampered with its honoured badges. The equivalent in the Australian Imperial Force battalions is the colour patch. I trust that the Minister for the Army will rectify this oversight and link the young Australian Imperial Force infantrymen closer to the illustrious veterans of 1914-18, the men who made history on Gallipoli, at Pozieres, Bullecourt, Villers Bretonneux and Mont St. Quentin. 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to what appears to me to be an injustice to  Mr. George  Lewis, who is carrying on business in Western Australia as the Goldfields Airways Company. The facts of the case are set out in the following communication which I have received from  Mr. Lewis  :  - 
During these six years we have been battling along, charter flying for the mining industry, and we have got to the stage where a number of mines, scattered from Marble Bar to Kundip rely on us for flying engineers, metallurgists and various specialists around, supervising existing mines, and opening up new ones. 
I might mention here that in the next few years when Wiluna closes, these mines will be producing almost as much bullion as Wiluna ever did. 
Since they have been chosen, we have spent all our available time and quite a lot of money training Royal Australian Air Force reservists who are waiting to be called up. And we must have done a fair job, because our work has been mentioned over the wireless, and is being copied in a number of places. 
We have made a number of applications for subsidized air mail runs, from Kalgoorlie to Norseman and Esperance, Wiluna, and to Norseman and Perth, and are always refused, although our flying record is excellent. 
We are the only people in Australia to make a success of flying without a subsidy, and that has been because I am on the job all day and every day, Sundays included. Matter of fact I have not had a holiday since I started. 
I have done all the engineering myself, as well as most of the, flying. Recently I made a geological flight in the unknown country north of the Transcontinental Railway, and south of the Warburton country. We have chartered from Darwin and Pine Creek to Eucla and as far west as Albany, all over the back country and the goldfields. 
All this flying is done at a shilling a mile, the same price as is charged in England, and I suppose our help to the gold-mining industry keeps several hundred men in jobs who other- mines would not be worked. wise would not have them, because without our flying, supervision would be impossible and the 
We do all the pioneering, and a Perth firm, Airlines, who seem to be on good terms with the  Western Australian  newspaper, get all the air mail contracts. 
I am attaching a newspaper clipping which sets out the latest air mail contract given in this locality. Now I was flying patients from Norseman before there was an aerodrome there, but once again Airlines get all the cream. This discrimination in favour of Airlines appears to be going to its logical conclusion until I get pushed out or break my neck. 
I have done all our engineering with the exception of complete engine overhauls; during our six years flying, we have had one forced landing. So our standard of maintenance is high. 
The Civil Aviation Department have made me take the machines to Perth for their annual inspection, and for engine complete overhauls. 
Last February I got permission to carry out a complete overhaul of a Gipsy Six in our Percival Vega Gull, providing that the job was certified by a " B " class ground engineer in Perth. 
I did the job all right, and it was quite safe, and the engineer in Perth certified it. Then the Department would not accept this certification, and the Perth officer in charge arranged that the job be checked by Airlines engineer. 
Airlines did the job all over again, and it cost me £100, and it is an act of Providence thatI am alive now. The engine was abnormally stiff, but their engineer assured me that it would loosen up. It did not, but got worse, until my twelvestone hung on the end of the propellor would not move the propellor. 
Airlines engineer apologized, and said he would willingly ease the bearings, but he was so busy overhauling the machine they had just bought from  Mr. Fairbairn  that he had not time, so asked me to do it. 
Several other engineers whom I know well told me not to be a fool, but to ease the bearings, but the Civil Aviation officer said if I did the machine would be grounded. 
Well, in desperation I opened the engine up, and eased the bearings; to make it safe to fly. I found all the big end bearings partially seized, white metal having been pulled around the periphery of the bearings. Why it had not seized taking off I don't know. It should have by all the laws. 
Before closing the engine up again I trailed a magnet through the inside, and found a bit of loose split pin near the gears, and it was a piece from a main bearing lock, so I could not have left it there. My noble competitors had left it there by accident. 
It is an act of Providence that I and my passengers were not killed. We had flown up to Pino Creek, over the Kimberleys, and across the desert north of Wiluna with it in there. 
You can see that I had to do this job to make the machine safe, but now it is grounded, and my livelihood  is  taken away. 
The same departmental officer wants me to fly the machine to Perth again, and have Airlines once more open the engine up, to "certify it", but I do not feel like tempting Providence again. Life is sweet! 
Now I have given the best part of my life to this job, and have accomplished something which is of value to the country, and as a reward my livelihood is taken away. 
To carry on under these conditions is asking for a crack-up, in which some valuable lives may be lost, and if this is a fair interpretation of aviation laws, it is time they were altered; if it is not, then those responsible should be kicked so far out of the industry that they can never get into it again. 
I want to keep on flying, but you can see that under this present arrangement it is not safe. 
I am doing a very useful job, and it is only fair that if the department can supply a ground engineer in all categories for a firm like Airlines, that the same privilege should be granted to me. Or if the department are so keen on supervising every detail, that a competent officer be made available by the department, to check my work before it goes into service. 
They have refused me a licence to carry out a complete overhaul, under the same system as a dictation test is given to an undesirable alien. 
The job of a complete overhaul which I did was quitesafe, but the work done by Airlines engineer, who is licenced to do this work, has nearly brought me in close touch with my ancestors. 
We thought that after the  Kyecma  inquiry, there would be a change for the better in Civil Aviation administration, but the same old game goes on, and I am asking you to raise your voice in Parliament in no uncertain way, not so much for my personal benefit, but fora fair deal all round, and to so legislate, that an honest man can make a living. 
I have here a copy of an article published in the  Kalgoorlie Miner  of the 30th July, 1940, under the headings "Goldfields Air Services: Alleged Discrimination: Pilot Lewis's Complaint", which reads as follows: - 
Is the Minister for Air aware of the developments preceding the recent extension of the service of W.A. Airlines to Norseman? Is the service subsidised? If so, what explanation will now be advanced by the Department for Air in the light of the previous application by Goldfields Airways in May last for a subsidised service to Norseman, -which was refused by the department because of the " stringent war-time need for economy." The Minister for Air,  Mr. Fairbairn,  who left Melbourne on the 21st July by plane on a round-Australia tour to meet the trainees and men at various air stations, will leave Perth at dawn this morning on his flight to Adelaide. Unfortunately his itinerary does not embrace Kalgoorlie and he will only make a short stop at the aerodrome while his machine is refuelled. An answer to these questions is a matter of public concern on the gold-fields and the Minister should clear them up. 

 Mr. G. Lewis, of Goldfields Airways, stated yesterday - " During the last two months I have spent most of my time, and a considerable sum of money, in trying to give elementary training to R.A.A.F. reservists who are waiting to be called up. " It was in May that I approached the department, explaining that we had been doing some groundwork with a view to running a regular air-mail service from here to Norseman and then on to Perth. I received the following reply :  - 
Airlines (Western Australia) Limited then submitted an application and obtained the right to provide a service over the route mentioned by  Mr. Lewis  in his application. 
Yes, but  Mr. Lewis  was told definitely that itwould be of little use for him to apply for a licence to conduct a service without a subsidy. I should like the Minister to look into this matter, which is of some concern to the people of Western Australia. I do not wish to harass the Government or those in control of the Department of Civil Aviation; but if these statements be correct this man has not received justice from the department. I bring this request before the Minister representing the Minister for Air, and trust that he will take the matter up immediately with a view to seeing that justice is done to  Mr. Lewis. 
.- I enter a strong protest against the entry of New Zealand potatoes into the Australian market. During the week ended the 20th July, 30,000 sacks of Tasmanian potatoes were snipped to the Sydney market ; but we were subsequently advised by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner that shipments from Tasmania were to be reduced to 20,000 sacks weekly. Such weekly shipments are insufficient to relieve the Tasmanian growers of the stocks they are carrying; but in fairness to those in control I quote the following press statement : - 
I support the request made by  Senator Brand  concerning the colour patches worn by members of the Second Australian Imperial Force.- Representations have been made to me by a number of organizations in Queensland, particularly by members of units whose colour patches have been changed. I have given the matter a good deal of thought in an endeavour to see how the difficulty can be overcome, and it would appear that the suggestion made is worthy of the earnest consideration of the Government. At present there are only nine infantry battalions to a division, instead of twelve as previously, and there are only nine battalions in the three divisions that are not wearing inappropriate colours. 
Colour patches were the only distinguishing mark of units in the last war and I fail to see how they can carry on their traditions under different colour patches. I welcome the suggestion whereby the new units will he able to preserve the traditions established by the parent battalions in the last war. The Regimental Colours which were presented after the last war bore the colours of the different units, and if these regimental colours are not handed down from the parent battalions to the new battalions the latter will lose their identity. I hope that those who are responsible for this matter will consider sympathetically the scheme that has been put forward. In a case like this, a certain amount of sentiment is desirable. If the colours are retained in the way suggested by  Senator Brand  the new battalions will know that they are the descendants, so to speak, of battalions that took part in the 1914-18 war. 
The residents of Inglewood, a suburb of Perth, have asked me to ascertain the reason for delaying the erection of a post office there. I have already informed them that they know as much as I do about the matter, but once again I bring it to the notice of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. The scheme for the erection of a post office at that suburb has been shelved, although the money has been passed in the estimates. Serious inconvenience is being caused to the local residents. The former PostmasterGeneral  (Senator A. J. McLachlan)  informed me that his department would be prepared to buy a block of land for a post office at Inglewood. At that time I had the offer of one in Bayswater, and he told me that if he had known that he would not have concluded negotiations for the purchase of the site selected. I admit that there is an unofficial post office near the locality, but the two ladies who are in charge of it would, I think, get a serious shock if some one came along to buy 10s. worth of stamps. On the 7th May last, the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Thorby)  wrote to me as follows on this subject: - 
With reference to your recent remarks in Parliament concerning the desire that  the  department should proceed with the erection of a building on the site which was acquired for the purpose when circumstances permit, the position is that the department found it impracticable to include provision for this work in the current year's programme - 
This statement requires some explanation, because the money was passed on the estimates for the proposed post office -  the opinion being held that in the present circumstances, requirements are reasonably  met  by tlie non-official office at the corner of 9th Avenue and Beaufort Street, only 30 yards distant from  the site  acquired for a new building. 
I admit that a shop is on the site mentioned in the letter, but an unofficial post office there does not meet the growing requirements of the district. The Police Department does not erect premises in unimportant localities, and the fact that it has decided to build police quarters opposite the site selected for the new post office is, I think, ample justification, for the completion of the undertaking. The Postmaster-General's letter continues : - 
Perhaps I should explain that the department has been obliged to defer a large number of works in the various States which, under normal conditions, would be proceeded with. But with the limitations necessarily imposed on the total expenditure which may be incurred, there has been no alternative but to visualize the degree of necessity for each project in relation to the resources at the department's disposal, and consequently I am afraid there is little prospect of the new building being erected at Inglewood in the near future. 
That is the stereotyped reply which one receives from so many government departments. We are told that the matter is under consideration. I again appeal to the Postmaster-General' to instruct an officer to visit the locality and ascertain for himself the needs of the district. If that is done, I feel sure that he will report favourably and, as a result, the work will be proceeded with. 
I endorse the remarks of  Senator Lamp  concerning the serious injury done to  Tasmanian  potato-growers by the decision of the Government to  import,  specified quantities of potatoes from New Zealand. This proposal has been discussed on many occasions by deputations representing potato-growers to the Minister. . The producers in Tasmania are very much disturbed at the decision of the Government. I have been at a loss to understand what prompted the Ministry to take this action in view of the fact that those in the best position to know advised the Ministry that they believed that there were ample supplies in the Commonwealth to meet the requirements of the Australian market at a reasonable price. I do not say that they were in a better position to advise the Government than were its officials, but I do contend that they were in an equally good position, and their advice should have been heeded. Up to the present time, we have not had a satisfactory explanation of the Government's decision. The first information about it was contained in a ministerial statement that arrangements had been made with the New Zealand Government for the importation to Australia of 1,000 tons of potatoes a month for two months, to be followed later by the importation of 3,000 tons without any details as to the time of delivery. One could understand the desire of the Government to obtain adequate supplies of potatoes for the many military camps that have been established and for Government transports, and, in normal circumstances, the Government would be commended for watching the position in order to obtain supplies at a reasonable price. I point out, however, that the regulations previously promulgated prohibiting the importation of New Zealand potatoes contained a provision to meet such a situation as far as supplies for overseas shipping is concerned. So far as we have been able to learn, there is nothing to indicate a probable shortage of potatoes in the Commonwealth for some time to come. The late crops in Tasmania are heavy, and the approaching season promises to be early. Consequently, early supplies from that State will come on the market in competition with the New Zealand tubers, and the curtailment of deliveries will have a serious effect on Tasmanian growers. 1 got into communication with the Minister for Commerce immediately following the publication of the Minister's statement of the Government's proposed action, and I urged the Minister to delay action until further investigations had been made, in order to check the prospects  for the late crop. I suggest that if the Government persists in its scheme to import potatoes from New Zealand, those importations should be reserved by the Government for military camps and for transports. 
-I do not know ; but I received a reply stating that the importation of 5,000 tons of potatoes from New Zealand would only meet a very small part of the shortage that was bound to occur later. The Government's decision to import potatoes from New Zealand affects seriously the Tasmanian industry in which much capital and labour are involved, and I cannot help thinking that the Minister for Commerce has been badly advised. It is argued that New Zealand potatoes have not the same keeping qualities as the Tasmanian product, and that it is desirable to hold back the Tasmanian supplies until the New Zealand potatoes have been sold. If there is any force in that contention, what will happen to the remaining 3,000 tons to be imported in October and November? Obviously, the argument will not stand examination for a moment. Representations have been made to the Government over and over again not to take this action, which we are told has been considered desirable owing to the probable shortage and the consequent danger of extremely high prices in Australia. But the Prices Commissioner exercises some control over prices, and has already done so in respect of potatoes. It is reasonable to expect the Government to protect the Australian market for the Australian producers. Of course, we wish to be on friendly terms with other dominions, but our first duty should be to our own people. Merely because in an occasional year like this prices were high for a time, the Government should not disturb the market. Immediately an announcement was made of the Government's intention to import potatoes from New Zealand, deliveries of Tasmanian potatoes increased by 30 to 40 per cent. No fewer than 50,000 sacks were delivered in Devonport and Burnie in one week. The growers in Tasmania, who have been asked to hold back their supplies until the New Zealand potatoes have been placed on the market, have thus been deprived of the use of considerable areas of land for the next season's crop. Some farmers, with a desire to help the Commonwealth Government, gave an undertaking to grow flax, but the land on which potatoes are being held back may not be available for that purpose. The action of the Government, while serving no good purpose, has inflicted an injustice upon the Tasmanian potato-growers. The Tasmanian Potato Marketing Board has been called into conference with the Commonwealth authorities on more than one occasion. I understand that an advisory council met in Melbourne, and was asked to express its opinion regarding the importation of potatoes from New Zealand. It was not invited to say whether it considered the Government's action advisable or what its effect would be upon the industry, but it was asked to suggest the best means of disposing of the 5,000 tons of potatoes which the Government had decided to admit from New Zealand. 
I am speaking subject to correction; but that information was given by those who attended the conference, and I have no reason to suppose that they would deliberately misrepresent the position. I have discussed this matter with representatives of the Government on more than one occasion, and I have pointed out that the New Zealand potatoes could have been taken into store by the defence authorities without preventing the delivery of Tasmanian potatoes. I should like to know why the Government permitted the importation of New Zealand potatoes in view of the fact that it was strongly advised not to do so ? 
For nearly two months I have been trying to obtain a final decision from the Government with regard to the protection of the estates of interned aliens whose properties are scattered throughout the Commonwealth. In Western Australia many of these properties are deteriorating rapidly, and the position of Australian storekeepers to  whom the owners of the properties owe money for goods and services rendered is becoming acute. We have an Enemy Property Officer in Canberra, who was gazetted to the post a few days after the declaration of war; but I find that he has no jurisdiction over the estates of interned aliens. This appears to be a matter for the defence authorities, who place these aliens in internment camps. I realize that this action is necessary under war conditions, but consideration should also be given to the position of country storekeepers and others who have assisted these aliens, most of whom are primary producers, to remain on their properties and develop them. A large proportion of the tomato crops grown in the Geraldton area is produced by Italians, and in the south-western section of the State from 60 to 75 per cent, of the potatoes is grown by Italians. A similar position obtains in all of the little hamlets of the goldfields and elsewhere. Since these men have 'been taken from their properties their crops are deteriorating, and the potato crop expected about October and November, much of which is usually exported to the eastern States, will be ruined unless labour is engaged to look after the properties during the absence of the internees. I have requested the Defence Department to appoint immediately a curator of internees' estates. Such an officer will have a full-time job to do for the duration of the war, and, until these aliens can be repatriated to their blocks, he should be able to obtain the assistance of the State agricultural departments in saving the greater portion of their crops. I hope that the matter will be taken up without further delay. Many of these Italian primary producers have been known to me. and they have no more time for Benito Mussolini than I have. They will eventually return to their homes and properties, and again become good Australian citizens. I should not like to see them returning to ruined holdings. No doubt a similar position arises in connexion with such properties in the other States. I suggest that the best way to deal with the matter is to appoint a Curator of Internees' Estates, who could enlist the asistance of State agricultural departments. 
In his statement regarding the Government's war-time agricultural policy, the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  referred to the importance of the flax industry. I have been endeavouring to obtain definite information from the Government as to the price the farmers will receive for the flax grown by them, and the price the Government will get from the British authorities. A question asked by me on this subject the week before last was evaded by the Minister to whom I directed it. In his statement in the House of Representatives the Minister for Commerce said - 
The Government developed the Australian industry from 1.200 acres to 8,000 acres a few months ago, and is now organizing the planting of another 13,000 acres with seed supplied by the British Government. Fibre and tow to be produced from flax grown on the latter area will be sold to the United Kingdom Government at satisfactory prices already arranged. 
The Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator McBride)  mentioned various prices from £90 to £180 a ton. I assumed that £90 was to be the price of tow, and that £180 was to be the price of fine fibre.  Senator Gibson  referred to the price paid for flax in various parts of the world, and endeavoured to convince the Senate that I was entirely wrong in the brief remarks that I made.  Senator Gibson  said that growers in Ireland were receiving £4 for flax straw after the seed had been extracted. On the contrary, Irish growers, who possess the necessary plant to process their own flax, are receiving approximately £20 a ton for flax straw. How does that compare with the price offered to Australian growers, which, I understand, is on the pre-war basis of £5 a ton In view of the fact that since the outbreak of war flax prices have increased by over 100 per cent, and the Australian grower's costs of production, including the cost of fertilizer, have greatly increased, the local grower should not be expected to accept pre-war prices. In order to show how far astray was  Senator Gibson  on this subject, I take the following extract from the  Farmers' Gazette,  Dublin, of the 25th May, last - 
The invasion of Belgium has involved the linen trade in a situation of the utmost gravity. It is now practically certain that any further supplies of flax from Europe will be negligible, and the industry which has large contracts on hands for supplies will have to rely mainly on home-grown flax. 
The Flax Production Committee has induced the Ministry of Supply to create a market for dried green flax straw, thus clearing the way for farmers who either had not the experience or the facilities for retting. 
The offer of a guaranteed price of £10 per ton for harvested green straw has been announced to enable growers to add substantially to the acreage already sown, especially where, owing to bad weather, farmers have missed their sowings of oats and barley. 
Farmers responding to this urgent call have been requested to get in touch immediately with the Flax Production Committee, The King's Hall, Belfast. 
Whilst Irish farmers are guaranteed £10 a ton for green straw, Australian growers are asked to produce at a maximum price of £5 a ton. 
After allowing for freight, the difference between British prices and Australian prices is altogether too great. The Minister himself stated that the British Government had offered £180 for this line of fibre, and exchange would increase that figure to over £200. I take it that his figures were in sterling. 
About 10 tons of ordinary flax is required to produce one ton of extra fine live fibre. In addition, there would be the seed, and a certain amount of chaff which would be suitable for stock feed, as well as a certain amount of tow which is not so valuable. In order to show that the prices offered to Australian growers are very much below those prevailing overseas, I take the following extract from a British paper,  The Farmers' Weekly - 
Full details of the Government's plans to expand the home flax industry were revealed this week by the Ministry of Agriculture. 
Large quantities of the " green " fibre are required by the defence services, and to meet the demand it is expected that the area devoted to flax-growing will be increased next year from 4,000 to 16,000 acres. 
Farmers in at least 15 English counties will take part in the campaign and 2,000 acres will be devoted to the crop in Scotland. 
The plan has the full backing of the Government. Factories are being expanded, new processing plants are being installed with Government aid, and machinery is to be provided for harvesting the crop. 
There will be three forms of contract, two of them on the lines of those already in operation. An average yield of two and a quarter tons to the acre is expected, and on the two main contracts the crop should return a price of about £8 per ton to the grower. 
On the basis of 2¼ tons of flax to the acre, at £8 a ton,the return to flax-growers overseas under the British plan amounts to approximately £20 an acre, whereas the maximum return which the Australian grower will be likely to receive in  a  good season, is approximately £10. Obviously, freight would not account for any substantial portion of the difference between these prices. My complaint is that the Australian grower is being asked to produce flax to-day at the price at which we were producing it prior to the outbreak of war. 
I remind the Minister that his colleague,  Senator Gibson,  declared emphatically that flaxgrowing was not a new industry in Australia, for we had been producing flax for the last 30 years. I should be very much surprised to learn that flax is not being grown in Victoria. Until the British Government recently made available 400 tons of seed Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited, which I should not be surprised to hear is a subsidiary of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, enjoyed a monopoly in supplying seed to Australian growers. I understand that the Government does not contemplate processing the flax, but intends to ship it partly processed to Great Britain, where it will be refined. Such a policy is in line with the old Premiers plan, which laid it down that we should export only primary products' to Great Britain. Employment could be given to thousands of men in this country through the development of the  flax  industry. Nothing prevents us from processing the flax, and supplying the fine line fibre which the British market requires. If this were done, the industry would flourish in this country. In the very near future the Government will be obliged to let the farmers know definitely where they stand. The farmers have signed  a  contract with the Government to plant a certain acreage, but doubt has arisen as to whether the Government will honour its part of the contract, because negotiations with Flax Fibres Proprietary Limited have ceased. I repeat that the Australian grower is entitled to much higher prices in view of the great increase of prices overseas above pre-war levels. If the Government does not feel inclined to give to the Australian grower the full benefit of that increase of price, it should at least give to them an increase of 50 per cent, above pre-war prices. Even then it would show a handsome profit on the transaction. 
Honorable senators will recall that a few weeks ago I presented  a  petition to this chamber from the Australian Women's Non-party Association, dealing with the financing of the war. That petition was turned down very unceremoniously, the Opposition's attempt to have it discussed being defeated. Over the week-end I happened to contact some of the people who signed that petition, and they expressed their disgust at the attitude adopted by the Senate. Although that petition was signed by only 2,300 people, it represented the views of hundreds of thousands of Australians. Indeed, I, myself, secured 1,200 of the signatures in Hobart. Democratic government is defined as, "government of the people by the people for the people ". In a democratic country, the people are supposed to get what they want. Will any honorable senator opposite say that the Australian people are getting what they want? Do we want war? No; but we are getting it. Do we want poverty in themidst of plenty? Do we want malnutrition and slums? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! I remind the honorable senator that he dealt with this subject at great length this afternoon. 
Honorable senators opposite took up the attitude that it would be absurd for the Senate to pay heed to a petition which was signed by a comparatively small number of people. I point out that the request made in the petition which I presented has been embodied in resolutions passed in three State parliaments - the parliament  of 
South Australia, where the United Australia party is in power, and the parliaments of Tasmania and Western Australia. Consequently, that petition should not have been rejected on the ground that it represented the views of only a few people. Honorable senators are sent to Parliament to represent the interests of the electors. The rights of the electors were thrown on one side in a cavalier fashion last week; the wishes of the people were flouted. I hope that the Government will obtain its reward for that action at the polling booths. 
I welcome the suggestion made by  Senator Brand  regarding the colour patches used by the various divisions of the Australian Imperial Force. I assure the honorable gentleman that it was not the desire of the department to extinguish the identities of the old battalions which fought nobly in the last war. As  Senator Cooper  stated, a division to-day consists of nine battalions, instead of twelve battalions, as was the case during the last war. That means that the grouping is changed entirely. Nevertheless, the suggestion made by  Senator Brand  will be considered, and I am sure that it will be adopted if it is practicable to do so. 

 Senator Lamp, in referring to the importation of New Zealand potatoes, pitted his information against the information available from various sources to the Commonwealth Government.  Senator Hays  also referred to that subject and spoke particularly of the way in which arrangements were made between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New Zealand for the importation of New Zealand potatoes. I should like to correct some of his statements. As honorable senators will recall, the New Zealand Minister for Supply,  Mr. Sullivan,  and other departmental officials visited Australia recently. They came here in order to investigate the possibility of purchasing certain commodities in this country which are vital to New Zealand. While they were in Australia, they raised a subject which is not unknown to honorable senators; they said that, as New Zealand purchased a great variety of Australian commodities, a certain amount of ill feeling existed in the dominion at the refusal of the Commonwealth Government to permit the importation of New Zealand potatoes, one of the few products exported by that country which are sometimes in demand in Australia. As the result of the representations made by the delegation, the Commonwealth Government made a survey in order to estimate Australia's potato production for this year. According to the most reliable information that the Government could obtain, it appeared that the production would be from 50,000 to 60,000 tons below the normal crop. 
Yes. After the survey was made, representatives of the potato-growing industry were invited to confer with representatives of the Commonwealth Government at Melbourne on the subject of the importation of New Zealand potatoes. The  chairman  of the Potato Marketing Board of Tasmania was among the Tasmanian representatives at that conference. After a thorough examination of the information that had been supplied, the New Zealand representatives were asked what quantity of potatoes they could undertake to make available to Australia, should there be a demand here for imported potatoes. At first,  Mr. Pickole  said that he thought that New Zealand would have a surplus of about 15,000 tons. After making further inquiries, however, he intimated that the largest quantity he could guarantee was 5,000 tons. At that stage, the Government's representatives consulted the representatives of the potato-growing industry and asked whether, in view of the conditions that prevailed, they would be agreeable to the making of an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of New Zealand for the purchase of 5,000 tons of New Zealand potatoes. Those representatives were agreeable to the proposition. I stress the fact that the Commonwealth Government did not enter into any contract until the representatives of the Australian potato-growers approved of the proposal. I believe that I am right in saying also that the allocation of imports which was decided upon was regarded as satisfactory by those representatives. It was agreed that 1,000 tons of New Zealand potatoes be imported in each of the months of July, August and September and that the balance of 2,000 tons be imported according to the capacity of the Sydney market to absorb them. 
I am endeavouring to outline precisely the position that obtained at that time. The Commonwealth Government did not act until it had the support of the representatives of' the potato-growing industry. 
I shall not deal with hypothetical cases. What I have said is the truth. 
I am not doing anything of the sort; I am giving a faithful account of what happened. 
I have told the pertinent facts of the story. I shall endeavour to answer any other question that" the honorable senator may ask. I have no connexion with the price fixing authority and cannot reply in detail to the arguments relating to the price of potatoes. Owing to seasonal conditions and for other reasons, of which honorable senators probably know more than I do, this year's crop of Tasmanian potatoes reached the market earlier than usual. That may have been due to fear of the effect that the relatively small importation of New Zealand potatoes would have on the Sydney market. 
But I point out that the average annual consumption of potatoes in Australia exceeds 340,000 tons; the estimated deficiency this year was more than 50,000 tons. 
I admit that, but taking into consideration the price ruling to-day, the consumption this year will be over 300,000 tons, if that quantity is available. At any rate, some factor caused a rush of Tasmanian potatoes onto the Sydney market. The quantity received was above the normal supply and too great to be absorbed with the price at its present level, which honorable senators apparently agree to be fair to growers and consumers alike. In order to see that the market would be fed so that the price would be kept at a reasonable level, the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland, went to Tasmania and attempted to calm the fears of the people who believed that there were greater quantities of potatoes in Australia than the Commonwealth Government estimated. He pointed out that if they were allowed to flood the Sydney market at this time, there would be a temporary glut, the price would fall, and before the end of this year there would be an acute scarcity and prices would reach famine height. 
That may be the case; I shall not argue upon that point. I shall only give to the Senate the information which the Commonwealth Government possesses; it is obtained from sources which the Government regards as the most reliable available. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald raised the subject of the maintenance of properties of internees. That matter is receiving consideration from the Government at the present time, and I hope that the Government will soon be able to make a decision upon it. But I am impelled to discount one of the statements made by the honorable senator. The honorable gentleman said that many of the interned Italians have as little liking for Mussolini as he has. The only inference to be drawn from that is that those Italians have been wrongfully interned. I refute that suggestion. The department is particularly careful to make a thorough investigation before interning anybody. Naturalized Italians have full rights of appeal even after they have been interned. I deny that the department has wrongfully interned any alien in Australia. I reassure the Senate that the problem of the maintenance of alien property is being dealt with and I hope that the Government will announce its policy on the subject before long. 
SenatorFOLL (Queensland - Minister for the Interior) [9.58].  -  I shall bring the remarks made by  Senator Aylett  in relation to the flax industry to the notice of the Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  who is the responsible Minister. 
I shall ensure that the statements made by  Senator Cunningham  in connexion with Goldfields Airways are brought to the notice of the Minister for Air. In view of the serious statements that the honorable senator quoted, the subject is worthy of a very searching inquiry. The suggestion that sabotage may have been practised on the aeroplane by a competitor company by placing whitemetal and a cotter pin in the engine and that the lives of  Mr. Lewis  and a passenger . were endangered is so serious that I shall ask the Minister for Air to arrange for a thorough inquiry into the matter. 
 in reply  - I wish to make a brief reference to the points raised by  Senator Herbert  Hays with respect to the price of potatoes. According to the information received to-day, there may possibly be a shortage. When Professor Copland was in Tasmania he was advised that the crop would not realize the quantity estimated ; but I believe that the difficulty will be overcome by feeding the Sydney market regularly, and by preventing large Tasmanian consignments from arriving simultaneously with shipments from New Zealand. I urge honorable senators not to suggest that the price should be forced down below the cost of production. 
I repeat for the benefit of those with some commercial intelligence that full inquiries have been rondo throughout the Commonwealth, and that the Government is most anxious that ill-informed honorable senators shall not suggest a flooding of the market which can only result in prices being forced down. The Government is satisfied that the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner will fix a reasonable price, and that with organized distribution the market will not be affectedunduly. I am convinced that there will not be any glut and that reasonable prices will be obtained. 
I am sure that those who do not wish to make political capital out of this matter will appreciate the position. 
Order! 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Minister for the Interior seen the report appearing in the Sydney press to the effect that the Minister for Works in New South Wales,  Mr. Martin,  has declared that the Commonwealth and State governments have been embarrassed and delayed by the non-arrival of the British engineer who is to supervise the Sydney graving dock? Will the Minister state whether it is correct that the engineer is ten days' overdue and whether his non-arrival delayed decisions in regard to necessary resumptions? 
-Itis not the province of State Ministers to issue statements with regard to defence works, as the various State authorities merely carry these out as agents or contractors for the Commonwealth Government. I have already been in touch with the Minister for Works in New South Wales, and he has assured me that he did not make any statement that the State and Federal governments had been delayed and embarrassed by the non-arrival of the British engineer who is to supervise the construction of the Sydney graving dock. 
The facts are : First, the British engineer,  Major Thorne,  is not due to arrive in Australia until the second week in September. This was the original date scheduled for his arrival, and he has not been delayed. Secondly, the fact that the engineer is not in Australia has not in any way delayed negotiations in connexion with resumptions. This is a matter which does not come within the engineer's province. Three properties have already been acquired, and it is anticipated that only small portions of ten other properties will be required. Thirdly, these resumptions are not required directly to make room for the dock, but solely for access purposes. In regard to the work generally, I have to-day received advice from the consulting engineers,  Sir Alexander  Gibb and Partners, that plans and particulars sufficient to enable the commencement of the first section of the scheme have been completed. This section comprises acres of reclamation, and the plans should arrive in Sydney early in September, at about the same time as  Major Thorne.  Meanwhile, the work is being pushed on with all possible speed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister received from the Primary Producers Association of Western Australia claims for the payment of compensation to certain barley-growers for the value of certain barley of superior quality which was compulsorily acquired bythe Government? 
Was this barley acquired  by  the Government under the provisions of section 51,sub- section  (xxxi.),  of the Constitution? 
If so, is it the intention of the Government to pay the individual growers the full value of the barley produced by them? 
If not, why not? 
If the barley was not acquired under the provisions of section 51, sub-section (xxxi.), of the Constitution, will the Minister state under what authority it was taken by the Government? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
It is not the practice of the Government to answer legal questions in the House. 
The compensation payable to growers for barley acquired will be determined after consideration of the recommendation of the Australian Barley Board. 
See answer to No. 3. 
See answer to No. 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services,  upon notice - 
With reference to national insurance and the claims of friendly societies for reimbursement of expenditure incurred by them - 
Have claims been refused on the ground that if those of one society are met the Government will have to meet larger claims from others? If so, is it not more a question of whether the money expended by societies was so spent in good faith, on the assumption that the scheme would come into full operation ? 
Were not societies entitled to expect the repayment of such expenditure, cither from the first year's allowance or from subsequent years, and is it not a fact that because the scheme was shelved the societies were in consequence unable to recover from such subsequent years' operations? 
Does the Minister admit the following to be a correct statement of the position :  - 
That all approved societies entered into the campaign for the enrolment of national insurance members in good faith. 
That societies were not told they should not advertise or exert every possible energy in the enrolment of persons covered by the scheme, but were actually encouraged from the start, by the competitive character given to the scheme, to use every endeavour to obtain as great a number of enrolments as possible. 
That long before the order to cease operations was given, harmful expressions of doubt as to the ultimate fruition of the scheme were expressed by Ministers and others on many occasions, thus causing an immediate reduction of the volume of enrolments and creating a considerable increase of the cost per head of enrolment? 
Is it a fact that the expenditure by societies in excess of 6s. per member is, in the case of friendly societies, being carried by the parent society, and as the expenditure is not legally deductible from sick and funeral funds, it must, in consequence, be carried by the management fund of the societies? 
Is it not a fact that, as a general rule, the management fund is barely sufficient to administer the society and that in the case of societies not backed by a parent society, the expenditure will have to be borne by individuals ? 
The Minister for 
Social Services has supplied the following answers :  - 
Every claim has been dealt with on its merits having regard to the allowable maximum expenditure. See answer to question No. 2. 
Societies were informed in writing on the 27th October, 1938, that the maximum amount which would be allowed for administration expenditure in 1939 was 5s. per enrolled member plus1s. per member for enrolment expenses. The total sum of 6s. per member was intended to cover also the cost of distribution and collection of contribution cards, the record and payment of sick benefit, the keeping of proper accounts and preparation of returns, as well as sick visitation and other duties. Very little of this work became necessary and as a consequence the maximum payment promised by the commission was a most liberal sum. About half of the approved societies expended less than 3s. 6d. per member, and all but about ten societies less than 6s. per member. 3. (a) Yes. 
Membership of societies was compulsory and many societies did not advertise at all. The commission did not express any opinion on the question of advertising by societiesas it did not wish to interfere in their internal administration. It did, however, fix a limit to the expenditure which would be reimbursed (see answer to question No. 2). 
I am unable to say whether this influence operated. 
It is not known who is carrying the expenditure not reimbursed, but it is felt that whoever found the money for advertising must have been aware of the limitation which had been placed on administration expenditure. 
See answer to question No. 4. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What are the terms of the arrangement made by the Australian Wheat Board for the insurance of wheat acquired under the Wheat Acquisition Regulations (National Security Act) on (a) wheat shipped abroad and (b) wheat now held in Australia? 
What risks are insured against in the case of (a) and (b) ? 
With what company or companies is such insurance effected? 
What is the premium per cent. paidin each case? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What arc the names of the agents responsible for the handling and sale of wheat on behalf of the Wheat Marketing Board! 
What is the rate of commission paid to such agents, and what is the total sum which has been paid to each, since the establishment of the Wheat Board? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government appointed any additional special Commonwealth War-time Authorities since the 10th April, when a list of such authorities and the members thereof was supplied to members of the Senate? 
If so, what authorities are they, what are their functions, and what are the names of the members thereof? 
The information is being obtained, and will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
What fee or salary is being paid to each chairman and member of each special Commonwealth War-time Authority who has been appointed since September, 1939? 
The information is being obtained, and will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that scrap metal now being collected in Australia for war purposes is not, in any part, being shipped to Japan? 
In view of the announced shortage of raw metal for our steel industries will the Minister give some information as to how this shortage has been brought about? 
Will the Minister give the exact figures as to the export of scrap metal and pig iron from Australia to Japan during the last twelve months? 
The replies to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
and 2. The information is being obtained. 
In view of the present international situation it is not the practice to make available for general information particulars of goods exported to specific countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
How much land and how many buildings in the Commonwealth have been purchased or rented from the owners by the Government since September, 1939? 
How much was paid as purchase money or is being paid as rent in each instance? 
What is the total amount paid as purchase money or being paid annually as rent in each State? 
What has been the procedure which has been adopted in fixing the amounts paid as purchase money or being paid as rent? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What was the amount expended in each State for the manufacture of armaments and munitions for the financial year ending the 30th June, 1940? 
What ir the amount contemplated by the Government to be spent in each State for the manufacture of armaments and munitions for the year ending the 30th June, 1941? 
The information desired by the honorable senator will be made available to him as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in the recent promotion of thirteen members on the staff of the allotment section of the Pay Corps, located in Craig's Buildings, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, the claims of returned soldiers were ignored, in favour of non-returned soldiers eligible for active service? 
If that be so, will he inquire as to the reason why the  Govenment's  policy of preference to returned soldiers has not been given effect? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
No. Of the thirteen promotions made, five N.C.O.'s are returned soldiers, two are personnel who had been discharged from the Australian Imperial Force, and the remainder are members who had been classed as unfit for active service. 
The policy of preference to returned soldiers is adhered to in connexion with appointments to the Pay Corps. The selection of personnel for subsequent promotion is determined by their ability to perform the work required, and the claims of returned soldier members of the corps are not overlooked in this connexion. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The hill provides for the payment of bounty on raw cotton produced during the years 1941 to 1945 inclusive. The basic rates of bounty for each successive year will be 43/4d.,41/2d.,41/4d., 4d. and 31/2d. per lb., respectively, when the Liverpool spot price of American middling raw cotton is 6d. perlb. As the Liverpool price varies up or down from 6d. per lb., each basic rate of bounty will be reduced or increased by an equivalent amount, except that in no circumstances will the bounty be allowed to exceed 51/2d. per lb. The bill also provides that the basic rate of bounty, and therefore all adjustments thereof in accordance with fluctuations in the Liverpool price, will be reduced at any time to the extent that any Customs duty may be imposed on imported raw cotton. As it is possible that the Liverpool Cotton Exchange may close during the war, the bill enables the Minister to use the New York spot price of American middling raw cotton and other factors, as a basis on which to determine an equivalent Liverpool price, so that Australian cotton-growers may receive equitable rates of bounty. An annual sum of £150,000 will be provided from Consolidated Revenue to pay the bounty, and, as usual, the unexpended balance in any year will, in addition to the £150,000 provided for that year, be available for the bounty in any future year under the act. 
Other provisions in the bill merely give usual powers which are essential to the efficient administration of the bounty and the safeguarding of the interests of the Commonwealth. Existing raw cotton bounty legislation expires on the 30th November next with the completion of the harvesting and ginning of the 1940 cotton crop in Queensland. Early adoption by Parliament of the present bill is essential, in view of the great need to increase substantially local cotton production for war-time needs. These needs apply particularly to summer uniforms and various items of equipment including tents, canvas, &amp;c, for all the fighting services, and the manufacture of certain high explosives. Australia's raw cotton requirements have advanced from 35,000 bales for the year ended on the 30th June, 1940, to at least 65,000 bales for the coming year. The 1940 Queensland crop may produce only 8,000 bales. Should production remain at 8,000 bales, much of thebalance£ 57,000 bales will have to be imported from the United States of America, thus involving a serious drain upon the Empire's sterling funds in that country. Largelyincreased production of raw cotton in Australia would permit of a considerable reduction of American imports, as both countries produce similar types of raw cotton. Hence, more of our foreign exchange resources would be available for the purchase of aeroplanes, machine tools, and other American commodities of great importance to Australia's war effort. 
A marked expansion of local cotton production will require considerable organization by the Queensland Government and the Queensland Cotton Board, and also much preparatory work by present and prospective cotton-growers in clearing many thousands of acres in lighttimbered country and preparing the land for planting by next October. This expensive work could not very well be undertaken without the security assured to growers by Parliament's early approval of the bill. The present legislation arises mainly from an exhaustive  investigation of the industry made by the Tariff Board, the results of which are contained in its report of the 3rd April, 1940. In that report the Tariff Board drew attention to various unsatisfactory phases of the Queensland cotton industry which had combined to cause the average yield an acre to fall to low levels, now below the yields in most other countries, especially those in which irrigation is practised. A few weeks ago, the Government was able to complete negotiations with the Queensland Government in regard to satisfactory measures to cope with the various problems reported by the Tariff Board. These problems are mentioned in the definite undertakings given in writing by the Queensland Government, that its plans for improving the efficiency of the cotton-growing industry will preeminently and almost exclusively provide for: - 
The quickest possible conversion of cotton production from dry farming to irrigation by the most economic means for each selected locality; 
A special campaign by enough thoroughly-qualified men to instruct all farmers personally and quickly as to the absolute need for practising correct rotations and other essential cultural methods; such campaign to be followed up persistently with the object of ensuring that the best practices shall be adopted by the bulk of the farmers in the shortest possible time. This campaign will include the circulation of suitable literature ; 
A substantial increase of the quality and number of the personnel of the Cotton Research Section, for the specific purpose of accelerating vital scientific work on plant-breeding, pests, diseases, soils, fertilizers, cultural practices, and especially the new problems that are sure to be encountered with production under irrigation; 
Anything related to these measures. 
The Queensland Government has also agreed to ensure complete co-operation between its Department of Agriculture, the Queensland Cotton Board, cottonspinners, and the Department of Trade and Customs, on all relevant matters, particularly in regard to the supply at all times of the types of raw cotton most suitable for use by Australian manufacturers. A fully-representative committee will soon be appointed to advise both Governments on these matters. As evidence of the Queensland Government's recognition of the economic burden and the grave risk of continuing to produce raw cotton in Australia wholly under dry farming conditions, and of its good faith in relation to the undertakings to. which I have referred, I should point out that those undertakings, when fully implemented, will cost at least £650,000. Moreover, during the financial year 1939-1940 the Queensland Government provided £65,126 for loans to cotton farmers and scientific research, including £21,500 for irrigation works and experiments, and will provide a much larger sum for similar work during 1940-41. 
The Premier of Queensland has signified his Government's intention to proceed with plans for the exploitation of underground water supplies, the provision of finance for individual pumping schemes, and the construction of an additional irrigation weir on the Dawson River north of the town of Theodore. The Queensland Government has already inaugurated a scheme to ensure the adoption by cotton farmers of the best cultural methods, and the personnel of the Queensland Cotton Research Station is now being augmented for the specific purpose of facilitating work on plant breeding and the control of pests. A special soils officer from the Waite Institute at Adelaide is actively engaged in the Callide and Theodore areas in the location of soils most suitable for cotton production. The Commonwealth Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will assist in locating better rainfall areas. In view of these arrangements the Government has brought down the present bill which provides for gradually reducing rates of bounty during the next five years. The basic rate for the first year, 1941, will be 43/4d. per lb., as against the present basic rate of41/4d. per lb. The increase of11/2d. per lb. above the basic rate of31/4d. per lb., recommended by the Tariff Board before the war, is considered essential - partly to cover increases of various items of production costs due to the war, and to assist in the installation by growers of pumps, pipes or channels, and other equipment for irrigation. The chief reason for the higher bounty is, however, to encourage a marked increase of production by making the industry reasonably attractive to farmers. 
After 1941, the basic bounty will fall by id. per lb. each year until 1945, when the basic bounty will be ½d. per lb. less than for the 1944 season. These reductions of bounty are designed to meet the gradually lower costs of production which must flow from improved cultural practices, more intensive scientific research, and from the steadily increasing degree of production under irrigation, which the Queensland Government has undertaken to bring into effect. 
It should be noted that the basic rates of bounty just mentioned by me are related to a Liverpool price of 6d. per lb., and that they vary up or down as the Liverpool price varies down or up from 6d. per lb. Since the war began, the Liverpool price has always been higher than 6'd. per lb., and is now 8.19d. per lb. If the last-named Liverpool price should be maintained throughout the 1941 period of production, the basic rate of bounty for that year of 4Jd. per lb. would produce an actual payable rate of 2.56d. per lb., which would cover a total production of raw cotton, under the annual appropriation of £150,000, of 28,615 bales. This quantity is 11,000 bales more than Australia's record output in 1934. If the 1941 production should be less than 28,615 hales, the corresponding saving in bounty would be carried forward to any future year in addition to the regular provision of £150,000 for that year. Moreover, a large increase of production will reduce ginning costs, and thus further benefit cotton-growers. 
In the cotton-growing industry there ure now approximately 2,700 growers, 1,000 field workers, and 2,000 cotton pickers. The ginneries employ 170 persons, the total number directly employed thus being 5,870. Advices just to hand from Queensland indicate that possibly 80,000 acres will be planted to cotton in Queensland for next year's crop, as against only 38,000 acres for the 1940 season. If this estimate should be realized cotton-growers will have rendered good service to the Commonwealth in connexion with its war effort. 
It is worth while remembering that the cotton industry in all its phases is the largest individual industry in the world and that, under conditions of the highest efficiency, this industry in both primary and secondary phases has every chance of becoming one of the largest in the Commonwealth. When cotton-growing has been converted almost wholly to production under irrigation, the cost of producing raw cotton in Australia will become substantially lower than it has ever been, and this will enable the industry to be continued on a much larger scale at lower rates of bounty - alternatively, with relatively small tariff protection. Incidentally, a great expansion of cottongrowing will create opportunities for other farmers who may, through stress of war or shrinkage of exports of their present products, find it necessary  '-to  seek another vocation. 
Finally, the .bill constitutes a cooperative effort by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments to raise the cotton-growing industry to a level of efficiency not nearly approached previously in this country. Both Governments are sharing the necessary expenditure to this end. If this joint policy succeeds - and there is no reason why it should not do so - the total number of farmers and workers now engaged in the industry will be greatly increased, and Australia will be far less reliant upon overseas sources of supply than at present. I strongly commend the bill to the Senate. 
.  -  I also commend this bill to the Senate. I am fully in accord with the principles embodied in it. The measure represents a pleasing contrast to the previous attitude of this Government. When the Government decided, a year or two ago, to discontinue the cotton bounty this important primary industry was threatened with extinction, because without a bounty the growing of cotton would not have been a payable proposition. I am very pleased, therefore, that the Government has seen fit to bring down this bill. 
At times it is very difficult to understand just what is in the mind of the Government. The cotton-growers of Queensland found it hard to understand what was intended. However, I do not wish to engage in recriminations regarding things done or left undone in the past. I believe that the Government is adopting a wise course in continuing the. bounty, and so encouraging the development of this industry, which is of vital importance to Australia. At present our primary industries are faced with serious marketing problems, and it is gratifying to know that, in connexion with the cotton industry at least, no such problems have arisen, and are npt likely to arise in the near future. Undoubtedly the cotton industry itself must accept a share of the responsibility for failures in the past, but, as I have said, in years gone by the attitude of  the  Commonwealth Government retarded rather' than helped the expansion of cotton-growing. 
I believe that there is now a better understanding between the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments - an understanding which should have been arrived at . a long time ago. No doubt the exigencies of war have promoted this closer relationship, but, even in time of peace, agreement on a progressive policy would have been wise. The better understanding now reached will, I hope, result in the continuance of the cottongrowing industry under improved conditions which will safeguard the interests of the people engaged in it. I am confident that the Queensland Government will faithfully discharge all of its obligations. Large expenditure will be involved, but I am satisfied that the results will justify it. Improved methods of cultivation and the use of irrigation and fertilizers can greatly improve production.. 
The human being is a fairly good cotton-picker, but, perhaps, some day science will alter the entire complexion of this industry. 
The final paragraph of the Minister's second-reading speech is a true statement of the position. He said- 
Finally, the bill constitutes a co-operative effort by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments to raise the cotton-growing industry to a level of efficiency not nearly approached previously in this country. Both Governments are sharing the necessary expenditure to this end. If this joint policy succeeds - and there is no reason why it should not do so - the total number of farmers and workers now engaged in the industry will be greatly increased, and Australia will be far less reliant upon overseas sources of supply than at present. 
That paragraph effectively sums up all that can be said about the measure. There can be no doubt about the importance of developing the primary industries of this country. The only possible argument that could be used against giving assistance to industries such as this is that the people might more profitably be employed on more essential work. Particularly in Queensland, most primary industries have reached saturation point so far as production is concerned. At present they are largely dependent upon overseas markets, and restricted shipping space is presenting a very serious problem. It is gratifying to know that that problem does not arise in connexion with cotton. 
I am confident that the Senate will pass this measure, and I am sorry that its introduction has been so long delayed, because in this country it is necessary to plan in times of peace just as in times of war. I have heard honorable senators opposite say repeatedly that it is primarily the duty of the States and not of the Commonwealth to assist industries of this kind. However, owing largely to war conditions, the necessity for planning our economy is being forcefully brought home to the Government. When I hear the remark, "Oh, another bounty for some industry I reply that in a country such as Australia governments are obliged to help in this way not only primary industries, but also secondary industries. By means of this assistance the cotton industry will be enabled to establish itself on a firm foundation. When it was first suggested that governments should assist in the development of other industries in Queensland, opponents of such a policy declared that it was uneconomic to aid any industry which could not stand on its  own feet right from the start. However, owing to the rapid advance of agricultural science, most of those industries subsequently became economic. Our experience shows that an industry which it may be uneconomical to establish to-day will very likely soon become self-reliant. After all, it is only by experience that we can hope to develop industries in this country. Indeed, this is our greatest problem.. We must have a much greater population, but we can only sustain more people by the development of industries. 
Although the importance of the cotton industry is emphasized during war, we cannot overlook its value in time of peace. Whether we be at war or not, we must develop the resources of Australia, and it is the duty of governments to give to industries the assistance deemed to be essential to their development. I admit that this Government, generally speaking, has dealt considerately with primary industry throughout Australia. This has been the case particularly during the last two years, because its supporters now seem to be more prepared to listen to proposals which hitherto were anathema to them. To-day, for instance, the Government realizes that industry as a whole must be organized on a national basis. It realizes that the successful marketing of our primary products is the concern of the national Government, rather than the responsibility of a few individuals. When I say that government assistance to industry is often essential, I do not speak merely of assistance in the form of bounties, or doles; I mean financial assistance generally. When industries are in need of financial aid, they should not be allowed to fall under the control of a few individuals on whom they would be obliged to rely if governments remained unsympathetic. 
I strongly support the proposals contained in this measure. As I said before, however, the apathy of this Government has been largely responsible for the tardy development of the cotton industry up to date, particularly when for so long it remained deaf to the growers' requests for irrigation facilities and for the encouragement of more scientific methods in the industry. With the joint assistance of the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments, I am sure that the cotton industry will now be enabled to develop rapidly and efficiently, and will eventually become a great asset to this country. I trust that the measure will receive the unanimous support of honorable senators. 
 The Country party wholeheartedly supports this measure. I agree with  Senator Courtice  that, under modern conditions, governments must exercise a paternal supervision over industries in matters which at first glance, perhaps, appear to be primarily the concern of the States. This is particularly so in respect of industries which are vital to the prosperity of the nation as a whole, such as the wheat industry, in whose behalf requests for assistance so often come before this Parliament. In.  Senator Courtice's  remarks, I sense an outlook which leads me to believe that he should be a member of the Country party. 
 I support the bill. I. point out that the Kimberley district in Western Australia is very suitable for cotton production. Indeed, just after the last war, the Western Australian Government assisted in an attempt to settle a number of returned soldiers in this industry in the north-west portion of the State. I admit that the venture was considered too hurriedly, no attempt being made to secure the best expert advice. Consequently, that effort proved a failure. However, we learn from experience. Because of the splendid river system in the Kimberley region, which would allow of the provision of irrigation that portion of Western Australia could be developed into one of the richest cotton-growing areas in this country. Under this measure, the Government proposes to pay a bounty on raw cotton produced in Australia. I do not think that that assistance goes far enough. I am aware, of course, that we shall be obliged to deal with certain postwar problems. However, one of our first, responsibilites is to bring more land under production with a view to developing our primary industries to the greatest possible extent. To achieve that objective, the payment of bounties is not sufficient. For instance, the assistance to be provided under this measure will  not help to open up fresh areas which are suitable for the growing of cotton. The Government should devise a plan for the development of our primary industries as a whole. It should immediately consult with the State governments with a view to co-ordinating the efforts of those governments in this direction. If that were done, we should thus be enabled to prepare the way for the establishment of industries which will be most valuable to the nation, not only in the near future, but also when the war is ended. Undoubtedly, we have a home market for raw cotton. However, whilst we must do everything possible to exploit that market, we should at the same time provide, by way of substantial capital expenditure, for the development of additional areas suitable for the production of cotton. I urge the Minister to give consideration to this aspect of the matter. The Government should not confine its assistance to this industry to Queensland. Australia is a huge continent, and in dealing with problems of this kind, State borders should be entirely disregarded. At the first opportunity the Government should get in touch with the State governments with a view to putting in hand these very necessary productive undertakings. The proposal contained in this bill will provide only a small measure of assistance to primary production in Australia because it will be availed of mainly by those farmers with a large reserve of family labour. A report which I read some years ago pointed out that cottongrowing in Australia would be essentially a family industry ; that is to say, it would be undertaken chiefly by farmers with large families. On that ground I have no fault to find with the measure, because it is desirable to encourage rural settlement throughout the Commonwealth and this proposal will, no doubt, help in that direction. It will probably encourage people to remain on the land instead of finding their way into factories in our capital cities and elsewhere. Thus the payment of the bounty may help to preserve a balance of population as between rural and urban areas, and so aid in the defence of the Commonwealth. I support the second reading of the bill. 
If war has one redeeming feature it is that it operates as a driving force in the establishment of new industries.  Senator Abbott,  speaking earlier this afternoon, twitted  Senator Courtice  with at last seeing the light. As a matter of fact, honorable senators on this side saw the light many years ago. One of the principal planks of Labour's platform is to make Australia a selfcontained nation, and in order to achieve that end we have always encouraged the establishment of new primary and secondary industries. The present war has done much to stimulate this movement. Had Labour's policy been adopted many years ago we would to-day have been in a much better position to deal with all the problems that war brings to a people. For instance, the cottongrowing industry would have been well established. It seems to me that in this matter the Government is making a virtue of necessity. I believe that this proposal is one of the direct effects of the outbreak of war. Had such a scheme been mentioned in normal times, we would have been told that it would be economically unsound to grow cotton in Australia because it could be imported so much more cheaply from the United States of America or other cotton-growing countries where labour is cheaper and where cotton-picking machinery is employed to keep down costs of production. Therefore I repeat that war has its redeeming features. 
But the- Government is now proposing to do something which it refused, to do previously. As  Senator 'Cunningham  has said, we should take a long view of the situation and ask ourselves what we are going to do in connexion with our primary industries after the war. Will it then be urged that the need for cotton growing in this country is not pressing, and will the industry be neglected again simply because the raw product may be obtainable more cheaply from other countries? I express this thought in the hope that this aspect of cotton-growing and other forms of primary production will receive attention. 
If I may be permitted to digress, I would direct attention to the position of the meat industry. We have been told that there is a glut  of  meat in England at the present time. Are we to understand that it is the intention of the Government to restrict the production of meat, as has been suggested in connexion with wheat, simply because,  at  the moment, it is impossible to market the product with the same facility as prior  to  the war? What I am trying to convey  to  the Senate is that when discussing primary industries at a time when war is the driving force for their development, we should keep in mind the necessity for organizing an internal planned economy so that when war ceases we can, as has been suggested by  Senator Cunningham,  continue those industries and make this country as self-contained as possible. It is not difficult to envisage the course of events after the war. We may assume that there will be consultations between the governments of various countries concerning the marketing  of  primary products, and no doubt a system of quotas will be established with  a  view to restricting production of specified commodities. This being so, we should not allow the false impression to go abroad that, in bringing forward this measure, the Government is actuated only by a desire to encourage the growing  of  cotton in Australia. As I have shown, the war is the driving force in this matter. It is compelling Australia  to  embark upon industries which would not otherwise be established. 
.- The honorable senator who has just resumed his seat has accused the Government of having awakened at last to the necessity for a bounty on cotton, but I point out that a Cotton Bounty Act was passed by this Parliament in 1926. 
The honorable senator invariably endeavours, by misrepresentation, to belittle the efforts of the Government. For the last fourteen years attempts have been made to encourage the growth of cotton in Australia. Its production fell off because unsuitable methods were adopted. The Government of Queensland realized that the mistakes of the past could be remedied, and that the industry could be carried on successfully under conditions similar to those under which sugar is produced in Australia. Therefore, the Commonwealth Government proposes to increase the bounty on cotton for the next few years. If the industry can be established on a sound foundation, I shall not object to the initial expenditure required to assist the cotton-growers. I understand that the bounty is to be paid to the producers of raw cotton, who will, in turn, pay a portion of it to the producers of seed cotton; but it seems to me that the growers of seed cotton are entitled to the whole of the bounty. The measure appears to be somewhat ambiguous in that regard. 
I agree with  Senator Cameron  that the present Government and previous Commonwealth Governments have been remiss in regard to the encouragement of the cotton industry. The history of cotton production in Australia conclusively substantiates my statement. For 80 years cotton has been grown in this country. It was first produced in Queensland in 1860, but, even to-day, the industry is not established on a sure foundation. Had past governments done their duty, realizing the possibility of war, the growers of cotton would have been assured of a payable price for their product. Members of my family have been compelled to gather their cotton crops, because the low price offered for their product made it impossible for them to employ labour for that work.  Senator Cameron  has truly stated that the present war has demonstrated the need for the encouragement of this industry. Its success should have been ensured long ago. because cotton is one of the ingredients required in the manufacture of munitions. The only fault that I have  to find with the proposed bounty is that it is to be progressively decreased, the assumption being that the cost of production will eventually be reduced. Personally, I think that the Government should have agreed to the payment for a number of years of the rate of bounty proposed to be paid in the first year. 
Apart from the value of cotton production as ameans of supplying an important defence requirement, the success of the industrywould mark an important advance in the direction of making Australia self-supporting. Honorable senators opposite often deplore the development of economic nationalism throughout the world, on the ground that it leads to war. I point out to  Senator Abbott,  who supports the bill, that its principles are contrary to many of the ideas which he has enunciated in this chamber in the past. They are also contrary to the political beliefs of many other honorable senators opposite. We, on the opposition side, believe that progress towards economic independence should lead in the direction of world peace. Honorable senators opposite must expect the inevitable development, in this and other countries, of economic systems under which nations will become increasingly self-supporting. When the war is over -and we all hope that it will end speedily - Australia will have vital problems to solve. If its progress is to be maintained, governments will have to adopt financial methods different from those employed in the past.  Senator Abbott,  like the late  Sir George  Reid, is a " member facing both ways ", and in common with his colleagues of the Country party and members of the United Australia party, refuses to face economic facts. They support this measure because they believe that it will provide employment, assist our defence requirements, and increase development, but, at the same time, they deplore the development of economic nationalism. 
The members of the Opposition supported the marketing proposals. 
The members of the Labour party, who are always allowed a certain measure of freedom, have at all times advocated improved marketing methods. We are supported in our opinions by our non-Communist friends, and our anti-Communist colleagues, and some of the views held by proCommunists. 
Not more than there are within the United Australia party. That party is more subtle, and instead of having different designations for its various sections it is about to allow them all to go before the electors as the representatives of one big political party. 
Of course I am. The only fault that I have to find with the measure is that the bounty is to be reduced annually, instead of a definite attempt being made to establish an important industry on a permanent basis. I am showing honorable senators opposite that serious problems will arise in consequence of the methods that are being adopted to-day. The supporters of the Government who are opposed to economic nationalism endeavour to assist industries by means of bounties and other temporary expedients. As the Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  once said, the members of the United Australia party constitute a hopeless, helpless, aimless, shapeless mass of political plasticine. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! The honorable senator must discuss the bill. 
We know the goal we are seeking, but honorable senators opposite have no idea of their ultimate destination. All sections of the Labour party have stated most clearly that there must be definite co-ordination and organized development of Australian industry. Such a policy has always been advocated by the Labour party, because it realizes that the sooner we develop Australian industries the sooner we shall become a self-supporting nation. Honorable senators opposite deal with problems such as this in a piecemeal manner, and consequently the electors have no confidence in them. The Labour party plans for the future, but this Government and others of a similar political complexion legislate only for the moment. This Government provides only a temporary means to overcome the problems with which it is confronted. It should look further ahead, and establish a permanent system under which  cotton-growing  and other essential industries can be placed on a sound economic basis, and in that way assist, not only our war effort, but also every individual activity which may be of benefit to the Commonwealth. 
I congratulate the Government upon introducing this measure which should be the means of stabilizing the cottongrowing industry of Australia. During the past 20 years the industry has experienced periods of success and of failure. In 1920, when approximately 45,581 lb. of raw cotton was produced in Australia, the industry was in the initial stages of development, and financial assistance was granted by Commonwealth and State Governments in order to provide a fixed price- over a period of years. Cotton has been grown in practically every mainland State, but climatic and other conditions in Queensland were found to be more suitable than those in the other States. Unfortunately, in the early stages cotton-growing was not developed on a scientific basis, and growers were allowed to produce unsuitable types of cotton. In some instances the results were unsatisfactory, and as small returns were obtained, the industry did not prosper. Since 1920 the Commonwealth Government has supported the industry by the payment of a bounty on seed cotton which is cotton in the boll. In a great many instances inferior types of cotton were grown and the industry languished. From lj)26 to the present day the Commonwealth Government has paid bounties amounting to £1,250,000. In 1934 it was found that better results could be obtained by paying a bounty on the raw cotton after it had been ginned and all the fibres and other material removed, and in consequence cotton of a superior quality was produced. Years of experience has shown that the dry-farming methods adopted in Queensland have not been entirely successful, and during the last ten years it has been found that in good seasons the production an acre has been considerably higher than in bad seasons, when, in fact, the crop has been unprofitable. It is now realized that cotton grown under irrigation enables the growers to obtain a satisfactory return regardless of the season. I am glad that an agreement has been reached whereby the Government of Queensland will expend approximately £640,000, over a number of years, on the irrigation of cotton-growing areas, and the Commonwealth Government will pay a bounty on a sliding scale, which will assure a reasonable profit to growers. It has been said during this debate that the Commonwealth Government has taken a long time to realize the necessity for stabilizing the cotton industry. In justice to the Government, however, I point out that it has already given £1,250,000 to the industry and proposes to pay £750,000 in bounty during the next five years. There is a distinction between the kind of assistance to be given by the Government of Queensland and that to be given by the Commonwealth Government. The latter is making a definite grant to the industry, but the Queensland Government will be able to recover the money it is proposed to expend. The irrigation area will be an asset to it; the cost of water will be a charge against the cotton-growers and can be recovered in the form of rent or water tax. I am glad that at last the Commonwealth has been able to secure the co-operation of at least one State in the development of an industry which will probably grow into one of our greatest primary industries. It is estimated that 9,000 bales of cotton will be harvested this year; Australia's annual requirement of cotton at the present time is 65,000 bales, so that the rate of production can be increased by 5S,000 bales a year before local needs will be supplied. The textile industry is already soundly established. Large mills in the southern States are manufacturing cotton goods,  which are as good as any that are produced elsewhere. Those mills depend for the bulk of their cotton supplies on Egypt, India and America. All of their requirements could well be grown in Australia. I agree with  Senator Cunningham  that cotton-growing should be developed with a view to employing many of our returned soldiers in the post-war years. It is an industry that can be commenced with a limited amount of capital, and is one most suited to closer settlement. Many parts of Queensland, apart from the Callide Valley and Dawson Valley areas, are suitable for cottongrowing. The Mareeba district could be irrigated from the Barron River. Other areas of the Commonwealth are equally suitable. Approximately seven times the number of people at present employed in cotton production could be engaged if we produced sufficient cotton to meet local requirements. The Minister informed honorable senators that there are 2,700 growers, 1,000 pickers, 2,000 ginnery workers and 170 others, making a total of 5,870. Therefore, if the industry were developed sufficiently to meet the local demand, 42,000 persons could be engaged directly in cotton production. Another important benefit that would accrue is that approximately £1,000,000 a year which is now expended in the purchase of foreign-grown cotton would be kept in Australia. 
I commend the Government for having introduced this bill. Rapid improvement should be shown now that the Queensland Government proposes to deal with the industry on scientific lines. It will appoint officers to experimental stations in order to advise the growers regarding the varieties of cotton to plant, methods of treating diseases, and other problems. I feel sure that the industry will be as successful as the sugar industry already is. The industry need not be confined entirely to Queeusland. I hope that it will be developed so that Australia not only will supply its own requirements but also export to other countries. 
 I compliment my colleague,  Senator Courtice,  on the excellent speech he made on the bill this afternoon. He speaks with authority on all matters affecting primary industries, to which he has given a long life of service. Unfortunately some of the remarks that have been intruded into this debate have sounded suspiciously like political recrimination. There is no occasion for that. Honorable senators will recall that  Senator Courtice  was not guilty of committing a breach of that kind; I propose to follow his example.  I  shall draw attention to some of the facts concerning the cotton industry with which all honorable senators should endeavour to make themselves intimately acquainted.  Senator Brown  said that honorable senators on this side of the chamber know where they are going. He intended that remark to apply to the Labour party's policy, not to the subject which is probably uppermost in all of our minds - the impending elections. Nevertheless the Labour party knows where it is going in that connexion. Honorable senators opposite also probably know where they are going, but they cannot be so positive as we are that they will come back after the elections. 
I wish to administer a mild rebuke to  Senator Abbott  for a statement he made this afternoon1. From time to time, when honorable senators on this side of the chamber show that they have a definite policy, which they understand and which they are capable of expounding,  Senator Abbott  suggests that we should join the Country party. 
It would be good for the Country party; it would bring sincerity of purpose and capacity for action into the ranks of that party. Those virtues would be a valuable acquisition to it. But the doors of the Labour party are always open. As soon as any honorable senator opposite can show signs that he is ready for the political penitent form we shall be glad to receive him as a repentant sinner. 
Order! 
As I have said, I have seen what may be regarded as the beginnings of the cotton industry. I know its value and what its prosperous continuance means to the men and women who desire no other life than to be engaged in primary production. I have seen what has been accomplished in the great sugar industry in Queensland, and the wonderful job that has been done in that State and in other parts of Australia. Because I have seen these things, I realize that we can do the same splendid Australian job for the great cotton industry which Australia needs so much. So I commend the Government for this measure. I hope that the Government will make sure that this industry is not subjected to any more shocks or setbacks, and that it will be encouraged to stand on its own feet as other industries are now doing. The Queensland Government should be given full praise by the Commonwealth for what it has done for cotton growing. There is one particular aspect of that Government's valuable work to which I should like to refer - it was touched upon by  Senator Cooper  - and that is the replacement of dry farming by irrigation. The Queensland Government made it possible for individual cotton-growers to have their own irrigation plants. I am not sure of the figures, but I believe that the application of scientific irrigation to cotton growing increased the production fourfold. There are several other features of this industry which are very important and which might very well be brought within the ambit of this discussion. Once more I say that this bill is a very welcome measure, and I am sure that every honorable senator will support it. We on this side of the chamber hope that the Government will keep in mind not merely how much assistance it can afford to give, although, of course, that is important, but also the value of this industry to Australia and the great benefit that will be derived from it should adequate encouragement be given. 
Were it not for the fact that cotton is so vitally necessary to our -war effort I should not be inclined to support this measure. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  admitted that we have been endeavouring to grow cotton in Australia for nearly 80 years, and the fact that the industry is not yet on an economic basis seems to indicate that it has to overcome great natural difficulties. To-day, all our primary industries are confronted with grave marketing problems. The production of many commodities is subsidized, and, in respect of others, bounties are being paid. These subsidies and bounties are making our industrial economy top-heavy. For that reason we should go very carefully with regard to this industry. I should not feel inclined to support any vast scheme of development unless it is first thoroughly tested, and, whilst I am not opposed to the proper testing of any plan deemed likely to place an industry on a proper basis, there is a danger that we shall encourage uneconomic expansion. If the object of this scheme were to divert primary producers from other uneconomic industries, I should not be opposed to it. It has been suggested that as a contribution to the post-war adjustment the expansion of cotton growing is very desirable, but I remind honorable senators of the difficulties in which we landed ourselves by the settlement of returned soldiers along the river Murray. That scheme imposed a tremendous drag on almost every State, and even to-day the burden has not been entirely lifted. In view of that unfortunate experience, any large developmental scheme should be considered very carefully. However, it is true that to-day we have to import a good deal of the cotton required in Australia. Speaking from memory, I think that our imports amount to something like 65,000 bales a year, and about half that quantity comes from non-sterling countries. That is one reason why we should endeavour to make Australia selfsufficient in respect of cotton, but apart from that aspect, I am not at all enthusiastic about the measure, although I do not intend to oppose it. 
 in reply  - I thank honorable senators for the reception they have given to this measure. I should like to refer to one matter which has been raised by honorable senators, namely, the sliding scale on which the bounty is paid. When a conference was held, the Government and the primary producers agreed that in order to assist irrigation it was necessary in the early stages to keep the bounty up to the top figure of  4½d.,  sliding down by id. in the second year. The cotton industry is not seeking  a bounty  merely for the sake of receiving a bounty; it wants a longterm policy, and so lie Government is introducing a plan extending over five years, in order that cotton-growing may be thoroughly stabilized. Obviously, once an industry is established and those engaged in it are obtaining a fair return for their produce, Government assistance should not be continued. Those engaged in cotton-growing believe that by means of this five-year agreement, the industry will have what it has never had before, namely, an opportunity to convert, generally speaking, from dryfarming to wet-farming, thus enabling increased production to the acre. As was pointed out by  Senator Leckie  and other honorable senators, the Government has provided substantial financial assistance to the cotton industry in the past. Apart from bad seasons and low prices, the main reason why the industry failed to live up to the expectations of those directly interested in it, is because it was obliged to operate on a year-to-year basis. The growers were not enabled to look ahead. As a sugar-grower,  Senator Courtice  knows what stabilization means to an industry. He knows that the sugar agreement gave to sugar-growers an opportunity to plan ahead. The Government considers that the cotton industry should also be stabilized ' in' this way. The growers should know what they are to receive for their product over a given period, and that for a given period they can rely upon a measure of Government assistance. That is the basis of this proposal. We hope that the industry will thus be placed on a permanent basis within the next five years, at the end of which period this agreement will he reviewed. The principal problem which we have to face is that the areas in Queensland most suitable for cottongrowing, mainly the Dawson and Callide Valleys, are very much subject to drought. A series of bad seasons in those areas caused a large number of growers to abandon the industry. Already, as the result of this agreement, large areas are being prepared for cotton, whilst many growers are not waiting for the installation of large irrigation systems, but are establishing their own small irrigation plants, or transferring plants which are now being used for other purposes to land which they intend to devote to cotton. Undoubtedly, this assistance will result in a large increase of the output of the industry, and, as all honorable senators admit, we need cotton very badly at the present time. In reply to  Senator Leckie,  I point out that all of the bounty will be paid to the growers themselves. I emphasize that cotton is one of the few products grown in this country in respect of which the supply fails to exceed the demand. Indeed, up to date we have been producing only one-fifth of our total requirements. Consequently, when we revert to normal times, and the demand is considerably reduced in comparison with our war-time requirements, a large margin will still remain,  ber  cause of the progress which has been made in cotton-manufacturing in this country, to permit of considerable expansion of the industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Limit of annual bounty). 
I should like to know whether, when the bounty was decided, consideration was given to the claims of the small cotton-grower as against the big grower. The big grower is able to produce cotton much more cheaply than the small grower and, consequently, if he be paid bounty at the same rate, he will enjoy a considerable advantage over the small grower, particularly if the price be not increased. Usually the small grower cannot sell his product on terms as favorable as can the big grower. Therefore, unless some provision be made to meet the position of the small grower, we shall most likely witness a recurrence of what happened in the wheat industry, in which small growers have been displaced by big growers. 
 No differentiation is made between the small grower and what the honorable senator is pleased to term the big grower. No suggestion of that kind has come from the growers themselves. I point out that the so-called big grower does not exist in the cotton industry. The average area of the farms is about seventeen acres. Cottongrowing is essentially a small farmers' industry. Consequently, nothing can be gained by differentiating between growers, simply because some might happen to have under cultivation a little more acreage than others. In addition, the same price will be obtained for the product as a whole, because the cotton goes to the ginnery which is owned co-operatively by the growers themselves, and all are paid at the one rate. 
 I point out that after the last war, an attempt was made to establish cotton-growing on small farms in the Derby district in the northwest of Western Australia. The methods then used were rather primitive, and the venture failed. However, in view of the advances made in cotton-growing as the result of the application of scientific methods, involving a greater knowledge of suitable types and treatment, it might be possible to encourage the people of that district to make another attempt to establish the industry in that area. Great strides have been made in. the industry, particularly with regard to irrigation, and more economic methods of treatment and handling of the product. I ask the Minister to give an undertaking that an officer of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research will be despatched to the Derby district to report on the possibilities of establishing the industry there. The people of Western Australia believe, particularly since the outbreak of war, that the Government is prone to overlook their claims for consideration when dealing with proposals of this kind  for the expansion of primary industries. Considerable scope exists for the expansion of the cotton industry in Australia, just as we are now discovering, at a rather late hour, our need to increase our production of flax. We should use the impetus of war to establish the cotton industry in those areas which are admitted to be suitable. 
. -Iamofopinion that this measure will very largely achieve what the honorable senator suggests. The provision of this bounty will encourage owners of suitable land to grow cotton. I am not aware of any special action which the Commonwealth Government can take in respect of any particular area. At present the industry is largely confined to Queensland, hut the bounty will be paid on cotton grown anywhere in Australia. Consequently, settlers in the north-west of Western Australia who grow cotton will qualify for the bounty. 
SenatorFOLL. - The provision of this bounty is in itself an encouragement to them to grow cotton. I suggest to the honorable senator that he could well address many of his remarks to the Government of Western Australia, and find out if it is prepared to assist in the establishment of the industry in its State by providing water conservation and irrigation schemes, as the Queensland Government has done. 
Such an impetus is provided by this bounty. However, I shall bring under the notice of the Minister in Charge of Scientific and IndustrialResearch  (Senator Collett)  the honorable senator's suggestion that an officer of the Council for Scientific and IndustrialResearch be despatched to the Derby district. I think that  Senator Cunningham  dispelled any doubt about the quality of the soil in the Kimberley Ranges. He told us that it had been proved definitely that cotton could be grown in that area. I therefore advise the farmers of Western Australia to take advantage of the opportunity provided in this bill to engage in cotton-growing so that they, too, may obtain the benefit of the act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8 (Specification of bounty). 
.- This clause enacts that the bounty shall be payable in respect of raw cotton which has been graded in one of the grades prescribed in section 12 of the act. Section 12 provides that - 
All raw cotton in respect of which bounty is claimed shall be graded into such grades and staple lengths as are prescribed. 
That would seem to leave room for a good deal of guesswork, and it is possible that growers of the better grade of cotton will not receive an adequate reward as compared with the growers of inferior grades. It is desirable that the Minister should make the position clear. 
The various grades of cotton upon which bounty will be payable are prescribed in regulations to be found in Statutory Rules 1936, No. 22. Sub-regulation 1 of regulation 4 reads - 
For the purposes of the act and of these regulations, raw cotton shall, subject to the next succeeding sub-regulation, be graded into the following grades: - 

 White Cotton - 

Middling fair 
Strict good middling 
Good middling 
Strict middling 
Middling 
Strict low middling Low middling 
* Strict good ordinary 
* Good ordinary 

 Light Spotted Cotton - 

Strict good middling light spotted 
Good middling light spotted 
Strict middling light spotted. 
Middling light spotted 
Strict low middling light spotted 
Low middling light spotted 

 Yellow Spotted Cotton - 

Good middling yellow spotted 
Strict middling yellow spotted 
Middling yellow spotted 
Strict low middling yellow spotted 
Low middling yellow spotted 

 Heavy Spotted Cotton - 

Good middling heavy spotted 
Strict middling heavy spotted 
Middlingheavy spotted 
Strict low middling heavy spotted 
Low middling heavy spotted 

 White Wasty Cotton - 

Good middling white wasty 
Strict middling white wasty 
Middling white wasty 
Strict low middling white wasty 
Low middling white wasty 
 In pursuance of sub-section 3 of section 9 of the act, bounty is payable at half rates. 
That is so. Subregulation 2 provides - 
Each of the grades referred to in the last preceding sub-regulation shall be classed according to staple lengths of raw cotton ranging from one to three-sixteenths of an inch to one-quarter of an inch, each staple length being progressively less than the preceding staple length by one-sixteenth of one inch. 
The grading of cotton is carried out on much the same lines as is the grading of wool. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Rates of bounty). 
I understood the Minister to say that at the conference of representative growers and the Government it was agreed that it would take about five years for the industry to be self-supporting. On what was that belief based? Is it anticipated that the Australian growers will supply the whole of the requirements of the Commonwealth at present prices, or is any allowance to be made for a possible increase or decrease of prices? 
I think I said, in my reply to the second-reading debate, that it was considered by the growers and by the Government that the payment of the bounty for five years would give the industry a chance to become established. It is hoped that, at the end of that period, the growers will he able to carry on without further government assistance. But no one can foresee the future trend of events. No one can say what will be the price of cotton a few years hence. World prices may fall so low that it will be necessary for the Government to continue some form of financial aid to the Australian industry. The amount of bounty which the Government may have to pay will be determined by world parity. One can only surmise what will be the position at the end of five years ; but, as I have said, it is hoped that the industry will then be able to carry on without further government assistance. 
 What I am about to say should, perhaps, have been said during the debate on the second reading; but I take this opportunity to remind the committee that cotton-growing is not the only war-time industry that may require assistance. The principle of the bill is sound and the motive of the Government a good one. It is desirable that the Australian cotton industry should be expanded, and there is a remote possibility that at the end of five years, it will be able to carry on without further aid. As I have said, other industries of definite war-time value are being developed in this country. The production of flax, for instance, is equally important, yet government assistance to that industry is limited to one year. 1 hope that the Minister representing the Minister for Commercewill make further inquiries to see whether this important primary industry cannot be treated more liberally. I commend the Government for what it has done for the cotton industry, but I contend that there should be no differentiation between the definite war-time activity of flax-growing and the growing of cotton. As honorable senators will recall, the expansion of flaxgrowing in Australia is being undertaken at the request of the British Government. It should receive the same treatment as is given to cotton-growing. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 24 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.19 to 8.15 p.m. 

Although this is a short measure it is of considerable importance, and certain of its phases are worthy of consideration. That these are unusual times was obviously recognized in the House of Representatives where the bill, which had the support of the members of all parties, had a speedy passage. Long before I knew that the introduction of a measure such as this would be necessary, I had formed the opinion that nothing which has been done recently in connexion with the defence of Australia could be more opportune than the proposal to appoint a representative of Australia in Tokyo. It is unnecessary for me to say that I did not agree with the political opinions held by  Sir John  Latham when he was a member of this Parliament; but he has been out of the hurly-burly of politics for some time and now enjoys the serene atmosphere of the judiciary. I remember, however, the very valuable work which he performed as the leader of the Goodwill Mission which visited the East some time ago, and I recall how well he was received in Japan, and particularly the fine address which he delivered to the members of this Parliament after his return to Australia. If ever there was a time when it was essential that Australia should be seeking the friendship of other nations - and particularly the nation concerned in this instance - it is now. The appointment is a gesture of goodwill, and one which I believe will be reciprocated in the country to which  Sir John's  new duties will take him. It might be possible to offer some form of carping criticism, but I trust that that will not be done, because it is essential in the interests of Australia that he should take up his responsible duties with a knowledge that every one in this country wishes him success in the important work which he is to undertake, and that it will not be possible for any one to say that his appointment met with other than the full approval of the representatives of all shades of political opinion in this national legislature. For these reasons, I am not raising the legal aspect of the appointment, which was dealt with effectively by my colleagues in the House of Representatives this afternoon. It is pleasing to know thatin that chamber there was no opposition to the measure. My interest in the appointment is based on views which I have expressed in this chamber on numerous occasions, and that is that long ago we should have framed a definite policy of goodwill with all nations willing to reciprocate. This appointment carries us a long way along the road towards such a policy. Personally, I wish Si'' John Latham all possible success in his new office, and I trust that the passage of this bill will assist him to carry out successfully the duties of the important office to which he has been appointed. By the passage of this measure we can feel that individually and collectively we are doing something to assist him in his great work. 
 I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings).  Probably it would have been of great advantage to Australia had  Sir John  Latham been able to remain in J apan, when he visited that country some years ago, in order to build on the foundations then laid. While  Sir John  is in Japan I feel sure that he will be able to work in the interests, not only of Australia, but also of other Pacific nations. I trust, however, that when he reaches Japan he will be able to confer with members of the Japanese Government, and also that the Minister appointed from Tokyo to Canberra will not be placed in the position in which  Mr. Gauss,  the representative of the Government of the United States of America, was placed.  Mr. Gauss  had to linger along the banks of the Molonglo, because there were no Commonwealth Ministers in Canberra to meet or confer with him. I wish  Sir John  every success in the highly important duties that he is to undertake. I trust that he will have the assistance of Japanese Ministers, and that when he returns to Australia, the Parliament and the people will be more than satisfied with the service which he has rendered to this nation. 
 As one who was associated with the distinguished gentleman who is the subject-matter of this bill, I desire to pay tribute to his selfsacrifice in accepting this high and important office at the hands of the Commonwealth Government. I do not regard the post which he is about to fill as a bed of roses, neither do I think that the appointment is one which he would seek. Having achieved probably what was his life's ambition, that of Chief Justice in his own country, his acceptance of this office has been dictated by his high sense of public duty. As a colleague, I know that he was always loyal to those with whom he was associated and loyal to Australia. By dint of his own efforts, he has become a great Australian. Having reached what we might term the zenith of his ambition, he is now sacrificing himself and his family life to take up the important office of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary for the Commonwealth in Japan. We have been told how  Sir John  is regarded by the Japanese people and of the success he attained when he visited Japan as the leader of a goodwill mission. I know from association with distinguished Japanese people who have visited Australia how highly he is regarded in Japan, because the Japanese people believe, as we do, that he is a man whom all can trust. He will leave Australia with the goodwill of every section of the Australian community. He goes to Japan to serve a great end - the establishment of a better relationship between Australia and a powerful people with great traditions in the north Pacific zone. The people of this country know that  Sir John  is a gentleman to whom the destinies of this country can ' be trusted. The Japanese people know that in him they can place implicit faith. Some may say that this measure violates a principle of our constitutional and judiciary law, but the times are abnormal. I was glad to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and the leader of the other section of the Labour party in this chamber speak as they did concerning the appointment which, I think, means so much to the future of Australia. I congratulate the Government most sincerely upon having obtained  Sir John's  consent to accept this important post. 
.- I do not propose to discuss the appointment of  Sir John  Latham as Australia's representative in Tokyo other than to say that I believe that every one in Australia believes that the best possible appointment has been made. I am afraid, however, that the Government has been unwise in restricting the appointment to the duration of the war and twelve months thereafter. In these days no one can forecast what is likely to happen in the next few years; but it appears to me that when the war is over and the inevitable clearing up between nations  has to he undertaken, that may he the time when the services of  Sir John  Latham in Japan may be even more valuable to Australia than they can be at the present time. Therefore, the appointment should be made for a longer period. Twelve months after the termination of the war is an unreasonably short time in which to expect our representative in Tokyo to do what must necessarily be done. 
That is true, but it is not necessary to restrict the term of the appointment thus possibly necessitating the passage of another bill of this kind. I have no other criticism of the measure. As  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has said, the appointment has met with the approbation of all sections of the Australian community. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the Government the difficulties confronting the gold-mining industry at the present time. Unfortunately many people appear to believe that the industry is making excellent progress, whereas it is suffering as the result of rising costs of production and high rates of taxation. I impress upon the Minister representing the Treasurer the importance of publishing a statement showing in detail the cost of the realization of Australian gold in the United States of America. I mentioned this subject recently, referring particularly to the fluctuating dollar-sterling exchange rate in America. That problem has now been overcome by the pegging of the exchange rate at a permanent level. But gold producers doubt whether they are receiving the full return for their product after the deduction of the realization expenses incurred by the Commonwealth Bank, which exports the gold to the United States of America. The Commonwealth Bank Board seems to be reluctant to publish details of those expenses. I ask the Government to obtain from the board details of the transhipment and realization costs in the United States of America and the balance due to the producers. 
I mention this matter because of the increases of production costs caused by the high prices of materials, and because of the huge burden of taxation which the industry is now bearing. The following list of commodities shows the percentage increases of prices charged for them since the outbreak of war: - 

<graphic href="164332194008216_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

I could mention another 50 items, all of which have become more expensive since the beginning of the war. The rate of increase varies between 5 per cent. and 50 per cent. I have here a statement prepared by the Great Boulder Proprietary Gold Mines Limited referring to the transference of the company's directorate and office from England to Australia. The statement contains some remarkable figures indicative of the taxation burden which the gold-mining industry is bearing. They show that, of the company's estimated net profit of £460,000 for the year ending the 31st December, 1940, only £63,248 will be received by the shareholders. The balance will be used to pay taxes. The Australian gold tax, payable on a quantity of 114,000. oz. at the rate of 16s. 41/2d.  anoz., will amount to ?85,500. State taxes levied by the Government of Western Australia at the rate of 3s. 103/4d. in the ?1, will amount to ?72,950, making a total of Australian taxes of ?158,450. When the Minister for Mines in Western Australia recently criticized the Commonwealth gold tax as being harsh, he conveniently omitted to refer to the amount levied by his State Government as income and other taxes. That amount is nearly equal to the Commonwealth tax. The company will also have to pay British taxes amounting to ?238,302. This burden of taxes is not very encouraging to the gold-mining industry, particularly in areas bearing only lowgrade ore. There are many low-grade districts in Western Australia, and Australia's gold production could be doubled if they were developed properly. I hope that the Government will endeavour to prevent further increases of the financial burden of the industry and will  ensure  that it receives the fullest possible credit for the disposal of gold in the United States of America. I am aware that gold is shipped to the United States of America in order to provide funds for the purchase of munitions of war, but the Government should not neglect the interests of producers of that commodity, who have expressed doubt as to whether the Commonwealth Bank is paying the full amount due to them on the realization of their gold in America. I ask the Government to obtain the information for which I have asked. 
 I am dissatisfied with the answer given to a question which I asked in this chamber to-day on the subject of national insurance. Friendly societies entered into the national insurance scheme in good faith, and I cannot understand why the Government has not reimbursed them fully for the money they expended in preparing for the scheme. National insurance must be introduced eventually. These societies will think twice before they take action in connexion with any scheme of national insurance which might be proposed in the future. They had completed their preparations in order to play their part under  the scheme  originally propounded. The least the Government can do is to reimburse  them. 
I propose to say a few words with respect to the position of the Trade Unions Advisory Panel, which has been very much misrepresented in the press. As a member of the Emergency Committee of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions I shall explain just exactly what has happened, so that any one interested in the matter may be enabled to learn the facts from the point of view of the council. As the result of talks which took place between the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and members of the Emergency Committee the Council submitted certain proposals to a conference of trade unions. We understood at the time from the Prime Minister that he had agreed in principle to these proposals, which were as follows: - 
Trade union advisory panels shall be appointed for the formulation of recommendations on any question affecting the following matters - 
Utilization of man-power. 
Efficient use of man-power. 
Industrial conditions or proposed alterations in industrial conditions or customs. 
Prevention of conditions likely to cause disputes. 
Speedy settlement of grievances. 
Panels. - To effect such proposals there shall be appointed one major panel and at least nine (9) subsidiary panels. 
The functions of the panels shall be within the limits of the powers contained in paragraph 1. 

 Major panel ; 
Shall be the connecting link between the Government and subsidiary panels and unions. 
Shall consider, investigate and make recommendations to the Government, subsidiary panels and Trade Union Movement on matters remitted to the panel by the Government or subsidiary panels, and, shall, when necessary, consult the appropriate subsidiary panel. 
Shall consider any proposed departure from existing industrial practices, conditions, customs or any regulations which affect the Trade Union Movement. All such proposals must be submitted to the major panel for consideration, investigation or recommendation before any action is taken. 
Subsidiary panels - 
Shall consider, investigate and make recommendations in respect to all matters affecting conditions of employment of members of unions in the industries represented on the pan el. 
Shall make recommendations to the major panel on matters affecting the conditions of employment in the industries represented on the subsidiary panel. 
Shall consider, investigate and make recommendations of matters remitted by the major panel. 
Shall where a subsidiary panel covers an industry in which Governmentowned factories are operating, confer with and advise the management of such factories on matters arising within the jurisdiction of the panel. 
Shall report to major panel all decisions reached. 
Shall determine whether applications for awards or variations of awards affecting the members of more than one union shall be proceeded with. 3a. Representation of major panel - 
The major panel shall consist of one representative appointed by and from each subsidiary panel. 
In addition to the representation provided in clause 1, officers of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, namely, president and secretary, with the two vicepresidents as alternate representatives shall be members of the panel. 3b. Constitution and representatives of subsidiary panels - 
At least nine (9) subsidiary panels shall be formed representing the following groups of industries - 
Metal. 
Munition. 
General Manufacturing. 
Clothing. 
Building. 
Sea Transport. 
Land Transport. 
Coal-mining and Metalliferous Mining. 
Primary Production. 
Except as hereinafter provided one representative of each union attached to a subsidiary panel shall be appointed to such subsidiary panel. 
Three representatives of the Australian Workers' Union shall be appointed to the primary production panel. 
Conciliation committees. - The conference adopted the proposals outlined in the " Wartime Industrial Relations Bill" which it is proposed shall be taken up later with the Commonwealth Government. 
What we virtually agreed upon was that we should have nine subsidiary panels on which the unions concerned, and which I have just named, would be directly represented. Then, each subsidiary panel would have a representative on the major panel. We were under the impression that the Prime Minister had agreed that this basis of representation was about as effective and as equitable as the unions could desire. We considered also that most disputes of a minor character could be settled by the subsidiary panels, but in the event of no settlement being arrived at a dispute would be referred to the major panel, which would deal directly with the Government in connexion with the matter. The proposal to establish a major panel and nine subsidiary panels was agreed to by a conference of representatives of federal unions, and later by three out of the five State branches of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. Consequently, this proposal had the endorsement of the majority of the unions directly concerned, as well as the Trades Hall councils, on which all unions were represented. Later, however, much to our surprise, we received the following letter, dated the 24th July, from the Prime Minister :  - "Dear  Mr. Crofts, 

 Re Trade Unions Advisory Panel. 
With reference to your correspondence and interviews on this matter Cabinet has given consideration to the position which exists as a result of the rejection of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions scheme by the States of Queensland and New South Wales. 
We are of opinion that these circumstances render, it extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the Australasian Council of Trade Unions proposals to operate with the effective support of the major unions. In addition to this, I have been advised by representatives of the Australian Workers Union, the Maritime Transport Council, the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Textile Workers Union, and the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association and the Arms and Munition Workers Union, that those unions are prepared at once to co-operate with the Government in the formation of the Trade Unions Advisory Panel, each such union to appoint one representative and the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to appoint two representatives. Further representation of other unions would be welcomed. 
The representatives of the unions to which I have referred feel that the Australasian Council of Trade Unions plan, which provides for a large number of subsidiary panels, is too complex, and that a firm foundation could be best established by creating a central panel along the lines indicated. 
It is now months since my discussions with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions began, and the Government has been extremely patient in carrying them on. We are convinced that finality must be reached and we find it impossible to accept the position that our capacity to get a Trade Unions Panel should depend upon a decision from the Trades and Labour Council in the smallest and least industrial State. We are therefore proposing to invite the organizations above nominated to join in an Advisory Panel and at the same time we are inviting your organization to appoint two representatives on such panel. 
Having regard to the character of our war industries, which are most concerned with the constitution of a panel, it cannot be doubted that the body which will be constituted as a result of this decision will bo fully representative and effective. I propose to act accordingly this evening. 
Yours sincerely, (Signed) Robert G. Menzies, 
I am trying to induce the Government to honor its obligations and promises to the trade union movement. I am protesting against what I regard as double-dealing, or working at cross-purposes, which is more likely than anything else to provoke industrial disputes. That is exactly what I am doing, and I am doing a great deal more than the Government to help our war effort industrially. 
I have always run true to form; but I cannot say that of the honorable senator. 
If the honorable senator did so, he would, perhaps, be less objectionable, and would be able to do more to help us win the war than he is doing at the present time. Insofar as the panel is not fully representative of the trade union movement, the statement by the Prime Minister is not correct. 
I rely not on stupid personal interjections, but on facts. Following the receipt of the Prime Minister's letter a meeting of the Emergency Committee of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions was held, and authorized the  president, Mr. Monk,  and the secretary,  Mr. Crofts,  to make the following statement, which they duly made :  - 
The Prime Minister is once again endeavouring to cover up his own incapacity to meet the industrial situation in the war period by suggesting it is ludicrous to infer that he, as Prime Minister, is attempting to split or defy the trade union movement by endeavouring to throw the blame upon the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. 

 Mr. Menzies himself vacillated with the problemfor months, and he did not, at any material time, definitely place before the representatives of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions concrete proposals. 
The broad principle of the establishment of a panel was advanced by the Prime Minister following upon what had been proposed by his predecessor,  Mr. J.  A. Lyons. The proposal for setting up a major panel with subsidiary panels representing industry units was postulated by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions and acquiesced in by the Prime Minister. 
At the last interview before the peremptory decision of the Prime Minister conveyed to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions under date of the 24th July,  Mr. Menzies  had before him a detailed scheme of one major and nine subsidiary panels. He intimated prior to the federal unions conference that this scheme met with his approval in principle, and only minor alterations in verbage may be necessary. To show the Prime Minister's complete agreement with the scheme, it is only necessary to quote the lastportion of his letter to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions under date of the 14th June - "I should add, for the purposes of record, that my specific proposal in relation to the Trade Union Advisory Panel is that the relevant unions should be grouped into a series of sections such as transport, textile workers, engineers, and so on, and that the unions comprising each group should themselves choose a panel of, say, five, to be the panel for that group, each panel in turn nominating a representative to a central panel,' with the final proviso that, if the Australasian Council of Trade Unions is unrepresented on that final panel, its  president  and secretary for the time being should become ex-officio members of it". 
We emphasize the use of the words " for the purposes of record ", which, at least, have proved to bc a protection for the officers of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions in their negotiations with him. 

 Mr. Menzies was quite aware that it was necessary for the five trades and labour councils to vote upon the issue. He met representatives of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions on Friday, the 19th July, in Sydney, after he knew both the Sydney and Brisbane councils had rejected the proposal. He knew that two conferences, representing the coal-mining and metal trades groups, had met the previous day and agreed on the basis of establishment of subsidiary panels on the assumption that the majority of the councils would favour their establishment. He raised no objection that day against awaiting the outcome of the Hobart Council's decision. 
Next came his letter of the 24th July, stating that the Cabinet had decided to set up a panel outside the ambit of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. It was nothing short of an open insult to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to intimate he proposed to act that evening in setting up the panel. He had at no time suggested or discussed an alternative scheme to that suggested by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. This communication was the first and only intimation to us of his desire to establish a different panel. The Prime Minister stands condemned for his attempt to stampede the invited unions to constitute a panel by inferring that two representatives of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions would be members of the proposed panel. 
I think that I have read enough to indicate that, for all practical purposes, the Prime Minister had agreed with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions and that the panel should he appointed on the basis of the proposals contained in the statement which I have just read. Apparently something happened to cause the Prime Minister to change his mind. All that I can suggest is that after he had practically agreed to the proposal made by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, he had consultation with certain people, and the outcome was his letter of the 24th July, lt seems to me that it was suggested to him that he should do as he had done previously with respect to the appointment of the State boards of management in connexion with the production of munitions. In answer to a question asked by  Mr. Rosevear  in the House of Representatives, the Prime Minister said that the names of the representatives of the trade- union movement had been recommended in the first place by members of the State Munitions Committees of Management. On each  of  these are representatives of employers and permanent officials. Subsequently, the names of representatives of the trade union movement were added to the committees. It appears to me that it was suggested to the Prime Minister that he should appoint a central trade union advisory panel on the same basis. That meant that representatives of the trade union movement would not be nominated directly by the movement itself but by certain employers' organizations, thus excluding representation direct from the factories through subsidiary panels to the major panel which would be able to deal in a proper manner with any dispute that arose. No such machinery is now provided because of the division in the trade union movement, as a result of which certain unions have been denied the right of representation. Our scheme provided for the representation of all trade unions. The State munitions boards which have been appointed did not make that provision.  Mr. P.  J. Clarey, M.L.C., is the representative of the trade union movement in. Victoria. Other members are  Sir Alexander  Stewart, who is  chairman, Mr. N.  Harris and  Mr. C.  Ruwolt. When  Mr. Clarey  was invited to become a member of the board, he consulted the trade union movement and informed the executive of the Trades Hall Council that he would place the matter in their hands. If the council endorsed his appointment he would accept the position. That was done. I emphasize that all through the negotiations we did all that was humanly possible to meet the Prime Minister. 
The letter of the 14th June, which I have read, is on the file. 
-It shows that the Prime Minister practically agreed to our proposal, and that we cannot place much reliance on the word of the right honorable gentleman. 
It would seem that even when an undertaking is given in writing in clear and precise terms we cannot safely take it for granted. In consequence of what has happened in connexion with the appointment of this panel, the Government is more suspect than ever, and the smooth running of industry which would have been achieved had our proposal been accepted, will not now be possible to the same extent as if the Prime Minister had dealt honestly and fairly with us. 
Order ! The honorable senator must not accuse the Prime Minister of dishonesty. 
I may, however, say that this development did not come as a surprise to me, because I know that the Government would prefer to be complete master of the situation. It would prefer that the unions should be subject to its will. 
That is the policy of this Government and it does its best to give effect to it. But I would remind the Senate that the trade union movement also has a policy in respect of this matter, and I submit that its views are entitled to consideration. I go farther and say that unless its views are considered on their merits and by men who will honour their promises, the very trouble which we are told this Government seeks to avoid will undoubtedly arise. I make this protest at this late hour, not in a spirit of vindictiveness, but in the hope that an effort will be made to correct the position, so that the Government will have behind it the full support of the trade unions through their representatives on the panels. 
We discussed the proposals from every point of view, and I assume that, subsequently, the Prime Minister's secretary conferred with the right honorable gentleman about' what was to be done. We hoped right up to the 24th July that everything was plain sailing, and that at least we would have a workable system of panels, appointed on a basis that would have the endorsement of both the Government and the trade union movement. Of course, this development is no new experience with this Government. It issues regulations one day and backs down &lt;m the next day. If the Government treats the general public in this way, we cannot expect it to act much differently towards the trade union movement. 
I assure  Senator Allan  MacDonald that his representations with respect to the price paid to gold producers will be brought under the notice of my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender),  and that I shall endeavour to obtain the information which he seeks. 
 in reply  - I am sure that honorable senators resent the attack made by  .Senator Cameron  upon the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies).  I think that we all appreciate the fact that, if there is one problem we arc up against, it is that of providing munitions for our soldiers who are risking their lives. The people of this country owe everything to the Prime Minister for the work that he has done in respect of the munitions drive.  His  attitude to the members of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions and the trade unionists has been most tolerant, and it ill became the- honorable senator to make the statements to which he gave expression to-night. I do not propose to reply to them in detail ; I shall refer them to the Prime Minister. I recall the record of the honorable senator in the last war, and the statements made by him in Melbourne when the Prime Minister was appealing to members of the Labour party to sink political differences, and to join with him in doing everything possible to win this war, knowing that the Mother Country was in extreme peril.  Senator Cameron,  who was selected to discuss those matters, remarked to his fellow delegates, according to a statement which appeared in the press* that what the Prime Minister had said was " eyewash ". While men of  Senator Cameron's  type are negotiating with the Government, we shall not make the headway desired in the production of munitions. Political parasites like the honorable senator do more than anything else to hinder the war effort. 
I withdraw the comment,  in  view of the objection taken to  it.  If thereis one thing of which we all are proud in these difficult days,  it is  the attitude of the trade unionists of this country.  Senator Cameron  said that they are all right in their hearts, but not in their heads. I contend that the honorable senator is neither right  in  the heart nor right  in  the head. The genuine trade unionists, in this war as in the last war, are prepared to a man to stand behind the Government. It  ill  becomes the honorable senator to attempt to make political capital because he happens to be a member of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions. 
The matters raised by other honorable senators will receive the consideration that they deserve. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Representations have been made to me by rifle clubs in South Australia, which complain that they are unable to get ammunition for their members. Can the Minister for the Army inform me when ammunition will be made available to such clubs? 
As the honorable senator no doubt is aware, rifle clubs throughout Australia have for some time been unable to get ammunition either by purchase or by allotment. Although the output of small arms ammunition has increased considerably during the last twelve months, it is necessary to build up a reserve, and, until that has been done, I am afraid that further supplies cannot be made available to rifle clubs. It is hoped that at no distant date the reserves will be considered sufficient to enable the needs of rifle clubs to be supplied. 
 by leave  - On behalf, and at the request, of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, I desire to bring under the notice of the Senate the difficulty that has arisen from the expansion of the power to make regulations under the National Security Act. The committee, in its fourth report, drew attention to the principles it observed in considering the regulations. 
They are as follows :  - 
Regulations must be in accordance with the statute under which they are made; 
They should not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties ; 
They should not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions; and 
They should be concerned with administrative detail and should not amount to substantive legislation, which is more properly a matter for parliamentary enactment. 
The volume and complexity of regulations referred to the committee are such that, under the principles outlined, it is impossible without further skilled assistance to give adequate consideration to the regulations. The committee has communicated with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  with a view to some method being adopted which will facilitate the work of the committee, and he has indicated that he will have to have a Cabinet decision in regard to the proposals submitted by the committee. Meanwhile, the committee thought it desirable that the Senate should be apprised of the position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate who prepared the information for the 'Commerce' 
Department as to the estimated potato crop for the year 1940? 
What was the estimate for each State? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
The original estimates were based on information supplied by State Ministers of Agriculture at a meeting in Canberra in April. Later figures were supplied by the Departments of Agriculture in the various States, and the reports were confirmed by growers' representatives on the Federal Potato Advisory Committee. 
The estimate for each State is - 

<graphic href="164332194008220_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

I wish to refer to the case  of  Captain T. P. Conway, which was the subject of a report and recommendation by a select committee of the Senate. 

 -(Senator James McLachlan). - I do not see any item provided in the schedule under which it would be appropriate to discuss that subject. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of External Affairs, ?2,970; Department of the Treasury, ?141,330; AttorneyGeneral's Department, ?34,460; and Department of the Interior, ?108,590 - agreedto. 
Departmentofcivil Aviation. 

 Proposed vote, ?79,500. 
I wish to direct the attention of the committee to certain aspects of the proposed petrol rationing scheme. 
One of the reasons that have been given for the introduction of petrol rationing is that large quantities of petrol are required for aviation purposes. 
It mightbe appropriate for the honorable senator to discuss that subject when the proposed vote for the Department of Supply and Development is under consideration. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of Trade and Customs, ?111,690; Department of Health, ?22,310; Department of Commerce, ?80,170; Miscellaneous Services, ?26,640; War Services (1914-18), ?217,930; Department of Defence Coordination, ?21,980; and Department of the Navy, ?509,740- agreed to. 
Department of the Army. 

 Proposed vote, ?589,260. 
I direct attention to the failure of the Government, so far, to give effect to a recommendation by a select committee of the Senate that Captain T. P. Conway should receive an  ex gratia  payment of ?100. The details of this case are not new to honorable senators. The select committee appointed to deal with it took a good deal of evidence and made a recommendation which the Senate adopted on the voices. Some time afterwards I met the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  as he was leaving a taxi-cab in Martinplace, Sydney, and he said to me, " I am sorry in regard to that cheque for Conway. I have overlooked the matter. I shall send the cheque out this afternoon." I sent Conway a telegram telling him that he could expect a cheque for ?100 the next day. That was twelve months ago, and the cheque has not yet been sent to him. Conway attempted to enlist in any capacity at the outbreak of the war, but the officials at Victoria Barracks refused to accept his services.  When the call-up was made for the Australian Imperial Force he was one of the first to offer for service overseas. When his services in that capacity were not accepted he made an application to serve in connexion with the Canteen Fund, but again his offer was rejected.  He was  told that he could not be enrolled as he was more than 60 years of age. This man has had a record of service which, in my opinion, entitles him to better treatment than he has received from the Government. It is disgraceful that the decision of the Senate that he should be paid an amount of £100 in conformity with the terms of the report of the select committee has been ignored. Men who are prepared to do their utmost to assist in the nation's war effort should not be treated in that way. Those who serve on the home front in order to maintain the forces overseas are rendering a very valuable service to the nation, and it is regrettable that persons anxious and qualified to serve in these capacities are denied the opportunity to do so. The Minister for the Army  (Senator McBride)  should use his influence with the Government to see that the recommended payment to Conway is made without further delay. I am confident that when the Treasurer spoke to me in Martin-place on this subject he intended to send the cheque forthwith. Apparently, influence was brought to bear in some direction to prevent that course from being taken. I am quite sure that Conway is carrying around with him, from day to day and from place to place, the telegram that I sent to him. 
He thinks that I fooled him. Honorable senators should not be placed in such an invidious position. It may be good political propaganda to act in this way but I am certain that the people at large do not stand for it. The Minister for the Army should not leave the matter where it is. Certainly Conway and his friends do not intend to do so. 
I wish now to refer to a letter sent on the 17th August by the Minister for the Army to the honorable member for Lang  (Mr. Mulcahy)  concerning the case of Lance-Corpora 1 H. W. Mulliner, of 55/53rd Battalion, who died  at the Prince of Wales Hospital, Sydney^ on the 12th February, 1940, as the result of injuries sustained on military duty, for I consider that a grave injustice has been clone. Lance-Corporal Mulliner was obliged, by reason of the provisions of an act of Parliament, and irrespective of his own desires in the matter, to enter camp for compulsory military training, with a group of young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty years. The Government called him up for service and it should accept responsibility for what happened to him while he was on duty. Lance-Corporal Mulliner's parents were formerly in comfortable circumstances, as that term is understood among the working class, but they were very seriously hit by the depression. When their son left school he was unable to obtain any permanent employment and was working only intermittently up to the time when he was called up for military service. The letter sent by the Minister for the Army to  Mr. Mulcahy  stated - 
This case has been made the subject of full inquiry since your representations were made, but information, obtained as a result of close investigation, does not indicate that the parents of the deceased soldier were substantially dependent upon his earnings. Inquiry lias, in fact, elicited the information that the deceased soldier, prior to taking up duty with the military forces, had no permanent employment, but did odd jobs which enabled him to make a small weekly payment to his mother towards his keep. 
It was not Mulliner's fault, but the fault of the system under which we live, that his previous employment had been intermittent. He was one of hundreds of thousands of young men for whom employment was not available, and, therefore, the Minister should not penalize the parents for the fact that their son was not able to obtain regular employment. The letter from the Minister continued - 
The Defence Act does not authorize payment of compensation to the parents of a deceased member of the Militia Forces. My department, realizes, however, that the death of Lance-Corporal Mulliner would be a very serious blow to his parents, and the approval of the Treasurer has been sought and obtained for the making of a solatium payment of £50 which, it is felt, will be sufficient to cover any actual out-of-pocket expenses which may have been incurred by the parents, and which will, I hope, be accepted by them as a gesture of sympathy from the Commonwealth Government. 
I do not blame the Minister for the Army for assessing at £50 the value of that young man's life, for I believe that he signed what was placed before him without being fully aware of the contents of the letter. I do not believe that the Minister would be so callous as knowingly to send such a letter to an honorable member of this Parliament to be forwarded by him to the mother of a son who had lost his life while serving his country. If the value of £50 placed on the life of the young man was based on the fact that his employment had been intermittent, I suppose that no payment at all would have been agreed to if he had been totally unemployed before engaging in military duties. The value placed on this young man's life stands out in contrast to the compensation paid under the New South Wales law for injuries received by workers in the performance of their duties. In that State as much as £80 is paid as compensation for the loss of a finger; the loss of two fingers entitles the injured worker to £150. This young man was taken from his home by the Government and placed in a new environment. While carrying out duties imposed on him by the Government he received injuries which resulted in his death. The Commonwealth is not entitled to say that, because the boy had been only intermittently employed previously, a payment of £50 to his parents to cover outofpocket expenses discharges its obligations. Old-age pensioners are entitled to possess £50 in order to meet their funeral expenses. The Minister should make it clear that the state of affairs revealed by this incident shall not continue. A soldier who loses his life while being trained for the defence of his country should be paid the same compensation as would be paid to any worker in a government department who loses his life as the result of injuries received while on duty. 
 I wish to make some reference to the Conway case, which has already been mentioned this morning. There is now much more at stake than when this matter was last raised in this chamber. I knew Captain Conway very well for a number of years, and I know the history of his case. I think that he was badly treated, and is entitled to compensation for having been unjustly deprived of advancement in the Service. Now, the strength of his claim - and I believe that his claim was just all the time - is greater than ever. I did my part to bring about the appointment of the select committee which, after considering Conway's case, came to certain conclusions and made a definite recommendation. If after a select committee appointed by the Senate makes a recommendation which is adopted unanimously by the Senate, that decision can be set aside by some departmental jugglery, we cannot deny that we are living under a form of fascism which is contrary to Australian sentiment, and will not be tolerated by the Opposition. What remedy is open to the Opposition I am unable to say, but the fact remains that the Senate decided that £100 should be paid to Conway. Have things come to such a pass that a contractual obligation entered into between an individual citizen and the Government can be set aside, not by any re-submission of the case to the Senate, or even to the select committee but merely because somebody will not give effect to it? If so, there is something radically wrong. The £100 should be paid to Captain Conway if justice is to be done and our democratic institutions vindicated. As I have said, I do not know what we can do about the matter; we cannot make a request or move an amendment. We can only express our strong disapproval of the stand taken by the Government. If after the appeal to the electors, a Labour government comes into power, Captain Conway will quickly be paid the £100 which this Senate decided should be paid to him. 
 I was a member of the select committee which dealt with the Conway case. I have always had considerable sympathy with Captain Conway, for, as I have said before in this chamber, I believe that he is suffering from a sense of grievance which he has nursed for many years until it has reached undue proportions. 
Evidence was placed before the select committee that, after a previous inquiry by General Bruche, an order was made that certain statements on Conway's record should  be  expunged from the files; but instead of that instruction being carried out properly, all that was done was to rule a thin red line through the offending matter. The words which should have been entirely obliterated remained for every one who read the file to see, and were a constant reflection on Conway. The finding of the select committee did not, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  stated, amount to a contractual obligation. The committee recommended an  ex gratia  payment of  £100  to Conway. 
That recommendation did not place a legal obligation on any one. But there is another aspect of this case which the Leader of the Opposition appears to have missed.  I  have no doubt that  Senator Amour  sincerely believes what he told us this morning about his conversation with  the  Treasurer  (Mr. Spender),  but no such evidence came before the select committee. Assuming that the facts are as the honorable senator believes them to be, namely, that  Mr. Spender  gave to him a definite assurance that the cheque would be paid to Conway, and that the honorable senator therefore communicated that decision to Conway, I think that a new obligation rests on the Commonwealth Government to reconsider its decision to reject the recommendation for an  ex gratia  payment. If  Mr. Spender  corroborates the statement of  Senator Amour,  it Ls not right that the honorable senator should be placed in  the  false position in which the decision of the Government not to pay the money places him. 

 Senator ERASER  (Western Australia) f  11.43]. -  As a member of the select committee which, after an exhaustive inquiry, recommended the payment of  £100  to Captain Conway, I am astonished that the Government has failed to give effect to the decision of the Senate, which endorsed the committee's recommendation. I think that  Senator Abbott  will agree with me that every member of  the  select committee thought that if  the  Senate endorsed its recommendation,  the 
Government would make an  ex gratia  payment to Captain Conway. I did  not  have an opportunity to support  the  recommendation of the select committee when it was considered by  the Senate,  but  I  am convinced that  a great wrong  has been done to Captain Conway. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  Captain  Conway is willing to  accept an  ex gratia  payment of  £100. The  Government has no right to override the decision of the Senate in  this matter.  To-day, I heard for the  first time  that the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  had intimated to  Senator Amour  that the payment would be made. I had thought that the money had been paid  to  Captain Conway. I am definitely of the opinion that the claim is justified.  On  more than one occasion  Captain  Conway established his claim.  He was  wronged, not only because of  the position  in which he was placed, but  also  because of statements made in this Parliament and published in the press that he had not obtained his majority, whereas, in fact, he had. Those statements were very unfair. Let us consider  for a moment the  position of Captain Conway in relation to the present war. As  Senator Amour  said, Captain Conway, because  of  his military experience, should have been asked to make his services available for war work. Instead, however, when he volunteered his services they were refused, presumably because from time to time he had caused the Government and the Defence Department embarrassment and for that reason they  did not  want anything to do with him. 
Honorable  senators  may place their own interpretation upon the refusal by the military authorities to accept the services of Captain Conway, despite his valuable experience. 
I  suppose he would be about  60. 
In  Western  Australia,  the defence authorities have appointed to administrative positions in  the Army, Navy and Intelligence Departments men who have never served in the defence services, and it is noticeable that the people so appointed belong to a political party different from that to which I belong. 
I defy contradiction of that statement. I shall give the names of some of these people. For instance, an administrative position was given to a  Mr. Isaacson,  who at one time was  chairman  of the Nationalist party in Western Australia. Then there is  Major Parker,  M.L.C., a barrister and solicitor, who has been appointed to the Intelligence Department. There are also many others whom I could name. 
Has Gordon Hack had any military experience? 
I am surprised to hear the Minister say that. This man u in charge of the feeding of the troops, and holds the rank of captain; yet the Minister says that he has not a military job. 
I know that honorable senators opposite do not like to hear of these things, but on this occasion they have asked for what they are getting. 
I am telling the truth, and I think the Minister's remark should be withdrawn. I am not alone in holding these opinions, because the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia in Western Australia has some interesting information with regard to the matter. Many capable soldiers who fought in the last war are unemployed to-day, whereas they could be doing useful jobs, and would be doing them were not so many positions filled by political appointees. I make that definite charge. 
I am not endeavouring to make an election speech. The Leader of the Government asked for this and I am giving it to him. I repeat that many military positions could have been more capably filled by returned soldiers who to-day have no jobs, instead of by inexperienced men whose appointments have been made largely for political reasons. 
It is not assumption. 
I am prepared to stand by whatever statements I make. 
I should like to point out to honorable senators that two of the gentlemen in Western Australia whom  Senator Fraser  has named as having been appointed to administrative positions for political reasons enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force in 1914, and saw service throughout the last war.  Major Parker  was in the same brigade of artillery as I was in 1914. He was decorated with the Distinguished Service Order by the King, and was considered one of the best artillery officers in our brigade.  Major Isaacson  saw extensive service in Palestine with the Army Service Corps and other units. He enlisted in the ranks early in the war and rose to the rank of major; his promotion was earned in the field. We have no interest in political views when appointments to military positions in the various war departments are being considered, and I do not think that statements such as were made by  Senator Fraser  should be brought into a discussion of our defence administration. No doubt had I successfully applied for a position in the military organization, I should have been charged with having received a political appointment. Such reflections should not be made. 
I have never met Captain Conway, but he has written to me on several occasions outlining his claim for some recognition by the Government. With others I have interviewed the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  with regard to the recommendation of the select committee of this chamber, and I had the impression that  Mr. Spender  was in favour of the payment recommended. But apart altogether from that, the fact remains that, after a protracted and impartial inquiry, members of this chamber made a recommendation which the Senate adopted, and I resent that recommendation being ignored. Even had the recommendation been wrong, recognition should have been given by the .Government to the decision of the Senate. 
I had not intended to speak on this matter but for the remarks made by  Senator Allan  MacDonald with regard to defence appointments in Western Australia. I point out that  Major Parker  holds three jobs : he is a solicitor, a member of Parliament, and, in addition, now holds a military appointment. I agree with  Senator Eraser  that there are many unemployed ex-soldiers who could ably fill these jobs. In any case, why have not these gentlemen offered their services without remuneration? I have offered my services, in any part of Australia, and I do not see why others cannot do likewise. 
I have not yet received an . appointment. My services would have been accepted by now had it not been for the air accident in which the former Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  was killed. I think that I could do a job just as well as  Major Parker  or  Major Isaacson.  I repeat that the Government should give defence positions to qualified men who have no jobs at all at present. Reference to  Hansard  will show that in the State Parliament I consistently advocated, " One man one job ". 
I could easily find two men. 
I do not agree. I do not suggest, as  Senator Fraser  did, that the appointments have been made purely for political purposes, but there are other men in Western Australia with the same political views as the two gentlemen now holding the positions who are more entitled to the jobs. I know one man who would be quite capable of holding a position, but he has not been given an opportunity to serve. I hope that in future the Government will appoint to military positions qualified men who at present have no jobs at all. 
As a member of the select committee which investigated the case of Captain Conway, I consider that our recommendation should have been acted upon. My opinion is that Captain Conway should have been paid at least £500, and when the matter was discussed by the committee, I was one of those who agreed to recommend £100 as the minimum amount that should be paid. I could quite understand the Government raising an objection had the select committee recommended the payment of an exorbitant sum., but :it recommended only a paltry £.100. Now, the Government not only refuses to honour that recommendation, but also remains silent on the matter, and apparently does not consider the Senate worthy of receiving reasons for the ignoring of the recommendation. That is a very paltry attitude. I consider that the committee dealt very fairly with the Government, and in no way attempted to take undue advantage of the position by recommending an exorbitant sum. In these circumstances, it is fair to expect the Government to pay the amount recommended. If the Government considers that the select committee did something which it had no right to do, surely it is due to honorable senators that reasons for the Government's, decision should be made known. If the Government persists in its refusal to pay the money, some explanation should be forthcoming. Any reasons advanced by the Government will be considered on their merits. It is possible that the Government has good reasons for its attitude, but, on the other hand, it may have no reason at all. I repeat that wc  arc entitled to some information on the matter. 
.- As chairman of the select committee, I was very disappointed that our recommendation was not given effect. I was also disappointed that no reason was given for ignoring our recommendation. Unofficially, I was informed that the reason for not making the payment was that were Captain Conway paid, every Tom, Dick and Harry with a small grievance would seek the appointment of a select committee in order to obtain some compensation.Theanswerwhich Igavetomyinformantswas."Byall meansletushavetheseinquiriesand dealwiththemontheirmerits".Itrust thatevenatthislatestageCabinetwill reconsideritsdecision,andwillpayto Captain Conway the sum recommended. 
I am not greatly interested in the merits or demerits of this case, but I was impressed with the statement of  Senator Collings  that a certain decision had been reached by the Senate on the recommendation of a select committee and that that decision had been ignored by the Government. It seems to me that, if the Government had considered the case beforehand, it should not have appointed a committee to go into it further. 
The Government had a majority in the Senate, and that,majorityagreedtotheappointment ofthecommittee.Idonotknowwhether thematterwenttoavote,butthe Government supporters agreed to the proposal, and they had a majority on the committee. Nevertheless, after the committee had made a certain recommendation, the Government brushed it aside. I regret that the Government has bungled the matter in this way. 
.- The Conway case, which was raised by  Senator Amour,  is one of long standing. It has been brought up for consideration at various times during the regime of governments of varying political colours. Probably the most caustic expressions uttered against Captain Conway were those of a Labour Minister. I do not say that in any spiteful way, but merely to indicate that this matter has not been decided on party lines. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has stated that, in his opinion, the Government was under contract to pay the amount recommended by the committee. The position is, of course, that the Senate, and not the Government, decided to appoint a committee to inquire into the case. The Government took no responsibility for any decision which the committee might reach. The committee examined all the papers, and obtained all the information that was available, but even then was unable to say that an injury had been done to this man, and that he was entitled to compensation. 
I am speaking of what the committee did. The committee, therefore, recommended to the Government that an  ex gratia  payment be made. 
I am sorry if I have unwittingly misrepresented the position. I remind honorable senators, however, that the Government is handling not its own money, hut that of the taxpayers, and, therefore, cannot make payments without full justification. 
That does not apply to this Government. Any payments made by the Government should be justifiable on legal grounds. When the recommendation of the committee came before the Government, further consideration was given to the case, and the evidence was reviewed. The Government recognized that there was no legal justification for paying this sum of £100, and it decided that, in the circumstances, the money should not be paid. 
I am not prepared to give that undertaking. 
I come now to Mulliner's case. I have had some acquaintance with this case, and I take full responsibility for what has been done. I have no desire to shelter behind anybody, or to evade responsibility for the sending of the letter referred to. Whilst we as individuals, or senators, or even members of the Cabinet, have undoubtedly every sympathy with Mulliner's parents, the fact remains that they have no legal claim for compensation. We may say that the act is bad, and should be amended, but the Minister is restricted by the act and the legal powers conferred under it. Nothing in the Repatriation Act or in the Defence Act gives power to pay compensation in a case of this kind. 
I do not propose to argue that point now. We all recognize that this is a very hard case, and that it does not seem right that a man who is injured while serving his country in the Militia should not be entitled to compensation, or that his next of kin should not be entitled to compensation in the event of his death. The law, however, is as I have stated, but the department recommended, as is frequently done in cases of this sort, that a solatium payment be made. It is entirely incorrect to suggest that such a payment is in the nature of compensation. 
That is so, but this is not a compensation payment; it is made to recoup the parents for the expenses incurred by them in connexion with this unfortunate incident. I agree with honorable senators that it might be advisable to review the act with a view to liberalizing its provisions. 

 Senator Fraser criticized the manner in which appointments were made to positions in the defence forces, and he did so in a way which showed that passion and prejudice, rather than reason, lay behind his utterances. It must be realized that, if we are to conduct the Department of the Army, or of the Navy, in a proper way, we must have qualified men in responsible positions. I can assure honorable senators that, in the appointment of men to these positions, no account is taken of their political affiliations. Such appointments are not made by the Government, but by other constituted bodies, and the Government carefully refrains from trying to exert any influence in respect of them. I hope that the statement of  Senator Fraser  does not represent the views of the party to which he belongs. The very fact that he suspects the use of political influence in defence appointments suggests that, were he in a position to do so, he would not hesitate to do the same. 
Any man who would make the statement that  Senator Fraser  did is the very man who would use his power, if he possessed it, to do the very same thing, and it would be a bad day for this country if a practice of that kind were allowed to creep into the administration of public affairs. It is hardly necessary to assure honorable senators that politics are not taken into consideration in the making of appointments of this kind, but only the capacity of the man appointed to do the job. 
I assure the Minister for the Army  (Senator McBride)  that the opinions which I expressed are held, not only by myself, but also by the executives of responsible bodies, and have been freely published in the press under the name of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia in Western Australia. The league has complained of the appointment to military positions of men who already hold other employment, while other men just as qualified for the positions remain idle. Therefore, it is evident that these charges arc not a mere concoction of my own, and I repeat them notwithstanding what has been said by the Minister. 
I do not say that the Government should appoint men who are not qualified, but neither should it  single out for preferment men who are already drawing salaries in other positions. 
Two wrongs do not make a right. As a matter of fact, I am grateful for that interjection. The honorable senator will admit that whenever any one with Labour sympathies is appointed by a Labour government to a public position in Western Australia, the United Australia party press in that State never fails to draw attention to the appointee's political affiliations and to hold up such appointments as evidence that Labour governments apply the principle of "spoils to the victor ". To 'the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  I suggest that the sooner he discontinues his habit of making cheap gibes at the expense of honorable senators on this side, the better it will be for himself. He asked, for instance, what X did in the last war. 
I merely take this opportunity to inform the Leader of the Senate that I shall have an effective reply to any cheap gibe which he may make at my expense. 
 In defending the Government's refusal to compensate Captain T. P. Conway, the Minister laid emphasis on the fact that a Labour Minister was responsible for the case in the first place. It is true that  Mr. Chifley,  when Minister for Defence, wrote the letter to  Mr. George  Buckland, an official of the Australian Workers Union, as the result of which General .Bruche held his inquiry. It was mainly on the basis of that letter that the select committee recommended an  ex gratia  payment of £100 to Conway. Usually an official file contains only  a  single copy of a document, but this particular file contained four copies of this letter, so that any one who perused the file could not miss it. That circumstance greatly influenced the select committee  in  coming to its conclusion that an injury had been done to Conway. The Minister says that the Government dealt with the matter fully. Why did the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  tell me that he would make this  ex gratia  payment of £100 to 
Conway? The Minister for the Army  (Senator McBride)  said that nothing further could be done in respect of the Mulliner case. The inquiry into this case commenced in April. Under the National Security Act the Government may do practically anything, and it has ample power to deal sympathetically with the Mulliner case and other cases of trainees who have met their death in military camps, and to treat their relatives generously. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Department of Air, £431,200- agreed to. 
Department  os  Supply and Development. 

 Proposed vote, £21,000. 
 I wish to make a few observations concerning the Government's proposals for the rationing of petrol. 
In order to assist the Government by facilitating the passage of this measure I refrained from raising the subject on an earlier vote, when you,  Mr. Chairman,  informed me that I could discuss it when the proposed vote for the Department of Supply and Development was under consideration. 
As the Department of Supply and Development is charged with implementing the Government's proposals for the rationing of petrol, I submit that I am in order in discussing that subject on this vote. 
I respectfully submit,  Mr. Chairman,  that in view of the discussions which you have allowed in respect of the Conway and Mulliner cases, I am in order in discussing the subject of petrol rationing at this stage. 
.- Would not the item, " General expenses, £2,000 ", include expenditure incurred in the distribution of forms to petrolusers in connexion with the proposed scheme to ration petrol? 
I should like to know, also, whether those forms which were not returned are still usable. I received one of them, but I have not yet filled it in. 
Has the Government decided to go ahead with petrol rationing? In view of its vacillation on the subject, we can only hope that it has decided to do so. The Minister for Supply and Development  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  announced that a certain decision had been arrived at, and considerable expense was incurred in the issue of forms to petrol users. Subsequently, however, the Government denied that it had come to the decision made public by the Minister. 
I am asking for certain information on the matter, and am simply prefacing my inquiry with a few general remarks in order to enable the Minister to furnish a clear reply. I should like to know whether, under the item " General expenses, £2,000 ", any sum is being provided for the payment of members of the Liquid Fuel Control Board. Recently two additional members were appointed to that body, which has now come to a decision on the subject of petrol rationing. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Department of Munitions. £91,080- agreed to. 
War Services (1939-40). 

 Proposed vote, £681,980. 
I should like to know whether the Government's proposals for the rationing of petrol are connected in any way with advice it has received from the Advisory Committee on Financial and Economic Policy, to which the sum of £260 is allocated under this vote. 
I submit that I am entitled to discuss petrol rationing on this proposed vote. 
The honorable senator may ask any questions, but he is not entitled to discuss it in a broad way. 
The honorable senator must withdraw that. I will not be accused by any one of gagging. 
If the honorable senator has any question to  ask  he may ask it. 
No! 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - Commonwealth Railways, £145,060 - agreed to. 
Postmaster-General's Department. 

 Proposed vote, £1,985,920. 
Is any provision made under the heading of the PostmasterGeneral's Department for the erection of a post office at Inglewood? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes- - Northern Territory, £49,450; Australian Capital Territory, £58,080; Papua, £7,360; Norfolk Island, £670; Refunds of Revenue, £200,000; Advance to the Treasurer, £1,000,000- agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 by leave  - Speaking on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate yesterday  Senator Cameron  made certain references to the formation of a trade unions advisory panel. Many of the honorable senator's facts were correct, but the statement was notable for its omissions. In the first place the negotiations with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions were protracted owing in a great measure to the fact that the council itself had no very positive ideas to put before the Government. Eventually, after interviews and consultations, the council was able to present a scheme along the lines suggested by the honorable senator. The scheme was placed before the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  who, though realizing that it was a cumbersome piece of machinery, nevertheless was prepared to adopt it specifically on the assumption that it would have the full support of the trade union movement. It became apparent at this stage of the negotiations that this full support was not forthcoming and the Prime Minister received intimations that several key unions would be unwilling to join the panel in the proposed form. 
Negotiations with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions had been based on the assumption that the panel would bc completely representative of all phases of trade unionism, and the Prime Minister's information gave an entirely different aspect to the picture. However, this was not all. When the Australasian Council of Trade Unions put up its own proposal to its own State bodies, the States of New South Wales and Queensland rejected it. The Prime Minister was not unaware of the fact that all bodies affiliated with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions would be bound by a decision of the majority of the States, and he was not unaware of the fact that if Tasmania decided to accept the scheme it would be binding on all Australian unions affiliated with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions; but when an effort is made to secure the co-operation and advice of the trade union movement, it would be an amazing thing for the Government to go ahead with a scheme which did not have the support of certain key unions necessary to the successf ul carrying out of the war programme and, iu addition, did not have the support of two States, one of which was the major industrial State of the Commonwealth. Before the formation of the panel, and arising out of certain conversations with the Prime Minister, key unions formulated a scheme which was comprehensive and which would assist Australia to the maximum in the prosecution of the war effort. The agreement of Tasmania to the scheme of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions could surely not be held sufficient to justify the Government in abandoning the support of essential branches of the trade union movement. 
The Prime Minister negotiated with the Australasian Council of Trade Unions over a long period. In these negotiations he has been very patient, and at all times the .basis of complete co-operation of the trade union movement was assumed. When this was not forthcoming the situation was entirely reversed. War was not going to stop while organizations settled their differences. Action was necessary and the Prime Minister acted with the support of major unions. Several invitations have been sent to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to join the panel and to send two representatives, whereas the major unions represented on the panel  have but. one representative each. In, view of the negotiations and the patient attitude adopted by the Prime Minister at all times, it is fantastic to maintain that he acted in any peremptory fashion or that lie ignored existing suggestions and organizations. At all subsequent times the Prime Minister has pressed the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to join the panel, and nothing would please him more than for the council to do so. 
The honorable senator would probably be interested in the following statement made by  Mr. Curtin  on Tuesday in the House of Representatives -  1 say parenthetically that the Prime Minister's difficulties in regard to the constitution of the panel are difficulties which any Prime Minister would experience' in Australia, because, as everybody  unows,  there is no complete unified organization of labour in Australia. . . . 
 I say to the Trade Union Movement and to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions that with the panel now existing I am quite satisfied. It is composed of men who are representative spokesmen, quite competent adequately to represent the Trade Union Movement. I should be glad if the Australasian Council of Trade Unions as a sort of greater entity of unionism of Australia would go into the panel as it already exists. 
If the Australasian Council of Trade Unions neglects to accept the appeals from the Prime Minister of the country and the Leader of the Opposition, I think I know what the judgment of the people of Australia will be. 

 .- by leave - I wish to say something on behalf of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, and especially  Senator Cameron.  The Minister is evidently not aware of the work that has been done by  Senator Cameron  over a long period of years in the interests of industrial peace in this country. In the position which he occupied before coming to the Senate, he was one of the outstandingly bitter opponents of direct action, and, more recently, he played the biggest part in the settlement of the coal strike at a time when the Government had failed to end what appeared to be the most serious hold-up of our war effort. With the honorable senator, I have been in numerous disputes. I know him in a a political sense, and I also know his attitude to Australia as an Australian, and I say that the hostility shown towards him during his speech yesterday was not warranted.  Senator Cameron  was a soldier in the last war. He is a man who has made his way in life with every possible handicap, a man of- outstanding capacity and at least as much sincerity as any other honorable senator. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  knew, when two States said that they would not join the panel, that that was not the last word. That was on the Friday. We knew that on the Monday Tasmania would agree and that the majority rule would prevail. The Prime Minister knew that, too, but he insisted on following a new course. Ministers must realize that unions cannot be got together in a week, or even a month. We have certain organizations such as State labour councils, on which the unions are represented ; they are milestones in the progress of the Labour movement. In this crisis the Labour movement has done yeoman service. It has even broken lifelong principles in order that the war effort might not be impaired. I speak to-day -  Senator Cameron  himself would not speak - in order to point out that there is no man, not even the honorable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr. Holloway),  who has done more effective, skilful, or loyal work in the interests of the working class of this country and of Australia itself than has  Senator Cameron.  Sitting suspended from  J 845 to  2 p.m. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The proposal embodied in this bill to amend section 9 of the High Commissioner Act 1909-1937 provides for an  alteration of procedure in connexion with, appointments to the staff of the High Commissioner's Office, London, consequent on the decision to grant permanent status to certain, officers of the staff. 
Section 9 of the act provides,  inter alia,  that the High Commissioner may appoint officers for the purpose of any duties in the execution of the act, and sub-section 3 of that section provides that every such appointment shall cease to have effect at the expiration of six months from the date of appointment, unless the the Governor-General shall in the meantime have confirmed the appointment. The section also provides that officers so appointed shall not be subject to the Commonwealth Public Service Act, but, subject to sub-section 3, shall be engaged for such periods, and shall be subject to such conditions, as are prescribed. 
Honorable senators will be aware that, in 1937, security of tenure, together with rights of superannuation, furlough, and other benefits, were extended to officers of the High Commissioner's staff whose duties were of a permanent nature. These privileges are not accorded to temporary employees in the High Commissioner's Office. They are also not granted under tho Commonwealth Public Service Act to temporary employees in Australia. 
Under sub-section 3 of section 9 of the act, it is necessary that action be taken to secure confirmation by the Governor-General of, not only appointments of a permanent nature, but also appointments of persons to perform work such as that of female office cleaners,  floor  polishers, window cleaners, &amp;c. The occupants of such positions are, however, regarded as temporary employees, and confirmation by the Governor-General of their appointments is considered to be unnecessary. Moreover, it is considered that confirmation by the 'GovernorGeneral of the appointment of persons engaged in a temporary capacity is likely to create a false impression an the minds of these appointees that such confirmation carries with it a degree of permanency which was never intended. 
Actually, confirmation by the GovernorGeneral does not of itself grant permanency of tenure to any officer, whether employed on duties of a permanent or temporary nature. Before permanent status can be accorded an officer, it is necessary, under sub-section 6 of section 9 of the act, that the Minister, on the recommendation of the High Commissioner, shall direct by notice in the  Commonwealth Gazette  that that officer shall be deemed to be an " employee " within the meaning of section 4 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1934. 
In order that there shall be no misunderstanding as to the particular officers of the High Commissioner's staff to whom permanent status has been given, it is considered that the necessity for obtaining confirmation by the GovernorGeneral of appointments of persons in a temporary capacity should be dispensed with. It is proposed, however, that appointments of officers to the permanent staff in London shall still be confirmed by the Governor-General ; but it is thought that such a provision is not now necessary in the act, and could more conveniently be provided by regulation. Control over expenditure on temporary employment at Australia House would still he maintained, as the funds required for such purposes must be appropriated by the Parliament. 
The practice observed in connexion with appointments to the staff of the High Commissioner's Office savours somewhat of delay and circumlocution, seeing that the appointment to temporary positions of employees such as cleaners and lift attendants cannot be confirmed until the matter has been referred to Canberra for the assent of the Governor-General. Therefore, the bill may be promptly passed as one that has been proved necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (High Commissioner may appoint officers). 
.- Am I right in assuming that this clause will apply only to such employees as office cleaners? Can the Minister give any information as to the proportion of Australians on the staff at Australia House? 
The clause applies only to the temporary employees to which reference has been made. Speaking from memory, I should say that seventeen or eighteen Australians are employed on the staff at Australia House, or about 20 per cent, of the total number of employees. 
Are there any permanent employees within the categories of officers mentioned? 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Six short bills validating tariff schedules which have been in operation for a considerable period are now to be submitted to honorable senators, but it is necessary to deal with each measure separately. The object of this measure is to ensure that the duties set out in the customs tariff resolutions of the 2nd and the 22nd May, and the 20th August, 1940, shall operate until the new Parliament assembles. The bill provides for their validation until the 21st February, 1941. It is not proposed, at this juncture, to discuss the tariff schedules item by item, but the new Parliament will have an opportunity to do that if it so desires. 
My remarks with regard to this bill will have application to the other short measures of a similar nature, with which we are about to deal. It would be most undesirable to dissolve the Parliament without ratifying the tariff measures introduced in the House of Representatives on the 2nd and the 22nd May, and the 20th August. If these validating measures were not passed, it would be possible for persons who have been paying the prescribed duties for a considerable time to take action against the Government for the refund of moneys so paid. That is an experience which befell a certain Government with which I was closely associated. The Opposition, therefore, will not delay the passage of these measures. Within six months of the meeting of the new Parliament they must come up for consideration in detail. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is incidental to the Customs Tariff Validation Bill and proposes to validate,until the 21st February, 1941, the exchange adjustment alterations made by the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Proposals of the 22nd May, 1940. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill provides for the validation of the collection of the protective duty imposed on lifting jacks of Canadian origin by Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Proposals of the 22nd May, 1940. The period of validation is the same as for the customs tariff proposals, namely, until the 21st February,1941. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on the 22nd May, 1940, provide for the imposition of a special duty on chewing gum and chewgum confectionery of New Zealand origin, and this bill seeks to validate the collection of duty thereunder until the 21st February, 1941. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now reada second time. 
This bill is introduced for the purpose of validating, until the 21st February, 1941, the collection of the special war duty imposed by the proposals of the 2nd May, 1940. The special war duty was imposed for war-timerevenue purposes. It is not possible to debate the proposals at this stage, and it is necessary to validate collections made thereunder in order to safeguard the revenue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The reasons for introducing this bill are similar to those stated in respect of the Customs Tariff Validation Bill. The excise tariff proposals covered by the bill are those introduced on the 2nd May, 1940, and the 20th August, 1940. The proposals of the 2nd May embody in- creased duties on petrol, and form a part of the Government's budget proposals. Those of the 20th August give effect to the Government's decision to grant protection to local producers of petrol and petrol substitutes from indigenous shale and coal. The period of validation is similar to that provided in the Customs Tariff Validation Bill, namely, six months. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
A very great deal might be said in this debate if we included in our survey this afternoon the whole of the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but that is neither essential nor desirable. This is a purely financial measure, and we must agree that, in the existing circumstances, the Government is doing the right thing. At a time when the activities of all government departments are being very much circumscribed owing to the alleged shortage of finance, we could not allow the Broadcasting Commission to go unscathed. On other occasions  1  have been somewhat critical of the commission. In this chamber I have said some things about it that have caused a flutter in the dovecote and brought to me some measure of undesired and unenviable notoriety. I acknowledge that the commission is doing a great job, but I object to that body being allowed to accumulate a considerable surplus that is not being used to the best advantage in the present national emergency. I hope that, as the Minister said in his concluding remarks, this new allocation of the commission's revenue from licencefees will not hamper its operations in any desirable channel. As was explained by the Minister, when the listeners' licencefee was 24s. the commission received 12s., but in view of the fact that the licencefee has been reduced to £1 ls., it seems only reasonable that the amount paid to the commission should also be reduced. I believe that a definite assurance was  given  in the House of Representatives  that  after the passage of this bill the listeners' licence-fee will be reduced to £1. From the standpoint of political decency,  this  measure should have been introduced twelve months ago, and it would  not  then appear as though the Government were holding out this measure as an electioneering bait. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber can view  that  aspect of the matter with perfect equanimity, because we know that we all shall be here when Parliament reassembles. In this instance the Government appears to be acting wisely, because there is no reason why an exceptionally large amount of money should be held in reserve. I am pleased to learn that some of  the  funds so held have been utilized in the interests of the nation. 
I support the bill, the object of which I understand is to reduce the amount to be paid to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In view of the fact that a number of honorable senators have asked the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Thorby)  to waive or reduce the licence-fee now paid by old-age pensioners, it would have been preferable to have made that concession instead of allowing an unnecessarily large reserve to accumulate. I understand that it is also proposed to reduce the listeners' licencefee from £1 ls. to £1. I suggest that the licence-fee could be still further reduced, and the fee paid by pensioners either waived or reduced substantially. 
The point raised by  Senator Amour  is worthy of support. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has been receiving more revenue than  it  actually requires. Recently a blind returned soldier asked me to make representations to the department on his behalf for a free listeners' licence, and when I approached the Postmaster-General the concession was granted. Relief should be afforded, particularly to blind returned soldiers. Throughout Australia there is a strong  conviction that the licence-fee could he reduced substantially without impairing the efficiency of the service. I trust that the suggestion made by  Senator Amour  will be considered seriously by the Government, and that relief in that direction will soon be afforded so that members of this Parliament will not be compelled to approach Ministers in an endeavour to obtain some relief in that respect. All blind persons in Australia should be granted a listeners' licence free of charge. 
A large proportion of the surplus which the Australian Broadcasting Commission has accumulated should be used to encourage Australian talent. It appears to be the policy of the commission to give preference to overseas talent rather than to Australian artists. Some time last year I directed attention to the enormous volume of American literature which was being dumped in Australia, and suggested that the quantity should be reduced so that Australian writers would receive some encouragement. I was pleased to learn that subsequently the Government issued regulations which were of considerable assistance in that respect. It should be the policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to encourage Australian singers as much as possible by subsidizing schools in which they could be trained, and in that way cultivate or encourage an Australian culture, which would be appreciated in Australia and also abroad. Australian artists should not be allowed to regard themselves as inferior to English or Italian artists. The latent talents which I am sure every healthy Australian possesses should be developed. Australian song and verse are appreciated overseas.  Mr. J.  J. Simons, who has conducted numerous overseas tours of the Young Australian League, has said that the Australian songs, sung by the Australian boys, particularly on their American tours, have been appreciated by American audiences. As ample money is available, expenditure should be ..incurred to encourage Australian artists whose work would be appreciated by Australian listeners. We hear too many stupid American songs. Beautiful operatic selections are always appreciated. 
I suppose that stupid songs would appeal to the honorable senator, but they do not appeal to me. Some of the songs I hear over the air are not in any way attractive, enlightening or invigorating and have no appeal to national sentiment. They may appeal to the primitive instincts which are so prominently displayed by some honorable senators opposite. I trust that the suggestion I have made will receive the sympathetic consideration of the commission. 
I support the bill. I take this opportunity to refer to the frequency of the interruptions in overseas news relayed from 3AR Melbourne to Perth. These broadcasts which come to Western Australia over a landline between Melbourne and Perth arc continually interrupted by weird noises which I understand are caused by induction. Listeners hear all kinds of scrappy interstate telephone conversations, and quite a volume of Morse signals and other interruptions which are particularly irritating. When I asked whether these interruptions could be rectified I was informed that it is a technical matter; but there must be some way of overcoming the difficulty. Most persons are very anxious to hear the overseas news when it is relayed, and it is most unfortunate that so many interruptions occur. If something could be done mechanically to improve the service to Western Australia the department would be conferring a great benefit on the people of that State. Often, at the conclusion of an erratic broadcast, the announcer apologizes for the poor reception, briefly explaining that it is due to circumstances over which the Australian Broadcasting Commission has no control. It is known, however, that the circumstances are within the control of the technical branch of the PostmasterGeneral's Department. This defect should be rectified, because the majority of listeners cannot afford short-wave sets. When they await, perhaps hourly, news of the latest war developments, it is most irritating and disappointing to them to find that the broadcasts are spoiled by poor reception. 
 in reply.  - I appreciate the manner in which this measure has been accepted by honorable senators. The representations which have been made for a reduction of the listeners' licence-fee to pensioners will be brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Thorby).  A blind person is given a free licence, provided his application is supported by a medical certificate as to his disability. As I said in my second-reading speech, the commission will in the future be obliged, owing to conditions overseas, to rely to a greater degree upon the services of Australian artists. After all, it is the job of the commission to provide a service which will meet with the approval of listeners generally. It is not for us, therefore, to instruct it as to the kinds of programmes it should provide. Indeed, fromthe inception, of the commission, ample evidence has been available that it is best capable of judging what programmes are most popular with listeners. I agree entirely with  Senator Cameron  that we should encourage Australian artists. The commission is very eager to do so, and has gone out of its way to employ as many Australian artists as possible. The best evidence that the commission's programmes are giving satisfaction to listeners is the fact that the number of listeners' licences has increased from 369,945 in 1932, when the commission was established, to 1,212,581 at the present time. Those figures speak for themselves. 
In reply to  Senator Allan  MacDonald, 1 am informed that the cause of the poor reception in Western Australia is well known to the Postmaster-General's Department. It is due to the fact that the wires to Western Australia are not of sufficient quality to ensure perfect transmission. Not only has the department had this matter under consideration for a considerable time, but also it is eager to secure the money necessary to enable it to supplement the existing land lines. The cost is estimated at £200,000, but, so far, no money has been allocated for this purpose. I assure honorable senators that this matter will be attended to so soon as the necessary money is made available for the purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is framed to provide benefits, payable from public funds, for Australian mariners employed in ships registered in Australia, and trading between a port of a State or Territory of the Commonwealth and any other port, those employed on a lighthouse tender or pilot ship of the Commonwealth or of a State, and also for pilots when on pilot duty. 
The bill follows, in general principle, the present war-time legislation of the United Kingdom, but it has been considered advisable to modify certain of the provisions of the British measure in order to bring, them into line with Australian conditions, and particularly with the benefits under the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act. Under that act, the rate of pension is based on the soldier's rate of pay, whereas under the British scheme the rank of the man determines his rate of pension. 
The benefits provided fall under three headings - 
Pensions to the mariner or his dependants, or both where applicable, if the mariner is killed or incapacitated by war injury received in the course of his employment ; 
Allowances for detention payable to a mariner and bis dependants, if any, for the period of his detention if he is captured by the enemy; and 
Compensation to the mariner for effects which may be lost or damaged through enemy action. 
Provision is made for the parts of the bill covering pensions and detention allowances being administered, under the Minister responsible for the act, by the Repatriation Commission' which has the necessary machinery and staff of trained officers. The part relating to compensation for lost or damaged effects will, however, be administered by the Department of Commerce, through the superintendents at the Mercantile Marine Offices already established at the principal ports of the Commonwealth. By the arrangements thus to be made, the expense of setting up new machinery for the operation of all parts of the act will be obviated. 
War injury is defined in clause 3 of the bill, and covers injuries arising out of offensive action by the enemy, and defensive measures against such action. It also includes any physical injury caused by. or in consequence of, capture by the enemy ; action taken, for example by gunfire, if a ship is threatened by a submarine  or  bomber and, in addition, an injury is covered if it is sustained during routine drills carried out in order to teach the crew the use of weapons. Pensions are allowable only when death or incapacity is the direct result of a war injury, this being one of the basic principles of the British scheme. 
When the death of an Australian mariner is attributable to a war injury, a pension is payable to his widow, as shown in column 2 of the First Schedule, the rate of pension being governed by the 
Tate  of pay of the Australian mariner at the date of the injury which results in his death. The rates, which range from £2 7s.  to  £6 fortnightly, . are similar to those paid under the Repatriation Act. When the pension to the widow is less than £4 4s. a. fortnight, however, and there are dependent children, or when circumstances are such that an increase beyond the scheduled rate would be justified, provision is made for a pension at a rate not exceeding £4 4s. a fortnight being granted. 
The allowance for dependent children under the age of sixteen years is 15s. a fortnight. 
Dependants, as defined in clause 3, may in certain circumstances be paid pensions or allowances on proof of dependency, " dependent " meaning wholly or substantially dependent on the mariner's earnings. 
Pensions payable to the totally incapacitated mariner and his wife are also shown in the First Schedule, these also being the rates under the Repatriation Act. An allowance of 15s. a fortnight for each dependent child under sixteen years of age is made, as in the case of death. 
Special provision has been made in clauses 19 and 20 for pensions or allowances to  de facto  wives, and separated wives and separated widows, subject to dependency. 
Where there are other dependants such as parents, pensions are payable only when no pension is payable to the wife, separated wife,  de facto  wife or widow. These " other dependants " must prove, to the satisfaction of the commission, that they are without adequate means of support in order that a pension may be granted. This condition is similar to that in the Repatriation Act, as amended by the Financial Emergency Act, and appears also in the British scheme. 
Provision is made in clause 24 that, in respect of pensions both for death and incapacity, in no case shall the pensions to the widow and other dependants, or to the incapacitated mariner and his dependants, exceed, in the aggregate, the rate of pay which the mariner received in his calling. An exception may be made, however, in the case of certain widows with dependent children or whose circumstances, in the opinion of the commission, justify an increase where the pensions in the aggregate are less than the rate of pay. Pensions in these cases may be increased to a total not exceeding £44s. a fortnight. 
A mariner may suffer blindness or be so seriously injured as to need an attendant, and provision is made in the second schedule for such cases, the allowances being from 40s. to 80s. a fortnight. The commission may pay these allowances in addition to the pensions. 
Part IV. of the bill, clauses 34-44, covers allowances payable in cases where the Australian mariner is captured and detained by the enemy, and his wages are mot payable during his period of detention. This provision is " based on the British scheme  now  applicable to seamen on ships registered in the United Kingdom. Here again the rate of pay governs the amount of the allowance payable. The allowance rates are contained in the sixth schedule, and are referred to in clauses 36 to 38. The highest rate payable is for a mariner with a dependent wife, the next for a man with dependants other than a wife, and the lowest rate to one without dependants, or with children only. 
The rate for children is the same as in  the  part of the bill dealing with pensions,  viz.,  15s. a fortnight. 
Provision is made in clause 42, that the total allowance payable shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the fortnightly rate of pay of the Australian mariner. A portion of the total allowance payable is reserved for the mariner, to be paid to him on his release from detention; another portion is being reserved to be expended for his benefit during detention or for his dependants. The remainder, known as the " available " part of the allowance, may be paid to the seaman's dependants in accordance with the directions of the commission. Should there be any of this " available " part unexpended during the period in respect of which the detention allowance is granted, it may be applied for the benefit of the detained mariner as the commission directs. 
The conditions regarding dependency are the same as are provided in the pensions clauses of the bill, and in regard to a  de facto  wife fulfilment of the conditions of the definition in section 3 will be necessary before an allowance is granted. Provision is made in clause 55 for review by the commission of pensions and.  allowances  granted, as may become necessary. 
With respect to the provision for compensation for war damage to effects, as with detention allowances, this is the first provision of its kind in Australian legislation, and is based on the British scheme. The provisions are contained in Part V. of the bill, clauses 45 to 
The maximum amounts payable are shown in the seventh schedule, compensation being payable when effects are lost, through action by the enemy, or are damaged. When effects are lost their value at the time of the loss will be the deciding factor in assessing compensation payable; when they are damaged, the amount by which their value has been depreciated. 
The maximum amounts provided in the bill are to cover essentials only for the voyage. In times like the present, items such as valuable jewellery and clothing in excess of normal requirements should not be carried. If mariners bear this in mind, and leave unessential personal property ashore when proceeding on a voyage the amounts shown in the schedule should be ample to cover their losses. 
This" bill is a bulky document, with the contents of which it would be impossible to become acquainted at short notice. Such detailed acquaintance, however, is not essential to our purpose here this afternoon. The bill embodies a principle with which every member of the Opposition, and, I presume, every member of the Senate, is in entire agreement. Its appearance now is timely, and it provides no more than the men and their dependants are justly entitled to. In committee, it will be possible to scrutinize the individual clauses more closely, and, in the meantime, I assure the Minister in charge of the bill of the wholehearted support of the Opposition. 
This is a very comprehensive and contentious measure. It deals with matters that have been under discussion for some considerable time. I do not wish to appear, as sometimes it is said I am, an ultra critic; but I ask the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McBride)  how is it possible for honorable senators, in the short time at their disposal, to study and criticize it intelligently? I speak as one who has been closely connected with maritime organizations for many years. I know that they were in communication with the Government with reference to the introduction of this bill, and that they have been very much dissatisfied with their position, particularly since the outbreak of the war. It was hoped that the bill would have been introduced much earlier in the session. At this late hour the time is too limited for its proper scrutiny. No honorable senator can say that the provisions relating to compensation, for instance, are all that they should be. It is also impossible to compare this bill with the English act which provides for compensation in similar circumstances. 
-It may be; I am not suggesting otherwise. But I protest against being expected to accept it on its face value. Can the Minister say that its provisions have been framed after consultation and agreement with the representatives of the maritime organizations concerned? If the honorable gentleman could give me that assurance I should feel much happier in supporting the bill than I can be at present. 
I do not wish to vote against the Government on this bill, which I agree should have been introduced long ago. The war has been in progress since September of last year. Therefore, the Government must have known that the additional risks to which seamen were exposed demanded consideration. Hitherto seamen have had no guarantee of compensation for their dependants in the event of injury or death as a consequence of war operations. It therefore ill becomes the leader of the Senate to make such a remark. If he were in my place, and if he were' responsible, as I am, to an important section of the community that is vitally concerned in such a measure as this, I can well imagine the honorable gentleman taking much the same stand as I do now, but expressing himself in, perhaps, more forceful language. He is  au fait  with all the details of the bill. We are not, and we complain that we have not been given time to study it. 
I admit that it is. I know also that, unless a measure sound in principle is administered sympathetically, it may not be so beneficial to those concerned as we would like it to be. I have had a fairly long experience in these matters, and I have learned not to take too much for granted. This bill should not have been held back until thedying hours of the session because, as I have shown, we are denied the requisite time to study it carefully, or confer with those to whom we are responsible. How can we express their views or advocate their claims unless we have had time to consult them ? Having said this, I agree with my leader,  Senator Collings,  and I am prepared to vote for the measure. I thought it necessary to state my attitude in the hope that, in future, other measures of a contentious nature may not be brought forward in the last hours of a session. It may be all -right to give rapid passage to bills whose purpose can be seen at a glance, as was the case with several proposals passed earlier in- the afternoon ; but I protest against the Senate being expected to deal with such a comprehensive bill as this without reasonable opportunity for its consideration. It is most undesirable that the Senate should be regarded as merely a rubber stamp for legislation that has been passed in the House of Representatives. If we acquiesced in that view we should not justify our existence. We should be given sufficient time to discuss every bill that comes before us. 
 Most of us will agree with the protest made by  Senator Cameron  regarding the late introduction of such a comprehensive measure as this. I think, however, that the honorable gentleman might have offered some words of commendation to the Government for the presentation of the bill, although, as he has said, it should have been introduced earlier. Nor is it fair for the honorable senator to assume that it contains some objectionable features. 
The honorable senator is suspicious. It is fair to assume that the principles of this bill are the same as those of the British legislation on which it is founded, and, although  Senator Cameron  suspects that this bill will not meet the needs of those on whom it is intended to confer benefit, we should support it with the full knowledge that if its operation should disclose any weaknesses or injustices, the Government will at least give consideration  to  their removal. I should like the Minister to tell me in his reply whether this hill will apply to all seamen whose injury or death arises from war causes. Does it, for instance, apply to the crews of merchant vessels which are defensively armed and carry gun crews and are still carrying on trade on the Australian coast? 
I welcome this bill, but I agree with the points made by  Senator Cameron  and I should like to be convinced that it does not conflict with the Seamen's Compensation Act. I have not had the opportunity to ascertain that for myself. Another aspect is the effect this measure will have on marine insurance. I want to know whether, as the result of the Commonwealth Governments taking responsibility for paying compensation for death or injury of seamen in consequence of the war, marine insurance companies will reap any benefit and accordingly be expected to reduce premiums. 

 Senator ARMSTRONG (New South Wales) [4.311. - I give this bill my blessing and commend the Government for having brought it down. I am in possession of information that considerable time and energy have been devoted by the Maritime Council in consultation with the late Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street)  and the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  in the preparation of this measure and, whilst it is not a perfect piece of legislation, it suits the maritime workers, because they recognize that it is a basis upon which they can found efforts to get further benefits by amendment at a later stage. In the House of Representatives the Minister for the Navy told the honorable member for West Sydney  (Mr. Beasley)  that after the general elections he would be prepared to confer with him and the Maritime Council in order to effect improvements in this legislation. This bill provides a striking contrast to the .state of affairs disclosed in  debates in  this chamber and in the House of Representatives in the last day or two. Whilst this legislation confers great advantages on the maritime workers, dependants of militiamen killed while on military service apparently receive little or no compensation. I can answer  Senator Herbert  Hays by saying that this measure is all-embracing. 
As with  all  compensation laws, the schedules  are  the kernel of this bill. In the brief period that has been provided for examination, I have tried to reconcile the schedules with the schedules to the Seamen's Compensation Act, with the passage of which I had something to do, in December, 193S. The Seamen's Compensation Act provided  a  maximum compensation of £750 for injury. The maximum payment to an injured seaman under this legislation is £2 2s. a week. There are other compensatory payments to widows and dependants, but, generally speaking, and having regard to the danger which now exists at sea, but did not exist in 1938, this is a better measure than that which I introduced two years ago. The Government is to be congratulated upon its comprehensive scope. We have to remember that should any anomalies arise Parliament will have the- right to remove them. The Government has laid down a principle which did not exist during the last war, when the members of the mercantile marine considered that they had been unjustly treated. That disability has now been removed. The Government has taken steps to ensure that the members of the mercantile marine serving on vessels registered in Australia shall be entitled to the benefits provided in this legislation. 
 in reply  - I appreciate the difficulties confronting honorable senators through not having had sufficient time to peruse this measure, but they will realize that whilst its introduction has been delayed, it would be unwise to hold up its passage. Consequently the 
Government has brought it before Parliament so that should the necessity arise, compensation will be available to seamen. In October last the Government referred the subject matter of this measure to an inter-departmental committee, which was asked to draft a measure based upon the British legislation but, as I mentioned in my secondreading speech, to adapt it as far as practicable to Australian conditions, and to bring it as nearly parallel as possible to the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act. That act deals with  Avar  injuries sustained by soldiers, whereas this bill relates to war injuries of sailors. Up to the present we have been extremely fortunate in that no seaman has suffered any injury which would have brought him under a measure such as this had one been in operation. The only sinking which has occurred in Australian waters was the  Niagara,  which was on the British and not on the Australian register, and although no lives were lost the seamen who lost their effects were compensated under British legislation. Knowing how wars develop the Government thought it desirable to place this legislation on the statute-book. As was stated by  Senator Armstrong,  the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  informed honorable members in the House of Representatives that, after the elections, he will be willing to confer with interested persons and to discuss any matters they wish to bring before him in regard to this legislation. In answer to the points raised by  Senator Herbert  Hays I may explain that this bill covers seamen engaged on all  ships, whether armed or unarmed, on the Australian register. It covers the seamen on all such ships whether engaged in the interstate, intrastate or overseas service. Any seaman serving on such vessels who is injured, or sustains any loss will be covered. Reference has been made by  Senator Eraser  and by  Senator Allan  MacDonald to the relation between this measure and the Seamen's Compensation Act passed some time ago. The Seamen's Compensation Act is based upon entirely different premises. It is to provide compensation for those engaged in a civil occupation, and this is a measure designed to meet injuries and loss due to war service. I believe that the measure brings seamen into line almost completely with soldiers. 
That is so. The Government has been anxious to pass the bill at the earliest opportunity, and although its introduction has been somewhat delayed, honorable senators can rest assured that it goes a long way towards meeting the desires of the maritime unions. I cannot give  Senator Cameron  an assurance that such unions agree entirely with the whole of its provisions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In. committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Seamen's Pensions and Allowances  Committees  ) . 
.- I should like the Minister  (Senator McBride)  to explain the manner in which the members of the Seamen's Pensions and Allowances 'Committees are to be elected. 
I am informed that such committees will consist of existing members of the Repatriation Boards, with the addition of a representative of the maritime interests. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Incapacity must be due to war injury). 
Under the Repatriation Act as it stands at present, the onus of proof upon a claim being made for a pension on account of disability due to war service is laid on the Repatriation Commission and not on the applicant for the pension. Will that practice be followed under this legislation? 
I am informed that this bill does not contain a provision to place on the Repatriation Commission the onus of establishing that incapacity in respect of which a pension is claimed is not due to war injury, nor i3 it proposed to adopt that principle. The Repatriation Commission itself will decide whether or not the incapacity is clue to war injury and will assess the pension payable. No appeal is to be allowed against the decision of the commission. 
What I want to know is, whether the provision in the Repatriation Act, which lays on the Repatriation Commission the onus of proving that an injury was not due to war service, instead of laying on the individual concerned the onus of proving that it was so caused, is embodied in this legislation? 

 Senator McBRIDE (South Australia - Minister for the Army.) [4.50fl. - -No The commission itself will determine, on the evidence adduced, what liability exists under the act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 and 16 agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Pension after death of incapacitated Australian mariner). 
.- Subsequent to the last war, many returned soldiers developed ailments which the Repatriation 'Commission would not admit were due to war service. That anomaly has been the cause of more trouble than any other provision of the Repatriation Act. Is it to be perpetuated under this act? 
No. I could mention half a dozen genuine cases of men who have developed ailments the direct result of war service, but the Repatriation Commission will not admit that that is so, and the unfortunate widow of a man who dies in such circumstances is unable to obtain a pension. It appears to me that that evil is being perpetuated under this legislation. 
 Senator Keane  is perfectly right when he says that this measure is in line with the Repatriation Act; this clause is almost word for word a replica of the corresponding section in the act. I suggest to the honorable senator that anomalies are unlikely to arise during the currency of the war, as the majority of the ailments to which he has referred will manifest themselves later. Therefore, whilst admitting the point that he has made, I contend that it is not immediately important. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 18 to 25 agreed to. 
Clause 26 ('Claim for pension). 
I again urge the Minister to give attention to the point which I raised on a previous clause. I submit that if the provisions in thi9 measure relating to claims for pensions are not brought into line with those of the Repatriation Act, by placing the onus of proof on the commission, an anomalous position will arise. 
I fail to see how the difficulties which arose under the Repatriation Act will arise, as  Senator Fraser  contends, under this legislation. The definition of " war injury " in this measure sets out injuries due to specific causes. No doubt can arise on this point, at least in the immediate future. Therefore, difficulties of the kind which arose under the Repatriation Act can hardly arise under this measure. In any case, should such a difficulty arise it could be overcome by a subsequent amendment. The definition of "war injury" in this bill gives a " close up ", as it were, of what is likely to happen ; the cause of the injury, in respect of which a claim is made, can definitely be traced. Under the Repatriation Act, on the other hand, the main difficulty experienced was in the determining whether an applicant's injury was due to war service or to some prior physical condition. The likelihood of this difficulty arising under this legislation, is so slight that I hardly think the point raised by  Senator Fraser  need be discussed at this stage. 
I appreciate the point raised by  Senator Fraser,  and I shall bring his submission under the notice of the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Archie Cameron).  I repeat, however, that during the currency of the war, at any rate, it is hardly necessary to provide for the possibilities which he envisages. While the war is actually being carried on it will be possible to determine definitely whether an injury is due to war service. Should a seaman develop certain disabilities after the war doubt may arise as to their cause. Then, it may be necessary to make the provision which the honorable senator suggests. However, I shall draw the attention of the Minister for the Navy to the point raised by the honorable senator. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 27 to 59 agreed to. 
Schedules agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to reply to several questions that have been asked recently upon notice. 
Yesterday  Senator Brand  asked me, as Minister representing the Prime Minister - 
Will the Government consider amending section eighty-four of the Commonwealth Public Service Act so that returned soldiers temporarily employed on clerical duties may, after two years' satisfactory service, become eligible for permanent status? 
I am now able to furnish the following reply:- 
This matter has been carefully considered from time to time, but in the interests of the efficiency of the Public Service, the appointment of any persons to clerical positions without passing an examination cannot be agreed to. Eligibility for appointment can be secured by the passing of one of a large number of examinations specified in the Commonwealth Public Service Regulations, and the standard required of returned soldiers is lower than that demanded of non-returned soldiers. 
To-day  Senator Cameron  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Industry - 
In view of the reported statement of  Sir George  Beeby, Chief Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, on Monday, the 12th August, that in wage fixation the court has to rely on expedients, and that of Judge O'Mara, also of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, on the same date, that he did not know how to go about ascertaining the highest basic wage which industry could afford to pay, does the Government propose to take any action with respect to such statements, with the object of providing for the fixation of wage rates by the court on a more satisfactory basis? If not, why? 
The Attorney-General has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
The matter brought under notice by the honorable senator will receive consideration. 
The question is presumably based on the necessarily condensed report of the day's proceedings which was contained in the daily press. I should :be happy to make available for the perusal of the honorable senator the full transcript of the discussion to which the question relates. 
I desire only to add the following: - 
So far as the investigation of questions arising before the court is concerned, the court is empowered, under the act, to inform its mind in such manner as it thinks fit. I doubt if it would be possible to confer on the court .wider powers of investigation than it now possesses. 
As to whether the Parliament should lay down detailed principles for the guidance of the court in the exercise of its powers, I make only two comments. In the first place, the constitutional powers of the 'Commonwealth in relation to industrial matters as set out in placitum (xxxv) of section  51  of the Constitution are, as the honorable senator knows, not plenary powers, and there is some doubt whether under those powers the Commonwealth Parliament may lay down definite principles for the guidance of the court. In the second place, a reply in detail to the honorable senator's question would probably be outside the scope of the Standing Orders of the Senate in relation to questions. Broadly, however, I may say that the general principles acted on by the court in the past in considering the basic wage have been those enunciated by  His  Honour  Mr. Justice  Higgins in the Harvester case in 1007.  His  Honour laid  down tlie principle that the standard for the basic wage should be the normal needs of the average employee regarded as a human being living in a civilized community, and supporting a household consisting of about five persons. I am in general agreement with this principle. 
On the motion for tlie adjournment of the Senate yesterday,  Senator Allan  MacDonald invited attention to increases of the costs of certain mining materials. I have not had an opportunity to examine in detail the "list to which he referred, but I am convinced that the percentages he mentioned are not representative of the increases throughout the whole of Australia. There has, for example, been a fall of the price of jute, the present cost being less than 20 per cent, above pre-war costs. It is considered that the increase of the price of hessian would be of the same order, rather than the 150 per cent, suggested by the honorable senator. Most of the wire rope used in the mines is of Australian manufacture and the price of it, so far as I am aware, has not been increased The cost of special imported ropes may have increased by 33 per cent., but these would represent a small proportion of requirements. If the honorable senator will supply me with the full details of the comparative prices of the commodities he has mentioned and also the source of the quotations, I shall have an investigation made immediately. 
in an apparent attempt to impugn the sincerity of my motives in indicating my intention to move, to-morrow, for the disallowance of the "press gag" regulations, selected the fact that for this Senate there will be no to-morrow. What  Senator 'Collings  apparently overlooked is that there is still to-day. 
My reason for delaying the moving of a motion for the disallowance of these regulations was that I had accepted the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and the Government that they would be withdrawn. It is now clear to me that the Ministry does not intend to honour its word. The Prime Minister and the Cabinet are taking shelter behind the legal forms of the Parliament in order to evade any discussion of these regulations, and to prevent any expression of opinion upon them in the Parliament through parliamentary representatives. 
To-day we leave this building, and this Parliament will shortly be dissolved. Many honorable gentlemen will have to face the people of Australia but even so, a great principle of our democratic form of government is being resisted to the last ditch by this Government. I take this opportunity to invite honorable senators to give full and deep consideration to the Fascist dictatorial powers that we are leaving vested in one man. We go away from this Parliament leaving in the hands of one man,  Sir Keith  Murdoch, powers which are comparable only with those of Goebbels, the propaganda merchant of Nazi Germany. 
I desired to move for the disallowance of regulation 1S7 which deals with the control of the press, the radio, and the cinema, and because of the failure of the Prime Minister to honour his promise to repeal these drastic infringements of our democratic vehicles for the expression of thought. At the time the regulation was gazetted every newspaper throughout Australia violently protested against it. Whilst I do not suggest that newspapers always cover every phase of public opinion on major public questions, I think that we should preserve whatever freedom of expression still remains. It is because of this cardinal principle that I join with the other members of my party in expressing our condemnation of the Government's reactionary proposal. 
The Prime Minister was literally forced to heed the immediate public revulsion of this invasion of the very principles for which we are alleged to be fighting in this war. A public statement was made by the Prime Minister that the regulation would be reconsidered and drastically amended. A month has elapsed, and as  faT  as the public is aware, nothing has been done. With the imminent dissolution of the Parliament, and the consequent closing  of all  avenues of constitutional redress, we are forced to the conclusion that the Government's real intention is to allow the regulation to remain as it is. 
If this he the ease it is a distinct breach of an undertaking already given, and marks the Prime Minister as a man whose word on important pu'blic questions cannot he accepted. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I cannot allow that remark to stand. The honorable senator must withdraw it, for he is not entitled to make reflections upon a member of the House of Representatives. 
-In deference to your wishes,  Mr. President,  I withdraw the remark. My motion for disallowance was intended to be a challenge to the Government, and the refusal to accept the motion establishes beyond doubt that the Government's intention, all along, has been to impose this infamous, reactionary and undemocratic Goebbels technique upon the Australian people, whose sons are to-day shedding their blood to retain the hardwon liberties that every true Australian has pledged himself to defend. If, on the other hand, the Government had genuinely accepted the public protest, it would have cleaned the slate and repealed this entire regulation. There has never been any need for this regulation in either an amended or any other form. The press has approached the problems of the defence of this country with the object of stirring up public interest and demanding that the failure of the Government to marshal Australia's full resources for defence purposes shall be remedied. It could be said that in carrying out this national work the press has exercised a commendable restraint in so far as our weaknesses are concerned, in order that enemy agents may not be apprised of any detail that may be of value to them. 
The regulation appears to be the outcome of a peeved condition of mind, and comes very strangely from the ex-man agingdirector of one of the Commonwealth's largest newspapers,  Sir Keith  Murdoch. Stranger still is the fact that this powerful newspaper organization has hastened to disown its managing director and his Goebbel tactics. The regulation, moreover, constitutes a striking example of how executive power can be used behind the back of the Parliament. It also demonstrates that there are in this community many prominent public men who, while outwardly professing democratic principles, really believe in the vilest forms of Fascism. 
 To-day  Senator Fraser  asked me - 
Has a decision been reached by the 
Government for decentralization of tbe Australian Imperial Force camps in Western. Australia? 
If so, what locations have been decided upon. 
I am now able to inform him that the Australian Imperial Force in training in Western Australia is accommodated in two main camps. A proposed additional camp at Melville is now under consideration, but the Government does not intend further to decentralize the Australian Imperial Force Camps of Western Australia. 
I take this opportunity to reply to a statement made in this chamber this morning by  Senator Amour  who seems to suffer from a complex that causes him to believe that people do not carry out their undertakings, or keep their word. The honorable senator said to-day that the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  had undertaken to send a cheque for £100 to Captain T. P. Conway. No such undertaking was given by that honorable gentleman. He said that  Senator Amour  met him one day in Martin-place and informed him that the committee set up by the Senate to consider the case had recommended an  ex gratia  payment of £100. The Treasurer replied that he had not received the recommendation, but when he did receive it, he would consider it thoroughly, and, if there were no objections, the payment would be made promptly. As a matter of fact at that time the recommendation had not been brought before the Government, and when it did finally come before the Cabinet, Ministers wisely decided' not to make the payment. 

 Senator Amour has raised an objection to certain censorship regulations in which he apparently has a great interest, although he has not taken the trouble to inform his mind of their exact purport. He said that the regulations empowered the Government to  prevent the press from publishing any information which the Government deemed to be undesirable. Nothing is farther from the truth. The fact is that the regulations give the Government power to compel the publication of corrections of misstatements made in the press. They do not empower the DirectorGeneral of Information to prevent the press from publishing news or expressing opinions. There is a press censorship in Australia, and most of the papers are self-censored. I am glad to say that in most cases Australian newspapers have adhered to the rules of that censorship. The power given under the regulations does not rest solely with the DirectorGeneral of Information. He can act only with the approval of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  who is the Minister for Information. 
I should like to refer to the statement made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  with regard to the appointment of trade union advisory panels. At no time did the Australasian Council of Trade Unions guarantee the full support of the trade union movement. What we did say was that the majority of the trade unionists were behind the proposal, and that is the position to-day. But it is not the position with respect to the panel that the Government has appointed. What we were concerned about mainly was that we believed that should the panel operate in the manner proposed, precedents would be established and arrangements would be entered into, without consultation or agreement, which would affect other unions. Such a state of affairs would cause the. very disputes which we desire to avoid. I give one instance of what we had in mind. On Monday morning last a deputation, consisting mainly of representatives of workers at the Gordon-street brassworks  in Footscray waited upon me, and stated that each shift at that factory had only two one-man buses, which were quite inadequate, and the overloading constituted a danger to passengers. I suggested that that was only a minor matter which should be brought under the notice of the management through the medium of the workers' organization. In reply, members of the deputation asked, "What about the other organizations involved ?", and I said that the men would have to do their best and see what arrangements could be made. The point is that these men were exasperated, because they believed that the management did not consider them. That is an example of a small disagreement which might easily develop into a big dispute. If there had been a panel of the character suggested by the Australasian Council of Trade Unions that matter would have been adjusted almost immediately. I communicated with representatives of the Tramways Board, who said that they could not do anything because they had not the facilities. I then communicated with the welfare officer,  Mr. Westhoven,  who said that he recognized the justice of the claim. The panel at present constituted cannot deal with matters such as these. 
The honorable senator is an optimist. Workers must not be made to feel that they are being entirely ignored; they must be given reasonable facilities for putting their claims forward, and if they believe that they have a legitimate grievance, their representations should be fully considered. To get the best results from the workers freer access to the authorities in control must be provided. That is not possible with the present panel, on which thousands of men in the factories have no representation through the medium of subsidiary panels. Therefore it will be found to be unworkable. Reference has been made to the attitude of  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. I have been closely in touch with all the negotiations that have taken place for the appointment of the panel. 
I say emphatically that they were broken down deliberately. Although, the Government's plan may suit its convenience, it will not work out in practice, because the workers like to knowthat they will have an opportunity to elect representatives on the panels. In England during the last war the system of shop committees was adopted, and worked very satisfactorily. The men concerned appointed their own representatives, who dealt immediately with any disputes that arose, with the result that, essential works were carried on much more expeditiously and satisfactorily than would have been possible in other circumstances.Reports which have appeared in the press indicate that since this war broke out the same system has been adopted in both England and the United States of America. In all sincerity I say that if Ministers wish to get the best results from the men employed in Australian factories at a time like this, their wishes should be consulted in order that, they may feel that they are part of a great industrial organization for the purpose of meeting the nation's requirements for war purposes. In reply to the statement made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  last night, I would say that  Mr. Curtin  is not so closely in touch as I am with all that happens and I believe that if he were fully informed of the situation, his views would be somewhat modified. 
This morning I received an answer to one of five questions which I had asked of Ministers. I should like to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate that, as soon as the answers to the four remaining questions are available they will be sent to me in Melbourne. 

 - in reply. - I think it is very wrong for any honorable senator to make an attack on a private citizen who has not the right to defend himself in this chamber. No honorable senator should take advantage of his privileged position. I object to the statement made by  Senator Amour  disparaging an outstanding Australian citizen who, in this time of national peril, has placed his valuable services at the disposal of the Government. As  Senator 
McBride has pointed out, any statements published in the newspapers as coming from this gentleman have the full approval of the Minister for Information, who is the Prime Minister. I also regret that  Senator Cameron  should continue this controversy about the attitude of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions to the trade union advisory panel, and I repeat the offer of the Prime Minister to-day that he is still prepared to appoint representatives of that organization to the panel. The honorable senator has been closely associated with these negotiations for two months now. But while he has been bickering and talking so much about grievances and conditions, prominent unions that are prepared to do their part in this struggle have made a direct approach to the Prime Minister and intimated their willingness to help the Government. I appeal to the honorable senator not to stand on technical objections and hold up vital negotiations in the way that he holds up bills in the Senate, because while he is talking, the very lives of our boys who are in the air, on the sea, or in the desert depend on an uninterrupted flow of munitions. I urge the honorable senator not to allow his prejudices to prevent the organizations with which he is connected from co-operating with the Government in this most important work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move - 
That the Senate records its sincere regret at  the  death of the Right Honorable Neville Chamberlain, a former Prime Minister of the 
United Kingdom, places on record its appreciation of  his  devoted  service  to the British lim pi re and to the cause of peace in the world, and tenders its deep sympathy to the widow and family in their bereavement. 
It was with very deep regret that the Australian- people learned on the 9tl] November of  the  death of  Mr. Neville  Chamberlain, who was Prime Minister of Great Britain during three years of unparalleled difficulty. There is little doubt that  Mr. Chamberlain's  end was hastened by that devotion to duty whichwas the outstanding feature of a long and distinguished career of public service. The late Prime Minister did not enter political life till 191S, when he became  a  member of the House of Commons; in 1923 he was Postmaster-General and Minister for Health in the Ministry of  Mr. Bonar  Law. He was later appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer when  Mr. Baldwin  became Prime Minister. In 1937 he was elected to the leadership of the Conservative party and succeeded  Mr. Baldwin  as Prime Minister; that office he held until his resignation in May of this year. 

 Mr. Chamberlain, throughout his whole life, personified those qualities which make an English gentleman.  His  steadfastness of purpose had always endeared, him to his people. He will be' remembered as one who unceasingly laboured to obtain peace in Europe and in. the world. But when it was clear that that peace was impossible in the face of dictatorial governments, he threw himselfwith equal determination into the fierce struggle of war, with the realization that war was the only means to obtain that peace. Never before had a man been Prime Minister of Great Britain in sucha crisis as England faced in September of last year. The United Kingdom was confronted with the most formidable fighting machine which had ever been evolved by the hands of man - a machine operated by one who regarded it as  a&lt;  means of subjugating the whole world to his power. "Whatever may be said of events in- 1938, we now know that  Mr. Chamberlain  obtained for the Empire that precious breathing space which enabled it to commence the tremendous effort which was to become .the answer to the "total war". The- words in hisbroadcast to the English people on the  outbreak of war are a source of inspiration and hope to us all. He said - 
We have a clear conscience. AVe have done all that any country could do to establish peace. The situation in which no word given by Germany's ruler could be trusted and no people or country could feel themselves safe has become intolerable. And now that we have resolved to finish it, 1 know that you will all play your part with calmness and courage. 
AVe have lost a great leader. . But he will ever be remembered by British .people as a statesman whose life represented all those things which are the essence of British character. 
In expressing on behalf of the Opposition our sincerest sympathy with  Mrs. Chamberlain  in the irreparable loss she has sustained by the passing of her distinguished husband, and with the British people in the loss of a great statesman, I may be excused if I feel a measure of pride on having paid my tribute in this chamber to the Bight Honorable Neville Chamberlain and his worthy public service while yet he lived. People generally, especially those engaged in public life, are all too prone to wait until a man is dead before acknowledging his virtues. Let us look back over all that has happened in the distressing times since September of last year. When, as Prime Minister of Great Britain, this gentle man, distinguished in the service of his country, first in municipal affairs and later in Parliament, again saw the war clouds gathering over Europe, he took his courage in both hands, and, although 70 years of age and frail in health, conquered hi3 aversion to air travel, which he had never previously undertaken, and risking his political future, flew three times to Germany in order to interview Hitler. That he was deceived does not detract in the least degree from the wonderful effort that he made. It is cruel - perhaps it is just fate - that Neville Chamberlain passes with but few left to do him honour or justice. He tried to avert from England the concentrated horrors it is now experiencing so tragically. It will surely be recorded in the Book of Time to his eternal credit that he strove manfully to prevent this second world war, and that the months of respite which his action secured for Great Britain, giving its splendid people time to. prepare to resist the invader as they have so wonderfully done, may well prove to be the basis of the final triumph of liberty and freedom over despotism and tyranny, and the victory of those who love the good and true over the forces of evil and dishonour. 
With the concurrence of my colleagues, I associate members of the Country party in the Senate with the motion. I agree with what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has just said. I, too, feel a great deal of satisfaction that, through thick and thin, I consistently supported every action taken by that great and good man, Neville Chamberlain, to avert this disaster which has overtaken the world. At this tragic time I do not deem it proper to raise any controversial matter, but to me it is a matter of amazement that what that great statesman did, for not only England but also for the whole world, and' its future, has not  been more generally recognized. He gave to England an opportunity which, at the time of Munich, it did not possess, to defend, itself against the powers of cruelty, tyranny, aggression, injustice and. greed that now threaten the world. When the history of those times as relating not merely to England, but also to the world generally, has been written, men thousands of years hence will recognize this man as one of the outstanding figures of the age - a man who, seeing the fate of civilization in the balance, took those fateful journeys to Munich in order to try to preserve peace. In to-day's press we are reminded by one more competent to speak, perhaps, than any other person,  Sir Nevile  Henderson, of the precise state of our preparedness at the time of the crisis. He said - 
On September 28, 1038, we did not have a single Spitfire and only one or two experimental Hurricanes. There were exactly Haven modern anti-aircraft guns with which to defend London out of the 400 estimated as the minimum necessary. 
Germany could have dropped 2,000 bombs a day on London and we could not have replied. Marshal Goering told me: "If you insist on making war, there will lie very little left of London and absolutely nothing of Czecho-Slovakia." He waa undoubtedly perfectly correct. 

 Mr. Chamberlain failed to avert this war, but it was not his fault. I think Hitler regretted Munich more than anyone. He thought he had missed an opportunity. I agree with him. 
History will endorse the views expressed by  Sir Nevile  Henderson. Only last week, after the news of the death of this hero of the British race was recorded in the cables, I received a personal letter from him. For some years he. had expressed very strong views about the future organization that should be undertaken to ensure the preservation of security in the world, and I arn flattered to think that he had taken some interest in the efforts that I have made and intend to make, in the Senate towards this end. I shall always take the deepest pride in, and derive the greatest satisfaction from this letter, which concluded with these words - 
At the same time I should like to take this opportunity of sending you my grateful thanks for your kind appreciation and support. 
Every word of appreciation of his action expressed in the press and in the Parliaments of many countries must have been tremendously encouraging and heartening to him, and must have fortified him in the belief that he had taken what was the right and only course open to him for the sake of humanity and the future of civilization. That belief is held to-day by many millions of people. 
I desire to associate my party and myself with the motion and express our deep ' sympathy with the relatives of the late  Mr. Chamberlain  in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Dr.- William  Robert Nuttal  Maloney, former member for the division of Melbourne .in the Hm,se of Representatives, places on record its appreciation of his 'long and meritorious public service, and .tenders its profound sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. ' 
It is with deep regret that I submit this motion. The late  Dr. Maloney  had one of the longest parliamentary careers in Australian history, his service extending over a period of about  50  years. Having been elected to the Legislative Assembly of Victoria for the constituency of West Melbourne in  1889,  he was re-elected for the same seat in  1S92, 1S94, 1897, 1900  and  1902.  In'  1904  he successfully contested the federal division of Melbourne and represented that constituency continuously until the time of his death. He was a member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Party that visited England in  1911  at the invitation of the " Imperial Government to attend the coronation ceremony of King George Y. From  1910  to  1917  he was a Temporary Chairman of Committees. He was a member of the Royal Commission on the Pearling Industry in  1913.  and of the Royal Commission on Electoral Laws in  1914.  From  1914  to  1917  he was a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, and , in  1917  and  191S  he was a member of the Parliamentary Recruiting Committee. As a member of the Commonwealth Delegation of the Empire Parliamentary Association he visited South Africa in  1924,  and in  1937  he was a member of the Delegation which visited England for the coronation of King George VI. Outside Parliament he was for many years actively engaged in social welfare in relation to his own profession of medicine. He was affectionately known as " the Little Doctor " to honorable members and to his many friends in Melbourne, and he will be sadly missed by all. To his family we extend our deepest sympathy in their sad loss. 
I first made personal contact with  Dr. Maloney  just  25  years ago and from then until the time of his death recently, he was my personal friend. I had known of him for a quarter of a century before I met him and he was my ideal of a social reformer. In the electorate which he- represented  in -the House of  Representatives for so many years, he was affectionately known by everybody as " the Little Doctor ". He had to his credit a long life of unselfish community service, unequalled probably  by that of any other man, and certainly not surpassed by any public man with whose life I am familiar. No pensioner in his electorate was ever allowed to have a pauper's funeral;  Dr. Maloney  looked after that. Then there was his wonderful fight extending over some years to establish a fund to supply milk free of charge for babies of poor parents. 13 is medical services were always available, in countless cases without any payment whatsoever, and, in other cases, when the patient could, afford it, for a merely nominal payment. It is fitting that we should pay tribute to a public man of the character of our departed friend, and it is also most .fitting that we should express to his relatives how fully we share their grief. 
With the concurrence of my colleagues, I associate the Country party with the motion. I knew  Dr. Maloney  for 22 years and for the whole of that time and many years "before, he represented the great city of Melbourne. He had a host of friends, and probably was better known as a philanthropist than as a politician because of the generous manner in which he ministered to the needs of the people in his electorate. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  . has said,  Dr. Maloney  set out to give to the children of Melbourne an opportunity to face life with the strength that is so necessary in these strenuous times. He also gave medical advice to all who sought it, in most cases merely at the cost of a bottle of medicine. Thousands of people in the electorate of Melbourne are indebted to him for his practical help, and their sympathy is extended to the bereaved family of one who did so much for the electorate, and his native country. 
As a lifelong friend of the late  Dr. Maloney,  and as a fellow Victorian, 1 desire to add my tribute to the memory of this great man. Members of my party will recollect that at  Dr. Maloney's  last appearance with us at the close of last session, he said in our party' room that he would probably not contest another election. He added that he prayed to Cod that if Labour should come to power, it would not forget the needs of the poor. He hoped that those who died in indigent circumstances would be given decent burial, and that the needs of the women and children would always be kept in mind. That utterance was almost prophetic, for only a few weeks later  Dr. Maloney  contracted a fatal illness. The nation, and this Parliament, are much poorer for his passing. 
As other speakers have said.,  Dr. Maloney  did amazing work among the people of Melbourne. Blessed with a sound' education, some share of the world's goods, and a good professional knowledge, he freely placed all at the disposal of the poor. He sought, neither office nor honours, and I believe that his like lias not graced the Federal. Parliament. He never deviated from the principles which he held, and he sought no recompense for his services, other than the gratitude of those whom he benefited. I therefore join with other speakers in paying my tribute to the memory of " The Great Little Doctor ". 
AH of us knew  Dr. Maloney  as " The Little Doctor"; but, whilst he may have been little in stature, we, and his constituents, will remember him as a big man.  Dr. Maloney's  work on behalf of the less fortunate members of our community will long be remembered-, and in addition, a worthy memorial to his efforts is being erected. Virtually a foundation member of the Commonwealth Parliament,  Dr. Maloney  will remain in our thoughts as one of the greatest contributors to the democratic principles that we enjoy to-day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
.. - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its 'sincere regret at the death of former  Senator Colonel Percy  Phipps Abbott, C.M.G., V.D., places on record  its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I regret to inform the Senate that former  Senator Colonel Percy  Phipps Abbott, C.M.G., V.D., died at Tamworth, New 
South Wales, on the 9th September,  Colonel Abbott  was elected to the House of Representatives for New England, New South Wales, in 1913, 1914 and 1917. He was elected to the Senate in 1925 for the State of New South Wales and remained a senator till 192S. He was a member of the Royal Commission on the. Commonwealth Constitution in 1927-29. For many years the late gentleman was associated with the Commonwealth Military Forces. On the outbreak of the Great War of- 1914-18,. he was appointed major in the 6th Light Horse Regiment, and was afterwards appointed lieutenant-colonel commanding the 12th Light Horse Regiment which left Australia early in 1915. He served abroad with the regiment and was afterwards attached to the 5th Division in France in 3 9.1 7 and 191 S. He was made -a Companion of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George in 1917. I have to express to his widow and family our sympathy in their bereavement. 
I did not know the late  Colonel Abbott  personally - he left, the Senate just prior to my advent here - but I should like to say on behalf of members of the Opposition that we respect his memory because of. the services which he rendered to Australia both at home and abroad, and we join with the Leader of the Senate and hon.orable senators opposite in conveying the condolences of honorable senators to the bereaved family. 
I desire to associate my colleagues of the Country party and myself with thismotion. I knew the 'late  Senator Abbott  very intimately, although he was not  a  relative of mine, as might be supposed from the name. In the House of Representatives he represented the New England electorate which included the State electorate represented by me in the Parliament of New South Wales. That close association extended beyond Parliament. On his return from the war,  Colonel Abbott  took a very great interest in what many people of Australia then thought, and probably would be thinking to-day, but for the war, the urgent necessity for constitutional reform in Australia. He took a lively interest in what, at thai time, was a very live movement in New South Wales, to bring about some readjustment of the constitutional relations of Commonwealth and States. I, too, was very closely associated with that movement, and I can testify to the genuine, broad outlook of  Colonel Abbott,  his statesmanlike approach to .matters of that sort, and his earnest desire, without any sei f- &gt; aggrandisement, to bring about a necessary reform. He was a member of the royal commission which exhaustively investigated the operation of the Australian Constitution. The recommendations of that body appear to have been pigeonholed for the present, but I hope, that some day they will be dealt with, in which  event it will be found that the deceased gentleman and his fellow commissioners performed  a  great service to Australia in the investigation which they undertook. I desire, therefore, to place on record our appreciation of the public-spirited service and life of the late  Senator P.  P. Abbott. 
I did not know the late  Senator P.  P. Abbott, but on behalf of myself and colleagues, I express  our  deepest sympathy with his relatives in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I greatly regret to announce that the Honorable Albert Ernest Green, Member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Kalgoorlie, died at Kalgoorlie on the 2nd October. 
The late  Mr. Green  represented Kalgoorlie in the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia from 1911 to 1921. In 1922 he was elected to the House of Representatives for the Division of Kalgoorlie, and was the member for that division until his death. He was a member of the select committee on the effect of the operation of the Navigation 
Act on trade in 1923, and was also a member of the Royal Commission on National Insurance in 1923-27. From February, 1929, to September, 1929, he was a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. He was appointed Minister for Defence in October, 1929, and held that portfolio till February, 1931. From that month until January, 1932, he was Postmaster-General and Minister for Works and Railways. 
His passing, I am sure, means a personal loss to all the members of both Houses. I extend to his widow and family our sincere sympathy. 
I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable Albert Ernest Green, Member for the Division of Kalgoorlie in the House of Representatives and former Commonwealth Minister, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
Those of us who knew the late Honorable Albert E. Green intimately and shared his confidences find it extremely difficult to realize that he is no longer with us.  His  record of public service was more remarkable than the mere length of it, and that was considerable, for he served for ten years in the State Parliament of Western Australia and eighteen years in this National Parliament. An intensely earnest man, he took the problems of life seriously, as they shouldbe taken, and gave of his best in every department of those activities which constituted his life. We knew him as "Texas" Green; it was always difficult to think of him by his proper title - the Honorable Albert E. Green. He was a big Australian with a wide international outlook; his ideals of brotherhood, fellowship, and service to his fellow men were the guiding rules of his life. To all of us who knew him intimately, he was a good companion. He could be severe in his criticisms, but " Texas " Green was never bitter or uncharitable. He was an omnivorous reader, gifted with a wonderful memory. He loved poetry, and could recite with eloquence and great effect the gems which most appealed to him. Among my most, treasured possessions are some of the things which I have heard him recite and which I afterwards asked him. to commit to writing so that I might preserve them. 
Because of his wide interests and extensive travel, the late  Mr. Green  became known to many people as the honorable member for New Guinea in this Parliament. He made himself acquainted with the people of the Mandated Territory and in that way he was able to render valuable service to a section of people far removed from the national capital. To  Mrs. Green,  a wonderful mate to " Texas ", whom many of us know well, the deepest sympathy of honorable members on both sides of the chamber goes out this afternoon. 
With the consent of my colleagues, I associate the Australian Country party with the expressions' of regret that have been voiced, in connexion with the death of the Honorable Albert Ernest Green, popularly known as "Texas'" Green. I had the privilege of the personal friendship of the late  Mr. Green  for well over 30 years. We were associated in public affairs in Kalgoorlie before either of us entered Parliament. Both of us were elected to the Parliament of Western Australia for the first time on the 3rd October, 1911, nearly 30 years ago, and we were there together for over ten years. In 1922, the late  Mr. Green  was elected to the Commonwealth Parliament as the member for the Division of Kalgoorlie, and he retained the confidence of the people of the goldfields until his death. For many years prior to his election to Parliament, he was an official of the post office in Kalgoorlie. From there he graduated to politics, and. his many friends both inand out of the department were delighted when, in 1931, he achieved his ambition and became PostmasterGeneral of the Commonwealth and. head of the department in which he had spent so many years. The late  Mr. Green'  also did excellent work for Australia as Minister for Defence in the Scullin Government. He was a man with aremarkable personality, and his cheerful and friendly disposition made firm friends for him wherever he went. He had an extraordinarily firm hold of the Kalgoorlie electorate, which comprises more than nine- tenths of the area of Western Australia, as it extends from Wyndham in the north to Esperance in the south. I travelled with him on many occasions; the energy he displayed in traversing his huge electorate will always be remembered there, as he was the friend of every one even in the most remote part of that great constituency. At the general elections, he received the wholehearted support from persons holding the most varied political opinions. Miners, prospectors, pastoralists, pearlers, farmers and other workers joined in showing their appreciation of his public service and personal qualities. He stood for a fair deal for all sections in his vast electorate.  His  death makes a void in the public life of Australia, particularly Western Australia, and I join with others in extending sympathy to his wife and family in their bereavement. 
I support the motion. The late  Mr. Green  was always known as "Texas". One might say that his heart was as big as his electorate. He was not merely a politician.  His  knowledge of human life and sympathy for human suffering endeared him to every one, and particularly to hia constituents, in whose interests he always worked. It was a striking tribute to the esteem in which 'he was held that he was able to represent the electorate of Kalgoorlie from 1922 until the time of his death. On two occasions he was returned unopposed. I offer the deepest sympathy of my colleagues and myself to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I m o ve - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere rome at tlie death of The Honorable John Henry Keating, former  Senator and  Commonwealth Minister,  places on record its appreciation of his lone and meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
It is with regret that I announce that a former member of the Senate, the Honorable John Henry Keating, died in Melbourne on the  31st October last. The late  Mr. Keating  was a member of the First Commonwealth Parliament, being one of the Senators elected for the State of Tasmania at the general elections held in 1901: he was re-elected at all subsequent elections until 1917. He ceased to be a senator in 1922. In 1901 he was  chairman  of the Select Committee on Steamship Communication between Australia and Tasmania. He was an Honorary Minister in the Deakin Ministry from July, 1905, to October, 1906," when he was appointed Vice-President of the Executive Council, an office which he held until February, 1907. In the same Ministry, he  wa3  Minister for .Home Affairs from January, 1907, to November, 190S. In 1906 he was also a member of the Select Committee on the Tobacco Monopoly, and in 1913 was  a  member of the Select Committee on General Elections. From 1914 to 1917 he was a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works, and in  1915  of the Select Committee on Mount Balfour Post Office, Tasmania. In 1916 he visited England at the invitation of the Imperial Parliamentary Association, and in 1924 was made an Officier de 1'Instruction Publique of France. At the time of his death  Mr. Keating  was acting as legal adviser to the Department of Information. I extend to his family our deepest sympathy. 
I desire to associate the members of the Opposition with all that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator MeLeay)  has said concerning the late  Mr. Keating. His  death was a great surprise to those who knew him, particularly as shortly before he was actively engaged in public service. One achievement which will always stand to the credit of the late  Mr. Keating  was the drafting of the Australian Copyright Act, which, in itself, was a work of some magnitude. We honour ourselves in paying tribute to this public man who has rendered long and meritorious service to the Commonwealth, and we extend to hia widow and family our sincere sympathy. 
I wish to associate myself and the members of the Country party in this chamber  with the expressions of regret concerning the death of  Mr. Keating.  I had not the honour of being a member of the chamber when he was a senator, but I know of his meritorious service to Australia. It is interesting to record amongst his  varied, achievements that during his trip to Great Britain in 1916 he was invited by the Allied Agricultural Relief Committee to visit France and Belgium. That was one indication of his extensive grasp of public affairs. 
I  asso-elate  myself with the remarks made by the Leader of the Senate  (.Senator McLeay)  and other honorable senators who have paid tribute to the late exSenator Keating, not only because of his achievements as a public man, but also he-cause he was my close personal friend. I was a member of the House of Representatives when the late  Mr. Keating  was a member of the Senate, and by that contact I had an opportunity to appreciate both his eloquence and his knowledge of constitutional matters. "When he had ceased to be a member of the Senate, he and I forgathered a good deal', and I found that his knowledge of constitutional matters and his stories of the early days of the Australian Commonwealth made him a delightful companion and a splendid host. The late  Mr. Keating,  did a great deal towards directing Commonwealth activities in the early days of federation, and overcoming some of the difficulties with which Australia was confronted when operating under a. new constitution. I pay tribute to the memory of a charming gentleman, and a dear personal friend, and a great public man. 
I desire to associate myself with the motion moved. Ex-Senator Keating was a foundation member of the Federal Parliament. He entered the Senate as a comparatively young man. He possessed great attainments, was a brilliant  speaker,  and served' his country faithfully. In the early days of federation he played an important part in framing gome of the legislation under which the Commonwealth is working to-day. On behalf of the Tasmanian senators, I pay tribute to the memory of this great man who did so much, not only for the State of Tasmania, also for the whole Commonwealth which he served with great distinction. 
Although I did not know the late ex-senator, I extend the sincere sympathy and that of the members of my party, to the relatives and friends of the deceased. 
As. a very old friend of the late John Henry Keating, I join in the expression of sympathy with his relatives at his passing. I had known the late ex-senator for many years, and I remember his election as a member of this Parliament for the first time. I attended his funeral recently, when leading citizens of Hobart paid tribute to a man who had rendered, great service to the State of Tasmania. I bear testimony to his worth, and to his valuable contribution to the public life of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable Frank Anstey, a former Member for the Division of Bourke in the House of Representatives and a former Commonwealth Minister, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to- the members of his family in their bereavement. 
It is with regret that I submit a motion in respect of the death, of another former member of this Parliament. The late  Mr. Anstey  died in Melbourne on the 3.1'st October. He was a member of the State Parliament of Victoria from 1904 to 1910. He was then elected to the House of Representatives as the member for Bourke, which he represented from 1910 until 1934, a period of 24 years. From 1922 to 1927 he was Assistant Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. He was a member of a royal commission which, in 1.923, investigated the effect of the operation of the Navigation Act on Australian trade and industry; and a member of the Joint ' Committee of Public Accounts from February to. September, 1929. In October, 1929, hewas appointed Minister for Health and Minister for Repatriation, which office he held until March, 1931. I extend our sincere sympathy tohis family in their loss. 
The late Frank Anstey was a remarkable man, because of both his gift of oratory and his power with the pen. I was about to say that some of us young fellows who knew him years ago looked up to him as a guide, philosopher -and friend ; but, actually he was only of the same age as myself. His contribution to literature, particularly with regard to financial subjects, was a great inspiration to those of us who were taking part in reform work outside Parliament, with no ideas in those earlier days of ever joining him in the National Parliament. Among the books he wrote were  Facts and Theories of Finance, Money Power, The Kingdom of Shylock,Red Europe,  and  Monopoly and Democracy ,  and each of these works was  a  classic of its kind. It was with great grief that  Mr. Anstey's  friends noticed in 1934 that his health was- deteriorating,  and that he was losing the fire and vigor that had ' characterized him in earlier years. He reached the age of 75 years, and had 30 years of parliamentary experience, six years in the Parliament of Victoria and 24 years in this National Parliament.  His  eloquence was remarkable and his sincerity intense. Those were the outstanding characteristics of a distinguished man. To those whom he has left behind the Opposition extends its sincere sympathy. 
I desire to associate the Country party with the motion before the Senate. I knew the late honorable gentleman for about 22 years. He was an orator of the first water. Every body in the House knew when Frank Anstey was about to make a speech, because his demeanour made the fact evident. Whenever he addressed the House he was listened to by  a  full audience.  His  was a colourful personality. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  remarked, he wrote many books which' created great interest, although probably every body did not agree with . the views advanced by him. He was a man of undoubted sincerity, as well as of great eloquence. I express my sympathy with his family at the loss of one who served his country well and with very great ability. 
As one of the oldest friends of the late Frank Anstey,. I add my meed of praise to his memory.  His  oratorical powers made him an inspiration to the majority of the young men of the Labour movement in Victoria. Hewas doubly blessed with the gift of eloquence, and a high literary capacity. What impressed me most was that he was a rebel against the . social conditions under which he was reared, and heused his undoubted talents in a valiant effort to improve them.  His  declining years, unfortunately, were saddened by the disappointment that, when he became a Minister of the Crown, he was unable to give effect to some of the aspirations of his party. He passed away practically as he lived, not desiring the applause of anybody. He died one night, and was buried the next morning. Even his most intimate friends did not know of his passing. In my judgment he was in the same class as an orator as Alfred Deakin, and he took his . place among men of the highest literary achievement Australia has produced.  His  death is a milestone in the history of the Labour movement in this country. I offer to his family my deepest sympathy. Australia is poorer, and the Labour movement is weaker, by reason of the loss of a man of his calibre. 
.; - I concur in all that, has been said with regard to the late  Mr. Anstey,  and offer my . sincere sympathy, and that of the members of my party, to the relatives and friends of the deceased. 
Many years ago, before I entered politics. I was a great admirer of the lateMr. Anstey because of his strenuous fight for monetary reform. He was not only a valiant fighter, but also a man of high ideals. He always evinced a deep knowledge of the subjects on which he spoke. I agree with  Senator Keane  that he rendered great service to Australia.  His  abilities and service will not be-forgotten by those who knew him in the prime of his life. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
.  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable James MacKinnon Fowler, a former member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Perth, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I regret to announce to the Senate the death of yet another former member of the Commonwealth Parliament, the Honorable James MacKinnon Fowler.  Mr. Fowler  died in Melbourne on the 3rd November. 
He was a member of the first parliament,being elected to the House ofRepresentatives for the Division of Perth, Western Australia, in 1901, and at each subsequent election to 1919. He represented that division for 22 years. He was a member of the Select Committee on Decimal Coinage in 1.901, and of the Select Committee on Electoral Act Administration in 1914. From 1904 to 1907 he was a member of the Royal Commission on the Tariff. He was a temporary Chairman of Committees from 1906 to 1912, and Chairman of Committees from August, 1913, to July, 1914. He was also a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts from 1914 to 1917 and chairman of that committee in . 1920. Many of us were never associated with the late member, but it is in keeping with the traditions of the Senate that we should honour his memory. I extend to his widow and family our deepest sympathy. 
The Opposition associates itself with all that the Leader of the Senate has said regarding the late  Mr. Fowler.  The deceased gentleman began his parliamentary career at the inception of federation, and was a member of this Parliament for 22 years. He contributed in no mean degree to the foundation of the movement for federation, , and supplemented that good work as a member of this Parliament. To his widow and family we extend our sincere sympathy. 
On behalf of the members of the Country party in the Senate I support the motion which expresses ourappreciation of the public service rendered by the late Honorable James MacKinnon Fowler.  Mr. Fowler  was a prominent advocate of federation when in 1900 the people of Western Australia decided by public ballot" in favour of union. In 1901 he was elected to the first Commonwealth Parliament for the division of Perth, and he held that seat uninterruptedly for 22 years, during which period the policy of federation was consolidated. He was returned for the division of Perth at eight successive elections, and throughout his career in this Parliament he was a respected, capable and eloquent advocate of the interests of Western Australia, particularly in respect of tariff policy. We extend our sympathy to his widow and family. 
I did not know the late  Mr. Fowler,  but on behalf of the Australian Labour party - nonCommunist in this chamber, I 'extend sincere sympathy to his widow and family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable Henry Gregory, member for the Division of Swan in the House of Representatives and former State Minister, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and tenders its profound sympathy to' his widow and family in their bereavement. 
It is with great regret that I have to inform the Senate of the death on Friday last of the Honorable Henry Gregory, whowas member for the division of Swan, Western Australia, in the House of Representatives. 
Before entering the Commonwealth Parliament, the late member had been for many years a member of the "Western Australian Legislative Assembly, having been elected to that chamber in  1S97.  He was Minister for Mines from  1901  to  1904,  and Minister for Mines and Railways from  1905  to  1911.  He was acting Premier and Treasurer in  1910  to  1911.  Elected to the House of Representatives for the division of Dampier in  1913,  he represented that division till its abolition in  1922.  In  1922  he was elected for the division of Swan,, which he continued to represent until his death. 
He was a member of the Royal Commission on the Pearling Industry in  1913,  and chairman of the Royal Commission on Powellized Timber in  1914.  He was a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works from  1914  to  1926,  being chairman of that committee from October,  1917,  to February,  1926.  He was again a member of the same committee from February,  1929j  to November,  1931.  He was also a member of the Joint Select Committee on the Moving Picture Industry in Australia in  19-27,  and of the Royal Commission- on that industry in  1927-28.  In  19-35  he visited' England as a member of the Commonwealth delegation of the Empire Parliamentary Association. He was highly respected- by all of us, and his death removes one who gave many years of his life- to public service. I extend to  hi3  widow and family our deepest sympathy. 
The late  Mr. Gregory  was a remarkable personality. In years, he was the oldest member of this Parliament in which lie rendered outstanding service on behalf of Australia. Although for many years he did not enjoy robust health, he carried on uncomplainingly, and was always so cheerful that only those who knew him intimately realized how great was his suffering. Right up to the last, he was as keen mentally as at any period of his career, a fact which is apparent from the speeches he made during last session. In that regard he was most remarkable. Most honorable senators know his good wife quite well. All of us admire her wonderful devotion and attention to heu husband. The fullest sympathy of every one of us goes out to  Mrs. Gregory. 
It is with deep sorrow that I speak to this motion on behalf of members of the Country party- in this chamber. Australia has sustained' a- great loss through the passing of  Mr. Gregory.  He had been a. member of the House of Representatives without interruption since  1913,  a period of  27  consecutive years. He.wa3 an original member of the Australian  Country party, and was its first Deputy Leader. For the last  40  years his name has been a household word in Western Australia. He entered the State Parlia-ment in  1897  as the member for Menzies on the eastern gold-fields, and held that seat, mainly because of his vigorous personality, until  1911.  As the Minister for Mines in successive governments, he placed on the statute-book of Western Australia mining, laws that are recognized as being the best of their kind in the Empire. That legislation did much to assist the State in the establishment of its gold-mining industry. He also founded the system of State batteries for the purpose of aiding prospectors.  In  the Federal Parliament for over  27  consecutive years, the late  Mr. Gregory  wa3 always a valiant fighter for the interests of Western Australia in general and primary producers in particular. He was conspicuous in his endeavours to free the primary industries from the burdens of the tariff, and on more than one occasion he refused to accept ministerial -office rather than compromise on his fixed political principles in regard to protection. The amount of detailed work that he did on behalf of the primary industries during his long and busy life-time was enormous. 
The late  Mr. Gregory  was a firm friend and a loyal colleague. When I was first selected as a candidate for the Senate, he gave me every assistance in his power, both before and during- that election campaign and in each succeeding campaign-. I mourn the loss of a valiant friend who was a wise adviser in time of difficulty. He was ' one of the most influential workers for the Country party movement in Western Australia and in- the national sphere. Since 1897, a period of 43- years, he was one of the most prominent political leaders in his State. He was also one of the leaders of the federal 'movement, and in 1900 was an advocate of federation. He was always a capable, fearless and courteous fighter for principles that he considered ' to be right. Though he fought hard, he-fought fairly.  His  death leaves a vacancy in the public life of Western Australia and of the Commonwealth that cannot easily be filled. He is mourned by a host of friends and I am sure that the sympathy of this Senate is extended to  Mrs. Gregory,  whom we all know so well, and to his three sons and daughter.  Mr. Gregory's  long and useful life of public service will remain an inspiration to those who follow him. 
I desire to associate the party that I lead with the motion of condolence in respect of the death of'  Mr. Gregory,  and extend to his widow and family our sincere sympathy in their tragic loss. 
In associating myself with the remarks of previous speakers upon the motion, I wish to refer to the work -that the late  Mr. Gregory  performed on behalf of members of the Australian Imperial Force when they returned from the Great War. So' extensive and so greatly appreciated were his- activities in that sphere that the Western Australian branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia conferred on him its certificate of merit, which is one of the highest awards that can be bestowed by that organization, upon a member of the public. The late  Mr. Gregory  displayed a keen interest in all repatriation work, designed to fit returned soldiers to take a useful place in peace-time avocations. To his wife and. family I extend my deepest sympathy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Pursuant to Standing Order No. 28a I lay on the table my warrant, nominating Senators M. Abbott, S. K. Amour, W. J. Cooper, Herbert Hays and R. V. Eeane,  a panel  to act as Temporary Chairmen of Commiftees when requested so to do by : he  Chairman  of Committees, or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
Pursuant to Standing Order 38, I hereby appoint the following senators to be the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications: - Senators M. Abbott, J. I. Armstrong, J. S. Collings, B. Courtice, T. W. Crawford, W. G. Gibson andO. Uppill. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received from  Mrs. G.  A. Street, Lady Gullett, and  Mrs. J.  V. Fairbairn letters of thanks and appreciation for the resolutions of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the deaths of the  Hon.  G. A. Street, the  Hon. Sir Henry  Gullett and the  Hon.  J. V. Fairbairn. 
 by leave  - read a statement made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for the Navy relating to the accidental sinking of H.M.A.S.  Goorangai(vide  page 64). 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce say whether an agreement has been entered into between the Commonwealth and the States for the acquisition of the apple and pear crop for the season 1941? If such an agreement has been made, will the Minister give particulars to the Senate; if not, can he say when a settlement is likely to be reached? 
Several conferences have been held, and at the latest one held in Canberra on Monday last, representatives of the States conferred with the Minister for Commerce in regard to the apple and pear acquisition scheme for the coming year. Certain recommendations were agreed upon at that conference, and they are now being con sidered by the Government, which hopes to be able to make an announcement on this matter within a few days. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state when the final payment under the apple and pear acquisition scheme will be made, and will he institute inquiries as to whether or not the New Zealand Government is buying the whole of the surplus apple and pear crop in the Dominions for the season 1940-41? 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware of the decision made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to dispense with the services of Jim Davidson's dance band? Are we justified in assuming that the economy drive against  Mr. Davidson  is to offset the loss of £37,000 incurred by the  A.B.C. Weekly  in the first seven months of its publication? Will the Minister see that the Australian Broadcasting Commission dance band is retained at full strength, in view of its great popular appeal? 
The matter will receive consideration. 
In view of the danger of Tasmania being cut off from the mainland owing to interruption of the shipping service, what provision, if any, has the Government made for the storage of the foodstuffs, arms and munitions that would be necessary for the subsistence and protection of the Tasmanian people in the event of a local offensive? 
I assure the honorable senator that that matter has received and is still receiving the consideration of the Government, and following a conference with representatives of Tasmania appropriate steps have been taken. 
Can the Leader of theSenate give an assurance that adequate steps are being taken to maintain continuity of seaborne traffic between Tasmania and the mainland of Australia? 
Yes. 
In view of the possibility of further stoppages of the shipping service between Victoria and Tasmania by the laying of mines in Bass Strait, will the Postmaster-General give consideration to the inauguration of a continuous air mail service between Tasmania and the mainland in order to obviate a recurrence of recent conditions under which mails piled up in the Tas- manian post offices? 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development consider the desirability of inserting a clause in all Government contracts providing that successful tenderers must use the Commonwealth Bank to finance their undertakings, andso facilitate a reciprocity which, in view of the fact that all profits from the Commonwealth Bank go back to the nation,would bring in a considerable revenue ? 
I shall give consideration to the suggestion made by the honorable senator. 
In view of the barley harvest for the present season, is the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce in a position to say when the final payments will be made for the crop which has been put into the pool for the season. 1940? 
The Barley Board has done exceedingly good work in the disposal of last year's crop, and it is expected that the pool will be wound up within a reasonably short period. Until that be done, of course, final payments cannot bemade available to the growers. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce tell the Senate exactly what is the position with regard to flax-growers? How much per ton will they receive for their flax, to what points will they deliver, and will the farmers he paid-in full when their crops are harvested? 
The brief details of the scheme under which certain growers in Australia planted flax were agreed to. Farmers will receive £5 a ton for flax straw, properly headed, and for that payment they are asked' to deliver the flax to the mill in the district where the flax is grown, hut any cartage beyond 20 miles will be paid for at extra rates. Also, to farmers who have planted flax, the Commonwealth has undertaken to make a minimum payment of the cost of production, which is considered to be £4 10s. an acre. 
Yes, unthrashed flax straw. 
I should like to ask you,  Mr. President,  whether or not you have seen a press paragraph appearing under the caption "Film 'Shot' in Parliament " and reading as follows :  - 
Later inthe Senate, a special scene was enacted for  Mr. Jurgens. 

 Senator McLeay had to go throughan act of reading a bill. Other senators were to encourage him with comment and suitable gestures. 

 Senator McLeay announced, "I have abill here to reduce taxation ". 
There was loud laughter and the scenehad to be re-filmed. 
I should like to know,  Mr. President;  whether this farce was enacted with your consent, and whether there will be a preview of the pictureby yourself when it is finished. In the event of this scene being found to have been poorly acted, will you have the power to censor it.? 
After the Senate adjourned yesterday, certain photographs, as reported in the press, were taken. This was done with the concurrence of Ministers and myself, and I should be very pleased to extend the same courtesy to any other honorable senator who wishes to be photographed in similar circumstances. 
I ask the Assistant Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs why serious differentiation between the various States was allowed to occur in the administration of customs regulations regarding the release of spirits, ales and other dutiable goods, in anticipation of the presentation of the budget. 
Differentia tion such as is suggested by the honorable senator would be entirely wrong, but I am unaware that any such differentiation was made. I shall have inquiries made into the matter. 
 by leave  - read a statement made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Air  (Mr. McEwen)  regarding an engagement in Egypt between the Royal Australian Air Force and the Italian Air Force(vide page 65). 
Amongst the papers laid on the table of the Senate are the second annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year 1939-40, and the 12th annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year 1939-40, together with statements by the Minister regarding the operation of the acts; also the annual report for the year 1939-40 of the Australian Imperial Force Canteen Trust Fund and the 7th report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
With the concurrence of the Senate, I suggest that, in order to conserve stocks of paper, those reports be not printed as parliamentary papers. 
They will be available to honorable senators, but they will not be circulated in many quarters to which parliamentary papers are usually despatched. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General inquire into the broadcasting activities over South Australian stations of Dr.Grenfell Price, with a view to ascertaining over what stations  Dr. Price  speaks, whether these include national stations, and whether his typescript is subject to the customary preliminary scrutiny of the censor or the management of the station? 

 - Dr. Grenfell Price speaks over a commercial station.  His  speeches are censored. I have had the pleasure of listening to a number of them, and I regard them as excellent. 
.- I move - 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Speech be agreed to: - 

 To His Excellency the Governor-General - 

May It Please Your Excellency : 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I am deeply conscious of the honour which has been conferred upon me in being asked to move theAddressinReply. The motion includes an expression of loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign. Such a motion would at any time commend itself to all sections of this community, but at this period in our history the expression of our loyalty to  His  Majesty has special significance. I think that I can associate with that portion of the motion sentiments of goodwill towards all the peoples of this great Commonwealth of Nations, particularly the men and women of Great Britain, who, since the Commonwealth Parliament last assembled, have, in facing one of the greatest tragedies in history, displayed all those characteristics, including doggedness and courage, which have made the members of the British race famous. In the tragic circumstances which prevail, we cannot forget the dangers being faced by all the people of Great Britain from  His  Majesty the King down to the humblest citizen working in the mine- or in the fields. Within the last three months the people of Britain have written history before our eyes, and I venture to predict that when, the whole story is told it will be a record of courage and devotion such as has never been excelled in the history of the British race. During this period we in Australia have had the good fortune to continue our activities free from interruption or danger, to conduct a. general election, and in that way exercise to the full the rights which our democratic system provides. The general election may not have been quite as satisfactory as honorable senators on this side of the chamber desired, but it resulted in the return of the Menzies Government. I congratulate the Government upon the success it achieved. I also extend my personal congratulations to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  who, in his own electorate' received an overwhelming majority from the people who know. him best. The result of the election was a recognition by the people of Australia of the excellent work which this Government has performed since the outbreak of  war, and indicates the people's approval of the policy which was placed before them. The Government has received a mandate to continue to give effect to its policy directed to attaining victory in the great . conflict which is now being waged. 
Recently some of us were privileged to inspect some of the excellent work which is being performed in Australia in new industrial undertakings, particularly those concerned with aeroplane construction and' the manufacture of munitions-. The success which ha3 been achieved in this direction is due largelyto the solid foundations which have been laid. We must also pay tribute to the executives controlling the undertakings, and to the men and women who are giving of their best to ensure that our forces shall be supplied with the machines arid munitions which they need. 
 I experienced some disappointment when I learned that a national ministry, representative of all political parties in this Parliament, was not to be formed. I do .not intend to "throw bricks" or cast reflections upon any particular section; but I think that I am justified in saying that no blame can be attached to the party to which I belong. It is true that an .Australian Advisory War Council has been  established,  which, possibly, is the best alternative. It is better that we should have that than there should bo no machinery by which the representatives of all of the parties in this Parliament can assist in a co-operative movement towards the winning of the war.' The new body that has been created provides a. means whereby the representatives of the parties who meet in it may, at least, by the goodwill which I am sure they will all- display, reduce the number of the subjects upon which we are divided, and reach agreement more and more  upon  those things which are essential for the full attainment of the purpose that we have in view. 
I congratulate the Ministry upon one new departure which has been made in the course of the last few weeks. I. refer to the appointment of a Minister for Labour. It is apparent that continuous production in our factories, fields' and workshops is essential if we are to carry on the war effort at the full momentum which is required. I regret, and I am sure that many other members of this chamber also regret, that these activities have been interfered with in. some ]nea- sure by the occurrence of a few unfortunate strikes. For many years we have had a system of arbitration for the con: trol of conditions of labour, in order to ensure that, in the long run, the working men and women of this community, shall get a fair deal. "It is true that the system which has operated up to the present time is not free from imperfections. The Commonwealth arbitration system- is, unfortunately, limited in its operation by reason of the provisions of the Common^ wealth Constitution. In addition, we have had the difficulty of. conflicting dercisions by Commonwealth and State tribunals. Now, in this period of war, a great opportunity is presented to mould the  H'O  systems into a comprehensive whole, so that the Australian community may have a method of control of wages and working conditions which will be efficient and free from technicalities, and which will avoid the conflict that has hitherto occurred between the  awards  of State and Federal tribunals. I am sure that we all desire to. avoid unnecessary stoppages of. work, whether .by strikes or lock-outs. If we .desire,, for .the sake of the national war. effort, to avoid these things, I believe that the community should provide the workers with a system of arbitration, and --control of industrial disputes as efficient . as it can be made, so that there will be" no excuse for men to go on strike. . I have no doubt that the Minister for Labour and National Services, .in his consideration of' these matters, will here and there come across opportunities for improving and strengthening, the present- system, and I hope that- he will enable us to prevent the strikes- which, unfortunately, have been a feature -of the news during the last few weeks. By resort to arbitration we can do a great deal towards the ultimate' settlement of disputes, but we should also prevent their occurrence by a constant process of conciliation. The oversight, by departments such as the Department of Labour, of industrial activities and conditions, should go far towards preventing workmen from being tempted to leave their workshops and go on strike. 
I shall refer to one other matter which, I think, is worthy of the commendation of all of us - .the policy that has been pursued by the Government since the war began in protecting the community from undue increases of the prices of commodities. This is a subject near to the heart of the general mass of the community. I believe that the maintenance of stability in prices under conditions such as those now prevailing is a contributing factor to the maintenance of industrial peace. It is well known that the people who suffer most in a period of rising prices are those working on wages and salaries, for wages and salaries never catch up with the increased cost of living. This Government has, since the commencement of the war, followed such an intelligent financial and economic policy that we have been able to avoid the worst features of the evil of rising prices which manifested itself in the course of the last war. The Department of Commerce has recently published a most interesting booklet concerning the whole machinery of the control of prices, and the record which has been obtained i3 a matter of great satisfaction, I am sure, to the Minister in charge of that department, and also to the commissioner and other officers who have worked efficiently under him. For the first eleven months of this war, retail priceshave risen by only 1.9 per cent., as compared with 40 -per cent, in the first elevenmonths of the last war. That may be said to be not- a fair comparison, because the circumstances are different. It is true, of course, that we have had the advantage during this war of the knowledge and experience gained by the mistakes of the war of 1914-18; but similarly favorable figures are obtained when we compare prices in this country with those in the United Kingdom. Wholesale prices of food and groceries in Australia rose during the first eleven months of the war by 14 per cent., whilst in the United Kingdom they increased by 42 per cent. Retail prices in Australia during the same period' rose, as I have said, by only 1.9 per cent,., but in the United Kingdom they increased by 1S.S per cent., or  nearly  onefifth. 
I express my commendation of the Government upon the appointment to the important office of Minister Plenipotentiary to Japan of one well known to all members of this Parliament -  Sir John  Latham. I believe that the Commonwealth has to-day, and in the years to come, a most important  part to play in the affairs of the Pacific because of its position in that ocean. The Government is to be congratulated, not only upon the creation of this new diplomatic post, but also upon having been able to secure the services of one so able and so well fitted as  Sir John  Latham is to perform such an important task. In the last few months, some of the effects of the appointment of  Mr. Casey  as the representative of Australia at Washington have become evident. I have no doubt that he has played an important part in the growth in the United States of America of the friendly sentiment that is so manifest there to-day towards British people, and which is of vital importance to us in regard to the successful prosecution of the war. 
Thi3 Parliament now meets during the most momentous period in the history of not only this Commonwealth, hut also our Empire. We are at the moment, perhaps, in the valley of the shadow, and we feel we have a long and thorny path to fol.low; but I think that we are all conscious of the fact that, although darkness may surround us, we can see ahead the first glimmering of dawn. We are confident that we shall pass beyond the valley of the shadow into the brilliant sunshine, before the sun i3 at its zenith, and that there we shall enjoy the green pastures of victory and the still waters of peace. My fervent hope is that the members of this Parliament- may still be here when that happy day dawns, and that, in addition to dealing with the problems of war, we shall have a hand in the establishment of a just- and lasting peace. 
I have pleasure in seconding the motion for the adoption of the excellent Speech delivered by the Governor-General, setting -out the legislative proposals and policy of the United Australia party-United Country party Government led by  Mr. Menzies  for the present short parliamentary session. In passing, I' congratulate  Senator Spicer  upon his maiden speech in this Parliament; it showed that he is a valuable addition to the fighting and debating forces behind the Government. Every member of the Senate joins in. the expression of loyalty to the Throne contained in the motion, and, like  Senator Spicer,  sympathizes with the people of Great Britain, and of London in particular, in the terrible ordeal through which they are passing. It is well to remember that unless victory, attends British arms, it will be only a matter of time before we in Australia will be subjected to somewhat similar treatment. 
Whilst admitting that the war position is grave, the Speech states that recent events strengthen the confidence of the Government in ultimate victory. Although the difficulties and dangers con fronting the British Empire are greater than at any other time in its history, the Speech indicates that the German plans for the invasion of Britain have, for the time being at least, been foiled. The Speech makes it clear that the Avar position is such that- the whole Empire must pull its- full weight if victory .is to be achieved. Australia's maximum effort can be obtained only by the full use of all of our resources - men, material and ]non CV - in one united effort; the support of the whole of the people and of every poli tical party is necessary. I commend " the Menzies Government for its attempts to secure the co-operation of all political parties in Australia's war effort. Those endeavours have been only partly successful, but I prefer to speak of the measure of success that has been achieved rather than of the degree to which the Government's efforts have failed. 
I am glad that since the election .an Advisory War Council, representative of all political parties in this Parliament, has been set up under the authority of the National Security Act. The functions of the council are to advise the Government regarding Australia's war effort and the problems relating thereto. The forma-: tion of this advisory council and Labour's participation in it is a step - if only a short one - in the right direction. It is interesting to' note that the War Council, one half of whose members represent the two Labour parties  in this  Parlia-ment,  has- given grave consideration, to industrial stoppages- in. war-time. If the frequent stoppages, or: strikes, from which Australia has suffered with  alarming  frequency during the war, can. bc prevented by the establishment, 0L the Advisory War Council and the setting ups of a Ministry, of Labour, these innovations will have more than justified themselves. The Speech sets out that' industrial disturbances, constitute a. real blow- at our. national security. All honorable- senators will admit that Australia is provided5 with adequate and easily accessible1 machinery for the settlement of disputes1 and the adjustment of' grievances by arbitration. Consequently, there can be' no justification for direct- action, and Ihope that we shall' have no recurrences of ill-advised- strikes while the war  lasts  I hope that Labour's participation in ti- 
War Council is a step towards a much closer co-operation with the Government in the conduct of the war. Both before and during the recent election I advocated the formation of a real national government, in which Labour would accept its fullshare of responsibility for the administration of activities associated with the war effort. I do not wish to say anything which may render such co-operaation more difficult, but I am sorry that Labour did not accept the generous offer of eight portfolios in a government of sixteen members which Mr.Menzies made since the election. 
So far asI am aware, the offer of  Mr. Menzies  is still open, and if that be so, I hope that wiser counsels will prevail and that the offer will be accepted by the parties opposite. The best brains in this Parliament should be in a national ministry to guide Australia's war-time effort in these dangerous times. Only by such full cooperation can Australia play its part. Should Labour decide to join in a national government, it will follow the magnificent example set by the Labour party in Great Britain, where Messrs. Bevin, Attlee, Morrison and others, hold important portfolios in the War Cabinet with the full approval of the trade union movement of Great Britain. Labour's participation in a national government had the support of 23,000,000 trade unionists, whilst only a few tens of thousands of them opposed the proposal on a card vote. I believe that the trade unionists of Australia would record a similarly overwhelming vote in favour of a. national government if they were consulted. 
The trade unionists of Australia have never been consulted as were their fellow unionists in Great Britain by the calling of a convention to consider the formation of a national government. In Great Britain the rank and file of the Labour movement in the United Kingdom authorized the acceptance of portfolios by their leaders. I hone that their example will yet be followed in Australia. 
I heartily congratulate the Government on its return to power as the result of the recent general election, and particularly on the signal' moral victory that it achieved, as is evidenced by the result of the Senate election. The Senate is the more democratic of the two branches of the legislature, for it springs direct from the people who record their opinions 
Onbroad principles of policy. In five of the six States their opinion was recorded decisively in favour of the present Government, which advocated the formation of a national ministry. If honorable senators wish to draw any conclusion from the election figures, I direct their attention to the fact that those candidates who advocated a national ministry and held the gate open for Labour to enter it, were returned in five of the six States. I regard the vote for Senate candidates as a truer reflection of the will of the people than the votes cast for the House of Representatives, because the Senate vote is not so influenced by parochial considerations. I can quote no better authority for that statement than the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber on the 1st December, 1937. The Government should be gratified that it still retains a majority in the House of Representatives. It is true that that majority is small, but it is likely to be increased in the near future. There is no doubt that the Government will he able to retain the reins of office unless and until a national government is formed. 
The Speech points out that the principal business of the present sittings of the Parliament will be the making of financial provision for the carrying on of our share of the war, and for the ordinary public services. So far as I am concerned, the paramount question for our consideration is how best we can organize Australia's war effortfor the successful prosecution of the war. We all hope that victory will soon be achieved ; but until that is done every other issue must be subservient to the vigorous prosecution of the war. 
The Speech tells us that, within a few days, the Treasurer will introduce a budget which will place on the Australian people burdens heavier than they have ever before been called upon to bear. 
The courteous action of the Opposition in the House of Representatives in agreeing to the suspension of the Standing Orders will enable the budget to be introduced into that chamber to-day. The Speech does not disclose any details of the heavy taxation which it foreshadows, but we know that this year's budget will be a record, for it will provide for tlie raising of no less than £277,000,000, of which £1S6,000,000 is to be set aside for :war and defence purposes. That is an enormous sum for a little over 7,000,000 people to contemplate raising. Of course, expenditure on- this tremendous scale must involve heavy increases of "both direct and indirect taxation. The imposition of heavier burdens' on the people is never popular, but this is an occasion on which an increase of taxes in order to provide a more substantial contribution towards the cost of the war cannot -'be questioned by any responsible person. Most Australians realize that, in this war, our national existence -is at stake. They realize that no sacrifice is too heavy and no price too high to ensure the safety of our land and the freedom of our people. They only ask, and ask vigorously, that the taxes shall be levied on the basis of ability to pay. The burden must be distributed in accordance with , the capacity of the various classes of the community to meet additional imposts. That, I believe, is the policy of the Government. 
AH I have to guide me is the GovernorGeneral's Speech, and that does not give any details. However, I confidently expect that the increased , taxes will be levied according to the capacity of the various classes of the community to pay- 
At any rate that is what I expect. I think we can reasonably believe that those who can afford to pay the most will be required to pay the most. 
And so they will. 
The taxpayers will willingly meet the Government's demands, provided the  assurances  to which they are entitled are given. They are entitled to an assurance that the huge sums which they will be called upon to pay will 'be wisely spent, that all waste will be eliminated, and that extravagances which would not be permitted in time of- peace shall not 'be practised in this time of war. 
I should like to say a few words - under other circumstances I should probably have quite a lot to say - about the- wheat industry. A conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers met in  Canberra  last Monday, and a Commonwealthwide wheat stabilization scheme extending over a- long period was adopted. I have been assured that the State Premiers have accepted the scheme. 
He is also to be commended for having secured the increased price of 3s.10d. a bushel f.o.b. at ports for bagged wheat, which represents a considerable increase on what was proposed by his predecessor. The approved plan is as follows: - 
There will be a guaranteed price of 3s.10d. per bushel f.o.b. ports, bagged wheat. All costs of receiving, handling, railage, storage and placing on board will be found out of this price. 
Provisionwill be made for the creation of a fund, into which surplus market realizations will be paid in years of high price to meet debits resulting from payments to the industry in years of low price. Surplus realizations over and above the amount of 3s. 10d. per bushel f.o.b.ports for bagged wheat will be shared equally between the fund and the producers. 
Wheat-growers will make application for registration of their properties and for licences for themselves; the application for a licence will contain an undertaking to adhere  to conditions, of which the following will be the principal.: - 
The licensee will sow the acreage authorized from year to year by the Government; in deciding thisacreage, the Commonwealth Government will have regard to the maximum marketed crop on which the guarantee will operate, viz., 140,000,000 bushels. 
He will market through the Australian Wheat Board all wheat harvested as grain. 
He will cut for hay in any year such acreage as might be directed by the Government; directions of this kind will be given in years when a heavy crop is in prospect. Arrangements will be made for the purchase of hay under a fodder conservation plan. 
As required, he will furnish returns to enable the Government to investigate production costs. 
The form of application for a licence will indicate that the Government guarantee is for 3s.10d. per bushel f.o.b. ports on bagged wheat in respect of a total marketed crop in Australia of not more than 140,000,000 bushels. 
Provision will be made for the transfer of licences in respect of registered properties. It is not proposed that farms on which wheat is not now being grown will be registered in future as wheat-growing properties.The object of this is to confine the stabilization plan to farms and farmers at present growing wheat. 
The plan, which will commence to operate in respect of the 1941-42 . harvest, will be authorized under theNational Security Regulations at the earliest possible moment: It was discussed fully with the State Premiers, who have assured the Government, through  Sir Earle  Page, that they will assist to the fullest degree with their administrative organizations in the implementing of the plan. Commonwealth and State officials will immediately collaborate in working out the details of the scheme: 
The State governments have undertaken that during the operation of the stabilization plan they will not increase rail freights on wheat. 
Many important conditions are incorporated in that plan. I have not seen all of them published, but I feel sure that the scheme will be of great interest to the people concerned. 
I am glad that some finality is in view in connexion with the wheat industry. I admit that I would have much preferred a payment of 3s.10d. a bushel f.o.r. ports instead of f.o.b. ports, and. even at this late stage I urge the Government, as a generous . gesture to the industry, to make the price- 3s.10d. a bushel f.o.r. I see no. reason, why the farmers should have to gamble on the cost of storage should shipping transport be difficult during a period of months or even years after the wheat has been acquired by theCommonwealth Government. I submit that the wheat is the property of the Commonwealth Government as soon as it is handed over by the wheat-growers, and the farmersshould not be asked to take a chance on whether it will take a few months or a few years to ship their wheat overseas. However, the Premiers, including the Premier of the wheat-growing State of Western Australia, have agreed on the arrangement which, I take it,will be regarded by both the Commonwealth and State Governments as final. 
With regard to the coming harvest, which is not included in this scheme, it appears that owing to widespread drought there will be a considerably reduced crop, estimated at 75,000,000 bushels for the whole of the Commonwealth. 
It will probably be half that quantity. 
In conclusion, I congratulate Ministers on the Government's return at the recent election, and each Minister on his retention of a portfolio. 
 I do not wish to confine my congratulations1 to honorable senators on this side of the chamber. I' congratulate  Senator Collings  on his re-election as Leader of the Opposition, a position which he has filled for several years with  energy, ability, great versatility and fairness. He has done his work so capably that I hope lie will remain Leader of the Opposition in this' chamber for at least the next three years, or until his party, in its wisdom,, should decide to participate in the formation of a national, government. I hope that this session will be fruitful, and that we shall accomplish much good and useful work in the interests of the people of Australia. 
In view of the eulogy of myself just voiced by  Senator Johnston,  I almost feel too modest to say anything at all  Upon  this occasion. I congratulate  Senator .Spicer  -on' his speech: He gave evidence of debating ability of which the Government parties in this, chamber are sorely in. need. By  Senator Spicer's  advent, the Government's serious deficiency in that respect is- partly relieved. ' I regret that the Government senators did hot show, due appreciation-  of-  the fact that a new colleague of theirs in this chamber was making his maiden speech. While  Senator Spicer  was speaking, only six Government senators were present in the chamber, although, I ani proud to say, thirteen honorable senators on this side remained to hear what he had to say. In the course of his remarks,  Senator Spicer  said that he had no desire to throw bricks. I remind him that throwing bricks . is a dangerous practice; along that road there is two- way traffic.  Senator Johnston's  speech, of course, was characteristic of whatthe honorable senator does whenever a by-election is pending in Western Australia. . Nevertheless, I commend him on. the speech he made, just as I commend  the Government on its decision in respect of the wheat industry. Obviously, the Government did only what it is wise politically for it to do on the eve of a by-election. I could not follow the mover and seconder of the motion in their repeated congratulations of the Government upon certain decisions the value of which seems- to me to be more apparent than real. Before replying specifically to - those honorable senators, however, I propose to deal with the Governor-General's Speech. 
All of us know; of. course, that the Speech was not prepared by the GovernorGeneral himself. If that were the case, I should feel much more inclined to let it pass without comment, because I should not like to be severe in my criticism of a gentleman of the calibre of  His Excellency.  The Speech was, of course, prepared by the Government, and simply delivered by the Governor-General on its behalf. It contains a serious flaw; I . should say, indeed, a positive -blot which should never have been allowed to appearin such a document. Members of thisOpposition, of course, do not need, evenon an occasion such as this, to reiterate, their loyalty to the Throne, or their desire to see the war brought to a successful conclusion. The people of Australia know just exactly where the Opposition stands in this matter. And that is equally true of honorable senators opposite. No. real necessity exists for continual repetition of our loyalty to the Throne, although, perhaps, it is wise that we express such loyalty upon, certain- occasions. A portion of the Speechis' highly provocative to, not only the Opposition, but also a huge percentage of the workers of this country, upon whom alone the success of our war effort must' depend, be it - in the ' fighting forces abroad or at home, on land or sea, in the air, in the fields, factories, mines or workshops of Australia. That statement refers to the attitude of our industrial workers. Without one word in mitigation of it, or apology for it, the Speech contained the implication that the workers of  this country are prepared to he disloyal and to- withhold their maximum support of Australia's war effort. That charge is a slander on that class which the Opposition represents in this chamber. It -is a slander on the class of men who alone, so far as Australia's effort is concerned, can bring this war to a successful conclusion for  the  Empire Forces. -The particular statement to which I refer is : - 
Already several meetings of this council-have taken p.ace with useful results- -.   In particular, tlie council has given consideration to the question of industrial stoppages during war-time, and has been able to make recommendations which my advisers hope will-: lead to a perfecting of. the machinery of industrial peace, and at the same time to a maintenance of full and uninterrupted labour and production. 
The Government feels strongly that, in a country in which there is adequate and- accessible machinery for the settlement of disputes and the adjustment of grievances, there can Lie no justification for direct action. 
That statement is untrue. There does not exist, and there has not existed for years, any adequate and easily accessible machinery for the settlement of industrial disputes, which would entitle the Governor-General to say that the workers of Australia can have no justification for direct action. The statement continued - 
This is particularly true in time of -war, when any cessation of work in a war industry, or in any industry which is related to the war effort, constitutes a real blow at the national security. A fortnight's work in some munitions factory, once Lost, can never be recovered. It means inevitably at least a fortnight's delayin the production of some gun, some piece of ammunition or some equipment urgently, and in some cases desperately, needed by Australians serving in a theatre of war. 
 That statement is entirely unnecessary and unwarranted. It is a discredit to the Government that framed it'' and put it into the innocent mouth of - the  Governor-General.  Men do not go on strike for' fun. At the moment, no machinery is available in Australia for the immediate and easy settlement of industrial disputes. Whilst I am not suggesting that the existing machinery is not valuable, it is devised only to serve our peace-time needs. No machinery is available to cope with the altered conditions that prevail in industry in time of- war. May I say, with pardonable pride,-' that the Australian Advisory- War Council is the creation of the rank and file of the Labour party, sitting in conference first in Canberra and later in Melbourne. The delegates who attended those assemblies decided that Labour would co-operate with the Government in the establishment of such a council. I am willing, however, to give to the Government credit for,the intention to make the council operate, satisfactorily. 
This afternoon, Senator1 Johnston referred to what he described as the magnanimous offer made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  to the Labour: party of eight out of sixteen seats in the Cabinet, if it would agree to join with the United Australia party and the United Country party in -forming a national  government. I want it to go on record that the Prime Minister never made any such offer to the Labour party until a few weeks ago. Time after time, conferences of tlie Labour movement and members of the Opposition in this Parliament declared that they would not participate in a. national government. Consequently, the Prime Minister knew that he was perfectly safe in making such an offer to the Labour party. In his first proposal for the formation of a national government, he suggested that the Labour party should have four or five seats in a cabinet of sixteen. . 
I know what I am talking about. The Prime Minister offered four or five seats. When the right honorable gentleman found that " thatcock would not fight ", he increased his offer to five or six seats. I emphasize, however, that he never offered the Labour party eight seats in the Cabinet until he had ample evidence that the offer would not be accepted. In those circumstances, he would have been perfectly secure in offering the Labour party ten of the sixteen seats. We were not to be bought by the offer of ministerial salaries. 
Yes, in an honorary capacity, in order that the Government might not be continually ignorant about those phases of war problems -which affect the people whom we on this side of the chamber represent. I am very pleased to read in the press that a sane attitude towards industrial troubles is now being adopted by the council. "While speaking upon this subject, I propose to read a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  dealing with this very matter. He said - : 
In the question of war-time industry and  machinery  to ensure production and regulation of  conditions is  involved the- very core of our economic capacity to wage war. Should abuses develop and not be checked they will impair the maximum effort of industry. It is unrealistic to expect that the burdens will be borne on a basis of inequality. Justice in industry must be the watchword.. Speed must be the characteristic in the consideration, of claims and complaints; decisions must be prompt and - not put off- by eternal circumlocution and even evasion. 
May l interpolate, in reply to what has been said by honorable senators opposite on this subject, that some unions filed plaints before industrial tribunals two years ago and the cases have not yet been heard. The statement made by the Leader of the Opposition continued - 
The council has declared unanimously the principles whereby the machinery in this connexion will be shaped to meet war-time problems. I have no doubt that the requisite steps will he taken and stoppages to production will not take- place. Our safety cannot afford these dislocations. The sustaining of an expanding programme of more equipment, ordnance, munitions, aeroplanes, ships and supplies is essential if we are to hold all that we have. To lose one hour of production is to make a gift of that hour and what could have been produced in it to the enemy. 
Therefore, the Australian War Council, on a basis of complete political cohesion, has taken the initiative. ' It is demonstrative of thewisdom associated with the establishment of the council that on this question complete agreement was' reached. 
Let us have no more talk about the efficiency of the machinery which is already in existence -for dealing with industrial disputes. I deeply regret that statements have been made to the effect that workers go on strike and do serious things in this period of national emergency merely for the sake of doing them, or holding up the war effort. The Government must realize that the war has created new conditions in industry. By way of illustration, I point out that factories to undertake the manufacture of materials required in the war effort have been erected or are in operation in districts where no such establishments stood or were in operation a year ago. Many of the men employed in these industrial undertakings are obliged to travel long distances daily to and from their homes, and their fares amount in some cases to as much as 12s 6d. a week. As the Government desired them to work in those industries," they do not intend to run the risk of being compelled to pay the 12s. 6d. a week out of their own pockets. Furthermore, they do notpropose to wait until all the  circumlocutory  processes associated with the filing and hearing of a plaint before the. Arbitration Court have been completed. Before they start work, or so soon as they discover the true situation, they demand a guarantee that they will not be called upon personally to take from the family breakfast table the means with which to defray these heavy transport charges. Admittedly, such situations are new, and Ministers could not have been expected. to anticipate them; but what the Govern-r ment can be expected to do, and what the Advisory War Council has agreed to do, is' to establish machinery for dealing more expeditiously with workers' complaints. When that is done, members of the Opposition will be prepared, as  Mr. Curtin  has done, to ask the men not to strike but to avail themselves of that machinery and go on with the job, confident that their difficulties will be adequately dealt with. That i3 all that the Labour party asks. But if I were to read to thousands of workers engaged in war industries that portion of the Governor-General's Speech relating to industrial disturbances and- told them that that was the language which- the Government put into  His  Excellency's, mouth, I should be merely, trailing the Government's coat, and inflaming the passions of my people.  Mr. Ernest  Bevin, Minister for Labour in the British Government, stated that he was asking his  people to make sacrifices and to do thingswhich they had never previously been called upon to undertake. He added that the workers in Britain were responding, nobly to the call. Incidentally, no one can say that Australians have not' responded nobly to the call to arms and to work. But  Mr.- Bevin  contended that because the workers of Great Britain had so nobly answered his appeal for cooperation he had to be sure that no person in the community would make a profit out of their sacrifices. The Commonwealth Government has to meet a similar position, and it will not succeed in doing soif it places in  His  Excellency's mouth such provocative statements as the one which I have quoted. 

 Senator Spicer, when referring tothe cost of living, made- certain remarks of which the Opposition entirely approves. For example, he declared that wages never catch up with rising prices. I hope that he will remember that assertion, because we shall confront him with it .  later if legislation which will not assist wages to overtake prices should be introduced. Whereas prices go up in the lift, wages walk very slowly and tediously up the stairway. But so soon as a slump occurs, the wages of the toilers, not prices, fall quickly. I ask  Senator Spicer  not to allow the booklet issued by Professor Copland, or any statements which emerge from the office of the Prices Commissioner, to deceive him. On such matters he should keep an open mind. In some quarters, it has been stated that the prices of food and clothing, compared with the inflated prices of similar commodities in other countries, have risen by only 1.9 per cent. Such comparisons mean nothing. Nobody knows better than the housewives of Australia, particularly the wives of the workers, that to talk about a rise of only 1.9 per cent. in the cost of living since the outbreak of war is to insult their intelligence and their knowledge of facts that daily come painfully under their notice. It is all very well to take a selected few commodities and rig figures in order to make them look convincing. 
Every day of the week, in every newspaper, we read this kind of bed-time story. We know that it is not true. 
I remind the honorable senator of the somewhat hackneyed aphorism: " Figures cannotlie, but liars can figure." There are some persons who are paid to manipulate figures and who can lie very convincingly. 
I do not suggest that he is. But if honorable senators accept the statement that the cost of living to the working class has risen by only 1.9 per cent. since the outbreak of war, they will believe anything. Such a statement is demonstrably untrue. The price of every commodity that the ordinary household consumes has increased. 
I am under no compulsion to endeavour to achieve the impossible, namely to convince  Senator Herbert  Hays of the correctness of my remarks; but only yesterday a thick volume issued by the Prices Commissioner was placed upon my table. In this booklet, which will require a considerable amount of reading, the claim is made that the cost of living has not appreciably risen since the outbreak of war. I contend that the price of every commodity consumed by the average household has increased considerably during the last twelve months. 
Doubtless by that interjection, the Minister thinks that he has led me up the garden path. I shall give him a concrete example. In to-day's press appears a report that the price of lollies has risen considerably. 
Does the Minister contend that lollies are not an article of consumption? If the Minister gave his children½d. to spend at the school tuck-shop at lunch time, he would quickly learn how they came crying to their mother that they received only two peppermint lollies for the money whereas previously they obtained four. The Minister interjected " What about the price of sugar?" The fact that the price of sugar, unlike that of other commodities, has not been increased, is because the price is fixed by  the Queensland Government. The Commonwealth Government, to its credit,has supported that control by renewing the sugar agreement. In that way the Commonwealth Government has assisted the Queensland sugar industry, and for that we who come from Queensland are grateful. Although the retail price of sugar has not been increased, it would be difficult to find an Australian housewife who could say that the price of almost every other household commodity has not increased. Before  Senator Johnston  indulged in a peroration which was a eulogy of myself he congratulated the Government upon the establishment of the Australian Advisory War Council. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - Yes, as a second thought. The honorable senator went on to say that he hoped that the action of the Labour party in that respect was indicative of greater co-operation by that party in Australia's war effort. There cannot be any greater co-operation in Australia's war effort by the members of the Labour party in this chamber, or in the House of Representatives, or in fact by all sections of the Australian people than has already been manifested. The Prime Minister has made that admission, and honorable senators opposite know that my statement is true. There is no disunity in Australia's war effort. In every direction there has been complete co-operation, and since the declaration of war the representatives of the people in this Parliament, and the workers of Australia, from whose ranks the fighting men and those who are working in our factories and in our mines are drawn, have shown a strong desire to assist in every way. The Prime Minister has said that the support received from the workers has been wonderful. The members of the Opposition in both branches of this legislature have honoured the promise made at the outbreak of hostilities that they would not impede the passage of war legislation or oppose the appropriation of money essential for the prosecution of the war. That statement by the representatives of the Opposition, is one with which the Australian people are well acquainted. 
On behalf of the Opposition in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, I repeat that there will be no lack of co-operation so far as we are concerned, but we expect from the Government the same degree of co-operation, that we have extended to it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
I lay on the table- 
Estimates of receipts and expenditure, and estimates of expenditure, additions, new works, buildings,&amp;c., for the year ending the 30th June, 1941; The Budget 1940-1941.- Papers presented by the Honorable A. W. Fadden, M.P., on the occasion of the Budget 1940-1941. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  proposed - 
That Standing OrderNo. 14 be suspended to permit the moving of a motion for the printing of the Papers before the Address-in-Reply is proceeded with. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  J.  B. Hayes). -  There being an absolute majority of honorable senators present, and no dissentient voicebeing raised, I declare the motion agreed to. 
I move - 
That the papers be printed. 
In introducing the budget for 1940-41 in the House of Representatives to-day, the Treasurer (Mr.Fadden) said that it was his unfortunate task to introduce  a  revenue budget of £150,000,000. The financing of a war-time budget of this magnitude necessitates taxation proposals which represent the heaviest financial impost ever placed upon the people of Australia. An economic review of the year shows that a somewhat adverse position following the outbreak of war resulted in some increase of unemployment and a decline of normal business activity. This situation was effectively dealt with by the Government's policy in refraining from increased taxation and. in stimulating economic activity in conjunction with the diversion of our resources from civil to war purposes. Civil employment has increased since the outbreak of war by80,000 or by about 4 per cent., despite large enlistments in the various forces. Increased prices for  our primary products and the improved position of employment has contributed to the increase of om- national income by more than 9 per cent., from £788,000,000 in 1938-39 to £863,000,000 in 1939-40. The Government's policy of low interest rates has been followed by a decrease averaging 1 per cent, of the yield »on Government securities, combined with a reduction of rates on  treasury-bills,  bank deposits and overdrafts. Price control, in which the business world has co-operated, continues to operate successfully in preventing profiteering, and has restricted the increase in the " all-items " index of retail prices to less than 5 per cent. 
Honorable senators will remember that the tentative budget of September, 1939, was followed by revised estimates in November, 1939. It was not surprising that actual results for- 1939-40 differed in some important respects from the revised estimates. On the revenue side, customs and excise realized £53,825,000, an increase of £8,465,000 over the November estimate. This result was mainly caused by the unexpected restoration of overseas trade, by importers placing heavy orders in anticipation of future difficulties of supply, and the fact that import restrictions did not become effective for several months. Other, items, excluding the self-balancing flour tax, resulted in. a net improvement of £2,620,000, mainly income tax £1,530,000 and sales tax £776,000. 
Defence and war expenditure from revenue was estimated at £13,780,000 and, in addition, Parliament appropriated for this purpose an' additional £9,000,000 later in the year. The actual charge on the budget was £24,283,000, which, with £28,S14,000 from Loan Fund and £2,017,000 from Trust Fund, brought the total, expenditure- on defence and war services to £55,114,000. Of this amount, £45,229,000 was expended in Australia and £9,885,000 overseas. The year closed with excess receipts of £2,92S,000, which Parliament will be asked shortly to appropriate for war expenditure this year. During 1939-40, two public loans were floated on the- Australian market, both of which: were fully subscribed. The first, for £18,000,000,' was issued in March, 1940, at par, with interest at 3$ per cent, for five years or 3 per cent, for ten to sixteen years. Of this sum, about £S,000,000 was for defence purposes aud the balance for public works of the Commonwealth and the States. The second, in May, 1940, of £20,000,000 issued at par, with interest at 2-J per cent, for five years or 3^ per cent, for 10-16 years, was solely, for war purposes. The Commonwealth. Bank in conjunction with the trading banks also provided a special loan- in December, 1939, of £12,000,000, of which £2,000,000 was for defence works of low priority and the balance for works and other purposes "of the Commonwealth and States. There has been, a valuable response by the public to the war savings certificate campaign, resulting in the purchase by the 30th June, 1940, of war savings certificates to the face value of- £7,636,000. This figure has since been raised to over £15,000,000. Interest-free loans by the citizens of Australia for war purposes, had reached £3,864,000 by the 30th June, 1940, and the- total' has since reached' £5,100,000. In addition, gifts for war purposes now total £585,000, and these patriotic efforts by the people  of Australia are greatly appreciated by the Government. During the year, £11,041,000  was provided by the National Debt Sinking Fund for debt redemption, of which- £4,934,000 was on account of the Commonwealth and £6,107,000 on account of the States. For the current year, a total of £13,000,000- will be available. The aggregate Australian public debt increased by £46,031,000 during 1939-40. The increase of £38,076,000 on account of the Commonwealth was practically all for war purposes, and the balance of £7,955,000 was on account of the States. 
Turning to the year 1940-41, we find that the estimated total revenue based on rates of taxation in force prior to May, 1940, is about £105,000,000. The increased taxes imposed in May last should produce additional revenue of approximately £14,000,000, making the estimated total for 1940-41 on rates now in force £1.19,000,000. Customs and excise revenue is estimated at £48,800,000 against receipts last year of £53,800,000. This allows for a. substantial fall compared with last year's abnormal results and for the full effect of the restrictions on imports from n'on-sterling countries. On the other hand, 'allowance has been made for the increased, duties imposed in May last.  Income tax is expected to produce £20,750,000, an increase' of £4,000j000, whilst sales tax is estimated at £17,00.0,000, an- increase of £5,000,000. For land tax, £l-,500,000 of additional receipts is- expected.- . - These increases reflect the increased' rates imposed last May.- ; The restrictions on- imports imposed up to the' 1st' October resulted in the prohibition of imports "valued iii 1938-39 at £11,000,000. Rationing of certain goods and' restrictions on imports not specifically prohibited have assisted in the decided reduction of the drain on nonsterling exchange. Notwithstanding the savings in dollars already effected, the pressure' on the ' Empire's resources may well need further relief. 
In reviewing the estimated expenditure for 1940-41, apart from defence and war, it should be noted that improved conditions during the past year are reflected in the- smaller increase of £641,000 in invalid and old-age pensions, which are expected to cost £17,100,000. An additional £90,000 is provided for the valuable work of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, whilst £29,200 is included for the establishment of the new legation in Japan. There has not been sufficient time to provide for expenditure of the new Department of Labour and National Service, which will be included later in Supplementary Estimates. 
For public works of a civil character provision is made for. £5,596,000, against £4,976,000 expended in . 1939-40. These amounts include £2,000,000 and £1,883,000  respectively . for Post Office works from loan fund. Civil aviation works are expected to cost £763,000, including £175,000; from trust account. 
Defence ' works estimated to cost' £21,000,000,' which are included in thewar programme, are being carried out in co-operation with- the States, in  accordance  with the plan instituted by the Loan Council. - 
In addition to' the total works expenditure, for 1940-41, which is estimated at £30,000,000, other works have been approved, mainly connected with internal transport services which would be essential in the event of serious disturbance of our coastal trade. These works, es'timated to cost £6,600,000  during the next two years, will be shared by the Commonwealth and the States. " The Government has' adopted the recommendation of " the Commonwealth Grants Commission, under which "the special grant' to South Australia will be £1,000,000, to" Western Australia, £650,000 and to tasmania, £400,000. The total is £30,000 more than last year, representing an increase of ,£5,000- to South Australia and £55.000 to Western Australia, with a reduction of £30,000 in the case of Tasmania. 
 It should be borne in mind that the grant to Western Australia for 1939-40 is a net figure after deducting an advance of £136,000 in 1937-3S for drought relief. The normal figure for 1939-40 was, therefore, £731,000, in comparison with which the grant this year shows a reduction of £81,000. . 
The budget includes the payment of £150,000 to the States for encouragement of the gold-mining industry, and provision is also made for the estimated loss of £750,000- on the Apple and Pear Acquisition Scheme, which was guaranteed by the Government. 
The total civil expenditure from revenue is estimated at £84,853,000, which, deducted from an estimated revenue of £13 9,000,000 based on existing rates of taxation, leaves approximately £34,000,000 available for defence and war purposes. 
Following on the establishment of the Australian Wheat Board and the conferences between' Commonwealth and State Ministers, the Government has now adopted a war-time plan, which will be authorized under National Security Regulations, for the stabilization of the wheat industry. Commencing with the 1941-42 harvest, the guarantee provides for 3s. lOd. a bushel f.o.h. for bagged wheat, on a marketed crop not exceeding 140,000,000 bushels. Although no provision is necessary in this year's budget, there will be considerable financial responsibility in future years. 
Relief to rural producers for drought relief  in the mainland States has been approved by the Commonwealth Government by way of special loans to farmers for sustenance and operation advances. The States will share as follows: - New South Wales, £750,000; Victoria, £600,000; Queensland, £250,000.; South Australia, £600,000; and Western Australia, £570,000; a total of £2,770,000. Repayments by the States will he by four annual instalments commencing after three years. The Commonwealth will meet the full interest for the first year and half the interest for the next six. years. I turn now to the task of financing the enormous increase of ourwar obligations, which are estimated at £143,000,000 in Australia and £43,000,000 overseas, making a total of £186,000,000. The Government has decided to increase from1s. to1s. 6d. a day) the allowance for dependent children of members of the military and air forces on "special force " rates of pay, and of naval ratings. This -involves £1,000,000 per annum, and £600,000 is provided for the balance of this financial year. 
Towards our war expenditure overseas up to December, 1940, the Government of the United Kingdom has agreed to make available loans up to £15,000,000. The improvement in respect of our London funds and the control of imports should enable us to make substantial contributions from our own resources before next June. 
Towards meeting our estimated war expenditure of £143,000,000 in Australia, the Government strongly adheres to its announced policy of a balanced programme of taxation, borrowing from the public; and borrowing from the banking system. 
Credit expansion must be used to the. full limits of safety, but there are already a number of factors tending to expand credit at the present time. It would be unwise, therefore, for the Government to rely on expansion of credit in its plans for war finance. To do so would result in a serious increase of prices which would bear heavily on the wage and salary earner, whose earnings- would lag behind the rising cost of living. 
An optimistic view of loan prospects gives an estimate of total public borrowing of £80,000,000, of which the sums of £2,000,000 and £15,000,000 arc required for Commonwealth and State public works respectively, £8,000,000 for semigovernmental and local government bodies, and £5,000,000 for drought relief and strategic transport works, leaving a balance of £50,000,000 for war purposes. 
The proposals for war finance in Australia may, therefore, be summarized as follows :  - 

<graphic href="165332194011213_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Government proposes to obtain the additional £31,000,000 over the remainder of this year from - 

<graphic href="165332194011213_19_1.jpg"></graphic>

The new scale of income tax on individuals is expected to yield £33,000,000 in a full year, distributed as follows :  - 

<graphic href="165332194011213_19_2.jpg"></graphic>

For the remaining months of this financial year, the yield is estimated at £26,000,000, or £16,000,000 morethan the yield from the scale of taxation imposed last May. The statutory exemption is reduced from £250 to £150, but the deductions for a wife and dependent children are retained. Arrangements are being made for the contributions of salary and wage earnersto be deducted at the source. 
As a war-time measure it is proposed to abolish the rebate previously allowed on dividends on which company tax has already been paid. This will add £1,700,000 to the collections -of individual income tax.' 
A special war-time levy will be made on the profits ofcompanies, generally on the lines of the measure introducedlast session. This proposal is estimated to produce £4,250,000 this year and £5,300,000 over a full year. 
The tax of1s. in the £1 imposed last May on undistributed company profits is to be increasedto 2s. in the £1 and the exemption of 25 per. cent, withdrawn in the case of public companies. The proposals are estimated to yield £2,000,000 this year, an increase of £1,550,000. 
Extensions of sales tax are estimated to produce in this year £20,400,000, or an additional £3,400,000 compared with the yield from present rates. The additional amount will be obtained in the following manner :  - 

<graphic href="165332194011213_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

The estimate for a full year on the amended basis is £23,800,000, as compared with £17,000,000 on present rates. 
On luxury items, appropriate resolutions will- be tabled imposing additional duties of customs . and excise; estimated to yield £4,200,000 for the remainder of the year. 
All these new proposals are estimated to produce additional revenue this year amounting- to£31,100,000, which, with increases approved last May of £14,000,000, will make a total war taxation for 1940-41 of £45,100,000. Of this total, direct taxation accounts for £28,450,000 and indirect taxation for £16,650,000. After allowance, is made for substantial decreases in respect of other items, the total taxation yield is- estimated  at  £126,325,000, an increase of £36,314,000- over the 1939-40 total of £90,011,000. The budget may now be summarized as follows: - 

<graphic href="165332194011213_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

In conclusion, the Government is confident that the Australianpeople will respond willingly to the demands made on them by way of increased taxation, and give unstinted support to the large loans which will be issued to meet the costs of war. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I direct the attention of the Minister concerned to recent happenings on the wharves at Brisbane. Numbers of men have interviewed me and stated that, following the adoption of gestapo methods, they have been dismissed from the wharves at Brisbane: They- and others have been dismissed on information supplied to the authorities by spies. I recognize that in war time essential industries on our wharves and elsewhere must be safeguarded against the subversive activities of disloyal persons, but I am convinced that numbers of innocent men have been deprived, of their livelihood. Unfortunately, these victims of the existing system have no redress, and although in many instances the action taken may be justified, in other cases jealousy and other unworthy motives are the underlying causes of information being laid against them. Honorable senators will understand that a man who is thrown out of his employment in this way cannot possibly obtain further work on the wharves, and, in consequence, he may be unemployed for several months. Innocent men should not be called upon to suffer in this way; methods should be devised to safeguard them. Under existing conditions the dismissed man does-not know who has laid the information against him, and I understand that he has no right of appeal. 
I am glad to know that a right of appeal exists. Men whom I know personally and believe to be loyal citizens  are among those who have been dismissed, and I have been impelled to take up their cases. Others, who are not known to me personally, have approached me to intervene on their behalf, but in such instances I have not felt that I could support their applications for reinstatement in their previous employment.- One such person saw me. recently, and although I believe that the story which he told me was true I could hot be certain that the facts were as he stated because I did not know him personally. I know however that he had been out of work, for over two months. If he was guilty of the charge that was laid against him he deserved dismissal, but if he was innocent, justice should be done to him. Some of the dismissed men have been reinstated in their employment on the wharves following, representations by men, like myself, who have known them for a number of years and have testified to their loyalty. I believe that thereshould be some means under our law whereby men against whom informationsare laid should have an opportunity to meet their accusers face- to face. I hope that the Minister will be able to tell me that means have been devised to obtain justice for these men. 
The treatment of men employed on the. wharves throughout Australia has been under consideration by the Government recently. In the early days of the war it was consideredadvisable that any person who was likely to engage in subversive activities should be prevented from working on the waterfront, or be in any way associated with work which would allow him to engage 'in acts of sabotage. Honorable senators will agree that in the interests of public safety such action was necessary. The Government therefore decided to institute a system of permits in connexion with employment on the water front, or in, connexion with shipping in any way. The rule was that, in the event of a charge being made by a reputable person against any man working on the wharves, the  Deputy  Director of Navigation in. the State should be advised, in which case the man's permit to work would be withdrawn. In order however that no injustice should be done, dismissed men have been given the right to appeal to the Minister for the Interior. As Minister,. I have dealt with a number of these appeals; some have been upheld; somehave been, dismissed on the evidence submitted; others are -still outstanding. In a few cases I.have sought further evidence before coming to a decision. In addition, I have been interviewed on a number of occasions by the federal secretary of the Waterside Workers Union and members of the executive of that union, who have expressed dissatisfaction with the present methods of handling wharf permits. I frankly admit that they made out a good case. Accordingly, I have submitted their, representations to cabinet with a view to a more satisfactory method of dealing with these permits, being evolved. The Government recognizes that" the withdrawal of a man's permit to work on the wharf may deprive him not only of his usual employment but also of any other means of obtaining a livelihood. Ithas no desire to treat unjustly any innocent person who is legitimately employed on the water front.At this stage, I can only say that the matter is under consideration by the Government, and that a new 'scheme has been drawn up' which I believe will be satisfactory to the men engaged onthe water front. Honorable senators will agree that action must be taken to Safeguard the nation against the subversive activities of disloyal persons. 
  SenatorBrown.- I am not defending them. 
--The honorable senatoraskedthat men whose permits had been withdrawn should be brought face to face with their accusers, but I point out that, in respect of some foreigners, that would perhapsendanger the life of the informer. The Government obtains information from as many sources as possible. In the interests of loyal informers the sources of information must be kept secret. Every care is taken to ensure that the person laying the charge is reputable and that the charges laid are substantiated before a permit is withdrawn. 
SenatorFOLL. - Under the new arrangement, an individual who is deprived of his permit will be told why it has been taken from him and given an opportunity toanswer the charge. It may not be wise to confront him with the person laying thecharge, but apart from that, he will have every opportunity to prove his innocence. 
The matter is now under consideration but until the new regulations are ready, I prefer not to give any further details. Honorable senators may, however, rest assured that I believe that the new arrangements will be acceptable to the men engaged on the waterfront. The Government is concerned only with safeguarding the interests of the nation and is taking steps to see that no injustice is done. 
Question resolvedin the affirmative. 
In view of the increased passenger traffic on the transcontinental railway, and the long list which I saw in Perth recently, of passengers who are waiting for berths, will the Minister for the Interior make inquiries regarding the present position, and the possibility of increasing the number of trains on that portion of the transcontinental route which is controlled by the Commonwealth Railways Department ? 
I have already discussed that matter with the Railways Commissioner, partly as the result of questions previously asked by the honorable senator. One of the difficulties is the lack of the rolling stock required for the purpose of providing extra- trains, but a certain quantity of additional rolling stock is now under construction, and the Commissioner is doing his utmost to cater for the increased traffic. 
I lay on the table- 
Fifteenth Annual Report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, 1938-40. together with a statement by the Minister regarding the operation of the act. 
In order to conserve stocks of paper, I suggest, with the concurrence of the Senate, that- this report be not printed as a parliamentary paper thisyear. 
WALSH ISLAND DOCKYARD. 
SenatorCOLLING S asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
In view of the admitted urgent need for more ships in order to increase the effectiveness of Australia's war effort, will the Minister explain why the Government does not immediately re-open the Walsh Island dockyard at Newcastle? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answer :  - 
Walsh Island dockyard isthe property of the New South Wales Government. Consultations have taken place regarding the possibility of re-opening the. yard, and are still proceeding. 
AUSTRALIAN ARMY PAY CORPS. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for theArmy,  upon notice - 
What is the reason for the recent discharge from the Australian Army Pay Corps of a number of returned soldiers who were enrolled and passed medically fit in that unit some months ago? 
Will the Minister call for reports from the officer commanding pay corps at Craig's Buildings, Melbourne, as to the efficiency of these men? 
Have their places been filled by younger men eligible for active service? 
If these men were discharged as not being 100 per cent, medicallyfit, does the Minister consider that the duties of pay corps personnel call for a 100 per cent, medical standard? 
Are otherdischarges pending in other home service units and establishments because of a drastic medical overhaul; if so, will the Minister give instructions to suspend action until the whole policy is reviewed? 
Is it a fact that scores of citizens, notwithstanding their age, are capable of performing many of the duties of home defence which cannot be classed as active service units? 
Three members of Australian Army Pay Corps have beendischarged. Consequent upon falling sick they were re-examined by medical boards and marked unfit for service. 
Their services were satisfactory. 3.Eligible men have not been enlisted in their places. 
Very few 100 per cent, fit men are employed in the Australian Army Pay Corps. 5.No. When men show signs of being physically incapable of performing their duties they are medically boarded and, if found unfit for the duties of their appointments, they' are discharged. 
No doubt there are plenty of citizens capable of performing many of the duties of home defence, but such duties as arc capable of being carried out by older men are already filled by men over the age for front-line service. Some home service units require young active men, but employment for older men is provided in the garrison battalions and in other avenues of army activities (records, &amp;c.). 
MELBOURNE ELECTRIC SUPPLY SERVICES. 
Production of Munitions. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Have inquiries been made as to whether the City of Melbourne Electric Supply Services can manufacture many of the essential parts required in the production of munitions? 
Jf not, will he cause inquiries to be made so that this establishment employing scores of skilled tradesmen may contribute to Australia's war effort? 
The other plant employed by the Electric Supply authorities is not adapted for mass production of munitions. It is considered to be essential that it should remain intact for repairs in the event of break -down of the electric supply which is employed in the production of munitions throughout Melbourne. 
ARMY CONTRACTS. 
Short-weight Bread. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that some months ago a Sydney baking firm named Abbco Ltd. was fined in the vicinity of £1,400 for short-weight bread delivered under an Army contract? 
If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether that fine has been paid; if not, why not? 
Does this firm still hold the Army contract? 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Have any decisions by or suggestions from the United Kingdom Government upon the mutter of a concerted Empire effort to limit the production of goods not directly useful in the war effort been made to the Commonwealth Government? 
What is the nature of such decisions and/or suggestions, if any? 
Will the Minuter see that in any negotiations which take place, care is taken to protect Australia's interests as to (a) Australian work people involved, and (6) the just allocation of raw materials essential to Australian industries Y 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : -  1, 2 and 3. Vo proposals of this kind have been made by the United Kingdom Government. In many instances the effect of the war lias led to the creation of new industries and the expansion of established industries in Arutralia for the production of commodities which had previously been imported. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What is the cost per bed of the multistorey military hospital to be erected on the University site in Western Australia according to a plan submitted by a Perth architect? 
What is the cost per bed of the pavilion hospital to be erected on that site? 3'. Are the services of the local architect being retained for the work; if not, who is the architect for the proposed pavilion hospital? 
The answers to the honorable- senator's questions are as follows: - 
The estimated cost is £227,387, including £10.000 for the furniture, but excluding architect's feus. On the basis of the 100 beds which were to have been provided within the multistorey hospital, this would amount to approximately £2.273 per bed, but it must bc borne in mind that this allows for service departments to (service an additional 100 beds when required. 
An amount of £14~&gt;,000 lias been made available for the proposed pavilion hospital in brick, which is to provide for 200 beds with service accommodation for an additional 100 beds. The rate per bed, based on 200 beds, would therefore be £72r&gt;. 
The services of the local architect will not be retained for carrying out thu proposed pavilion hospital. As the departmental staff has already designed pavilion hospitals elsewhere, the plans of these can be readily modified and adapted to the proposal for Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the Government- recently by regulation under the National Security Act prohibited the use of aluminium except for defence purposes? 
If so, bao the Government considered the far reaching damaging repercussions upon many phases of Australian manufacturing industry? 
Will the Government institute enquiry as to the possibility of discovering suitable substitutes? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers : - 
Aluminium is in short world supply. Its importation is controlled under the Customs (Import Licensing) Regulations and licences will only bo issued when it is required for defence purposes or for essential industries. Consignments from the principal supplying countries are only being made available to Australia on the understanding that aluminium will be used for defence and essential purposes as it is understood that such supplying countries arc not -permitting the material to be used for non-essential purposes. 
The Government appreciates that many industries engaged in the production of goods of a non-essential character will require the uac of substitute materials. At the inception of import- licensing in December last, principal users of aluminium were advised of the probability of this development and warned to consider the use of substitutes. 
Any information as to substitutes in the possession of the Government will be made available to industrialists. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Was any contract entered into between the Commonwealth Government and the Bristol Beaufort Company calling for the supply of certain plans, blue prints or equipment on the one band and the payment- of certain sums of money on the other? 
If so, did the Bristol Beaufort Company carry out their part of the contract? 
If not, lias any refund been made to the Commonwealth Government by the Bristol Beaufort Company? 
Has any approach been made by the Commonwealth Government to the Bristol Beaufort Company for repayment of any moneys? 
-The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
No; but a contract was arranged by the Air Ministry with the Bristol Aeroplane Company conjointly on behalf of the Governments of the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth for the supply of drawings, jigs, tools, jig references and interchangeability gauges, finished parts, raw materials., sample airframes, samplecomponents and special purpose machineryrequired in connexion with the scheme recommended by the United Kingdom Air Mission,1 939, for the manufacture in Australia of Bristol Beaufort aircraft. 
The company has not completed thecontractin its entirety due to 'conditions which have been brought about bythe war. 3 and 4. The company will receive payment' only in respect of those items which it has supplied or is supplying under the contract. The question of re-imbursement does not arise as the Commonwealth will only pay for what it receives. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What is the total sum of money granted by the Federal Government to the States to provide relief to persons affected by drought? 
What sums of money have been allotted  to  the respective States, and under what conditions? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
and 2. The Commonwealth Government, after consultation with State Premiers, agreed to approach the Loan Council for funds to enable drought relief to be afforded to wheatgrowers and others. The total funds to be provided are - 

<graphic href="165332194011272_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The funds will be provided specifically for drought relief. The Commonwealth Government will require the States to repay the principal over a period of seven years. There will be no repayments for the first three years, then there will be four equal annual payments commencing at the end of the fourth year. The Commonwealth will meet the full interest for the first year, and half the interest for the next six years. The States will make the funds available to drought-stricken farmers according to a basis of sustenance and operation advances agreed upon by the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that fuel stoves and carpenters' benches were imported from the mainland to Tasmania for the quarters of the Western Junction Aerodrome; if so. why? 
Yes. The fuel stoves are of a class which are standard fittings supplied to similar establishments throughout Australia. As these were not available in Tasmania, they were forwarded from stocks held by manufacturers in Melbourne for all Royal Australian Air Force establishments. Carpenters' benches were supplied by the Royal Australian Air Force from existing contracts or stocks. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
When will the sixth volume of the  Official History of the Australian Imperial Force  be published? 
It is anticipated that Volume VI. of the  Official History of the Australian Imperial, Force  will be published in June, 1941. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
When will the Industrial Inspector be in a position to make an inspection of the garages and metal-trade workshops of Tasmania ? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer :  - it is expected that an arbitration inspector will visit Tasmania early in the new year. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What was the nature of the works recently let by tender at the Flinders Island aerodrome, and what was the contract price'? 
A contract for certain building work at Whitemark, Flinders Island, was let in September at an amount of £1,108 2s. The nature of the work cannot be made public. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Government give an assurance that adequate measures are being taken to maintain a continuity of sea-borne traffic betweenTasmania and the mainland of Australia? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  - 
The honorable senator is doubtless referring to the recent interference with shipping in Bass Strait owing to the presence of enemy mines. The temporary interruption of shipping services to Tasmania was then unavoidable, but the services were soon resumed. The Government will continue to devote every effort to the maintenance under all circumstances of essential shipping services between the mainland and Tasmania. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What reasons are advanced by the Price Fixing Commission for tea being retailed to the consumers of Canberra at the price of 2s. l0d. per lb. when in other States the price is 2s. 3d. and 2s. 4d.? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has furnished the following reply to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The reasons advanced by the Prices Commissioner are that the comparisons made by the honorable senator do not relate to the same class of tea. A well-known brand of tea obtainable in Canberra for 2s.9d. per lb.is sold in Sydney at prices ranging from 2s.6½d. to 2s. 8½d. per lb., and in Melbourne from 2s.  7½d.  to 2s. ,9d. per lb. Another brand retailed at 2s.1ld. per lb. in Canberra is sold in Sydney at prices from 2s. 8½d. to 2s. 1 0½d. per lb. The increase in the price of tea in Canberra since the war has been no more than the increases in other capital cities. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Are the officials of the Commonwealth Bank noting under the instructions of the Bank Board in diverting business of the Commonwealth Bank to the associated banks? 
Is it a fact that when applications are madefor the transfer of money by draft to New Zetland and otherplaces, applicants are requested to go to the private banks with their business? 
The following answers have been supplied by the Commonwealth Bank: - 
Officers of the Commonwealth Bank do not divert the business of the bank to other banks. The policy of the Commonwealth Bank with regard to competition with the trading hanks was stated in evidence before the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems in Australia in 1936, as follows :  - " As a general rule, current account business and new advance business (where another bank customer is not already indebted to such bank) is accepted. Other bank advances arc not generally disturbed unless facilities that might reasonably be expected by the public are not being provided. The business of municipalities and other semi-public bodies is accepted readily." 
This policy still applies. 
Under the National Security (Monetary Control) regulations, the transferring of money by draft or otherwise out of the Commonwealth is subject to approval by the Commonwealth Bank in its administration of those regulations. Applications have therefore to be made to the Commonwealth Bank and in orderthat as full a measure of control as possible may be secured, applicants are required to submit their applications through their own bankers, -who. if they are satisfied as to all the circumstances, forward theapplications to the Commonwealth Bank with their recommendation. Thisprocedure results in each hank handling the business of its own particular customers. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated cost of land for factories, &amp;c, purchased adjacent to Salisbury in South Australia ? 
What is the reason for the selection of this first-class agricultural land? 
Is it a fact that much inferior and cheaper land was available at approximately the same distance from the city? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are  as  follows :  - 
The approximate cost of the land including residences and improvements taken over is £21 per acre. 
The property was selected because of technical considerations associated with establishment of a large explosives factory, namely - 
Ready access by road and railway to a large centre of population for labour supply ; 
Ready access to  fire,  police hospital, electric supply and water services; 
Topographical featureswhereby drainagecan bo conveyed to the sea and yet the factory be out of range of bombardment. 
The assistance of local authorities was sought in the search for a site and they were not able to suggest any land that would better serve the purpose. 
asked the Minister for ' the Interior,  upon notice- 
How does the Government hold the Mount Breckan estate at Victor Harbour, by lease or purchase? 
What is the amount of rental or purchase paid? 
What is the area held? 
What special qualifications had this property to secure its selection? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The property has been occupied under the authority conferred by regulation 54. of the National Security (General) Regulations. 
The hiring rate and compensation have not yet been determined. 
Thirty-eight and a quarter acres. 
Its location, the fact that it could immediately accommodate 140 personnel, the existence of certain essential engineering services, and the fact that expansion necessary to meet the full requirements of an Initial Training School can be effected economically. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Have any negotiations taken place between the Australian Magnesium Company and the Department of Supply and Development for the manufacture of magnesium in Tasmania? If so, what arc the results? 
How many tons of magnesium are required annually for Australian needs at present? 
Where is the Government obtaining magnesium for Australian needs at the present time? 
How much per lb. is is costing 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Inquiries have been exchanged but without results. In May last the Minister inquired as to specification and deliveriesa proposed Tasmanian production but no information was received. Subsequently the matter was discussed between Tasmanian Parliamentary representatives and the Prime Minister. 
The information is confidential but . I understand that the Tasmanian interests are in possession of all the known and relevant facts. 3 and 4. From. Empire sources on special terms which cannot be disclosed. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Has an optical munitions panel been appointed? 
If so, who appointed it? 
Who are the members of the panel? 
What are their qualifications and status in the profession? 
What are. the duties of the panel? 
How is the panel to be financed? 
The following answers to the honorable senator's questions have been supplied to me :  - 
Yes. 
The panel was formed by invitations issued with the approval of the DirectorGeneral of Munitions. 

 Chairman - Professor Laby,  President  Institute Physics and Professor Physics, Melbourne University: Professor Kerr Grant, Vice-president Institute Physics and Professor Physics, Adelaide University: Professor Vonwiller. Professor Physics, Sydney University: Doctor Woolley, Director. Commonwealth Solar Observatory; Associate Professor E.O. Hercus, Department Physics, Melbourne University;  Mr. Hartnett,  Director Ordnance Production ;  Mr. Daley,  Controller Ordnance Production; Lieutenant-Colonel Adams, Assistant Director of Artillery, Department of Army; Mr.Esserman, Officer in Charge, Metrology. Section, National Standards Laboratory, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research;  Mr. Sayce,  Assistant Superintendent, Munitions Supply Laboratories: Secretary -  Mr. Rodgers,  Physics Staff, Melbourne University. 
The qualifications of members arc indicated in the answer to question 3. 
To investigate when difficulties arise, the use, performance, ways and means of providing an effective supply of optical munitions, including suggestions for designs and specifications, together with experimental work leading up to the production of prototypes. 
Grants for experimental work andother incidental expenditure are financed by the department under the munitions development programme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Is it a. fact that the leather attached to the gaiters worn by members of the Australian Navy was imported from England? 2: Ifthis is so, would the Minister state the circumstances surrounding such a position and the reason for the NavalBoard's decision in this matter ? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answer :  - 1 and 2. Some gaiters with leather attach ments wore imported many years ago, and are now obsolete. The present pattern is of webbing material and contains noleather. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in the different States there arefirms operating which profess to be able to teach young men engineering in an incredibly short time? 
Is it a fact that in Adelaide an advertise ment is appearing in the press offering to turn out efficient tradesmen in 00 hours for a fee of £5? 
Is the College of Civil Aviation with branches in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, operating under the auspices of the Commonwealth Government? 
Is it a fact that in legislation recently passed by the Sow South Wales Government this matter has been dealt with? 
Will the Minister have inquiries made into this matter with a view to appropriate action ? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1 and 2. Inquiries arc being made into these matters. It is known that there are several commercial schools offering training to persons desirous of obtaining ground engineers' licences issued by the Department of Civil Aviation, but so far it has not come under my notice thatfirms are operating on the lines indicated. 
Several commercial schools for ground engineers have been investigated by the Department of Civil Aviation" but the only one considered worthy of full recognition is the Sydney branch of the College of Civil Aviation. 
I have no knowledge of such legislation but have instituted inquiries into this aspect. 
Yes. 
I merely take this opportunity to congratulate the mover and seconder of the AddressinReply on their excellent speeches. All  of  us, I am sure, are very pleased with the showing made by  Senator Spicer  in delivering his maiden speech in this chamber. At this stage I do not propose to deal with matters contained in the Governor-General's Speech, because we shall have an opportunity to discuss them fully on the motion for the printing  of  the Estimates and budget papers, which is the next item appearing on the business sheet. 
.- I take this opportunity to discuss one or two matters arising out  of  the GovernorGeneral's Speech which I, unlike the Leader  of  the Senate  (Senator McLeay),  do not think will arise in connexion with the next item on the business paper. I compliment  Senator  Spicer on his maiden speech. He has made  an  excellent impression in this chamber, and, whilst we on this side differ from him politically, most of us, I am sure, readily recognize his merit. 
In my view the Government is still failing to give to the people of Australia the information to which they are entitled concerning the unfavorable aspects of the war. The Government, of course, cannot be expected todivulge information which may be helpful to the enemy. On the other hand, however, it still refuses to make known important, and in some cases alarming, facts which arc being published in newspapers overseas, and republished in the Australian press. For example, I quote the following paragraph from the Sydney  Build-in,  of the 20th November, dealing with the serious losses sustained by France when that country collapsed before the German invaders. This was the first intimation which I, at any rate, received of those losses. The paragraph reads - 
In France the Nazis made the biggest haul in history. Here is some of thebooty: Steel scrap enough to cover normal Germanimports three and a half years.: 42,000 tons of raw copper; 27,000 tons of zine; 19.000 tons  at  lead: 3,600 tons of tin; 1,700 tons of nickel: 700 tons of quicksilver: stocks of munitions including 230.000 tons of guns, meetly not yet milled;9,000 tons of barbed wire and 800 tons of other wire; 4.500 tons of nails; 53.000 motor cars and 20.000 trucks not counting the enormous number half-destroyed and abandoned all over France; untouched quantities of food, soap, shoes, clothing, paper, razor blades, even toothpaste. A good example of Naziplunderinir took place at Lyons, where leather, silk and canned fish were requisitioned in such quantities that 140 trains were needed to haul them to Germany. Incidentally, the trains were not returned either. -New  York "PM." 
The Governor-General's Speech emphasized the gravity of our position. The need for such emphasis is apparent, when we realize that, despite the information released by the Department of Information concerning our war effort, very few people in this country have any idea of the amount of work which that effort entails in order to place Australia upon an effective war footing, and enable us to do our utmost in helping the Old Country in this struggle. During the recess honorable senators were given an opportunity to inspect munition works. The arrangements made for that inspection by the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr. Broinowski,  were most thorough, and gave  satisfaction to every honorable senator. In a three (lays tour we saw for ourselves the complete manufacturing of aeroplanes and munitions, and we also inspected a radio factory. In. those works, which are situated in one city alone, approximately 35,000 men are engaged. We were thus enabled to gain some idea of the col- losal job with which this country is confronted. Every honorable senator who made that inspection gained satisfaction from the knowledge that all of those tradesmen are proving themselves equal, if not superior, to any elsewhere in the world. For instance, we discovered that the number of man-hours required for the riveting of an aeroplane in the factory we visited was exactly half of the number of man-hours, viz: 400, which workmen in English factories take to do similar work. The inspection enabled me to realize more fully what a wonderful country we occupy. We are producing all of the raw material we require, and out working men and women are proving highly efficient. So long as that position be maintained, we can confidently leave the future and safety of this countryin the hands of the trade unionists of Australia. That observation brings me to a. particular comment contained in the Governor-General's Speech; for the reasons I have just given I am surprised that,such comment was made. In the course of the inspection of munitions factories I took the opportunity to investigate the hours worked by menengaged in the heaviest sections, viz., the ordnance works. I found that the men worked twelve hours a day and have been doing so for a long time. Such a system cannot last. It will certainly lead to serious trouble in those works. Added to that, the Government, in its natural desire to ensure that there shall be no slowing down of production, has asked the men to forgo their annual leave. That is industrial madness, and should not be attempted by any Government. The question may be asked : " Are you going to allow a stoppage or slowing down of the production of arms and munitions?" I say, no! Everypublic utility experiences periods of abnormal strain. At times of bountiful harvests railway engine-drivers and guards used to be called upon to work sixteen or eighteen hours a day. The men pleaded that they could not go on any longer and the Railways Commissioners replied : " We cannot release you. We must shift the wheat. The remedy in that case was to put the men on rosters and work them in shifts. The Governmentcould do that now. The Government could put off 100 or 200 men for a week or eight days, and then put off another hundred orso. It may be contended that that would mean loss of time, but it would not. There are large numbers of men registered in Melbourne, Sydney, and other industrial centres of Australia, who could be switched into these industries in order to relieve the men who are now working unduly long hours. 
SenatorMc Bride. - I do not think that that is correct. 
I am not suggesting that all the men are skilled, but unskilled or semi-skilled workers could be put into the workshops to work alongside skilled men and do much of the work that is now being performed. If some action be not taken very soon, trouble will arise, because the men cannot go on much longer working the hours they do. 
Yes. I remind honorable senators who participated in the inspection of Melbournemunition factories that we saw men at workbelting ingots of iron into shells, and the boat of that job was terrific. 
I was going to add that. If the hours were longer than that, the men would not live. In another place we saw men: working over furnaces, lifting our crucibles of molten metal. I understand that the heat in the furnaces was about 3,000 degrees. Without wishing, to stress unduly one small aspect of a huge organization., I consider that the officer-in-charge of that particular job should be told, that the men should not be asked, to work under such, conditions in ordinary clothes. Asbestos suits should be provided, as, I believe, is done in other countries. I think I can claim to have had experience of as many workshops as any other honorable senator, and after that inspection I felt proud and amazed to know that such a colossal job could be done in" Australia. With tactful and just handling of the men, the wonderful progress which has been achieved to date will continue. In order that it may continue, my advice to the Government is : " See that the men get relief from these long hours; they should have some leave, even if it should mean a. slight slowing down of production. Unless that be done, there will be a slowing down of the whole industrial war machine." I say that after consultation with some of the men in industry who really count. 
Exactly. On that subject there is an interesting article in the  Australian Mining Standard  of the  16th  November last - 
It is not to  he  wondered nt that extremely long hours of employment millie necessary in the munitions and other war-time industries at the outbreak of hostilities had a deleterious effect on the efficiency of operatives. Thu London  fspectaor  points out that it had already been established by thu investigations of the Industrial Research Board in Britain that an undue prolongation of hours of work is not economic, and Ministers have realized that the pressure must be relaxed. A report on welfare and health in relation to hours of work and output in war-time prepared by the British Association of Labour Legislation status some of the problems which require constant review. It -has now been proved that excessive hours, so far from increasing output, actually diminish it. One case investigated shows that when the hours of work fixed by the management were reduced from (ill. 7 to fifl.5 hours a  WeeK  and the actual hours worked were reduced from 58.2 to 51.2 the hourly output increased by 30 per cent, and the total output by 22 per cent. But each kind of work ought to Vie judged separately to ascertain the optimum length of thu working spell. The association recom mends that thu Research Board should pursue its inquiries continuously throughout the war, that more factory inspectors should bc appointed, that young persons under sixteen should in no cases work more, than 44 hours a week, and that further provision should be made for welfare,  it  is a fortunate fact that the conditions which make for the fullest efficiency of the war machine are also those making for decent conditions of life for the workers. In Australia the Government has a committee watching this aspect of war work and it should bc able to so adjust hours of work as to prevent people getting into that tired, over-wrought frame of mind that will not only lower efficiency hut be of assistance to the militants who are ready to avail themselves of it to foment strikes and general unrest. 
I do not think there will be any disagreement on that matter between honorable senators. "Without reading the whole of it, I refer the Senate to an article which appeared in to-day's  Sydney Morning .Herald,  written by an industrial correspondent, under the heading " Strikes in Time of War ". I commend the article to honorable senators as being well  worth reading  The author obviously knows quite a lot about his subject. Discussing the reasons for strikes the writer says - 
And, if the full truth is to be told, industrial trouble has been aggravated by the attitude of the prejudiced, unbending attitude type of conservative employer who, financially weil situated, is willing to have his workshop thrown idle rather than concede a point or a penny. In Conversation, an executive chief of a large business recently rendered idle by a strike told the writer that a skilled tradesman was no more a. key man than an office boy, and that, so far as he was concerned, it was a fight to a finish before be would depart from his interpretation of the award. And this while on his table lay important war contracts that meant bigger business for his firm. 
The Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  had a very awkward job recently when he was called upon to settle a strike which occurred among men working at Deer Park and Maribyrnong. The reason for the strike was that the men wanted the payment of a fare of ls. 4d., or 2s. 4d. for the longer distance. Surely the Assistant Minister will agree that the employers were not justified in refusing the small concessions asked for, and so - holding up vital defence work in a time of great urgency. To my mind that was one of the worst instances of a job being held up needlessly. 
It was not sufficient reason for the employers, who obviously were not engaged in the contract for the good of their health, allowing the work to be held up, especially as this Government would no doubt have made a compensating adjustment later. The men should have been kept, at work. That is typical of the annoyances which should be, and, I believe, are being reasonably handled bv the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
The Governor-General said that amending industrial legislation was being prepared by the Advisory War Council. That may be so, but I have not yet heard of it. The Government can set up all the committees and conciliation authorities it likes, but while legal men remain in arbitration, there will bo no peace among the workers of this country. I saythat as a result of long experience of industry, and of close friendships with many arbitration judges who, although they may be excellent men in many ways, cannot be expected to understand the ambitions and needs of the working people with whom they have never been in close contact. I arn not referring to the Commonwealth Conciliation and. Arbitration Act, but to the personnel of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. The members of the bench are selected from the legal profession. The judges do not desire lay advocates to appear before them; they prefer lawyers. "When I appeared in that court as an advocate on behalf of railway employees in Victoria, the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  was briefed against me, and associated with him were two junior counsel,one of whom was  Dr. Ellis.  The Victorian Railways Commissioners were prepared to pay hundreds of pounds a day in order to contest the right of railway men to the same basic wage as that of workers in private industry. 
The Bruce-Page Government desired to get rid of three of the four judges of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, retaining only one judge for the maritime industries.Why could npt the other members of the bench be transferred to another jurisdiction?What is the use of men who have had only a legal training attempting to appraise the value of the work, for instance, of a fitter? If a judge had had experience as an employer, experience such as  Senator Leckie  has had. I should be prepared to listen to him. I should also respect his decisions if he had been a distinguished union leader. An employer and a union leader would be capable of arbitrating on a matter involving an assessment of the skill of a worker; but in industrial' affairs, I am not prepared to accept the decisions of men who arc merely highly qualified lawyers, and can " put it over ". When measures designed to lead to a perfecting of the machinery of industrial peace are submitted to the Parliament for ratification, I shall study them with groat interest. 
In 1929, a Conciliation Commissioner was appointed by the Scullin Government, but the judges of the Arbitration Court saw that he got no cases. The members of the bench did not want any of their work to be taken from them, and he ultimately lost his position. I had a hand in seeing that a Conciliation Commissioner was appointed as an experiment, but I arn now convincedthat little better result would be obtained fromthe appointment of another Conciliation Commissioner than from the present bench. I strongly advocate the selection of practical mcn from both sides in industry to adjudicate with regard to conditions of employment and rates of pay, particularly in view of the fact that there is every likelihood of industrial activity in Australia being doubled in the near future. 
 I do not believe in trade unions going to the Arbitration Count.' . I should get rid of the present three judges by transferring them to some other jurisdiction. When a. navvy is called to give evidence, he should not be treated as though he were a criminal. An official says to him, " Take the Bible in your right hand," and, before the case for the union has been stated, the witness "gets the wind up". I have said, hundreds of times that the whole system should be altered. The principal improvement requiredis the removal of legal men from the court. If it was right to attempt to get rid of some of the judges in 1921, it would be right in 1940. 
The issue then raised was the abolition of the system of arbitration, and the people did not support that proposal. 
Strikes could be obviated by sweet reasonableness. Deer Park is miles from 
Melbourne, and builders' labourers employed there recently asked that their fares should be paid from their homes to their, place of employment, in order that they might receive the full benefit of their relatively small pay for the important work performed by them. A greedy employer, engaged in the construction of buildings required for defence purposes, objected to their request, despite the fact that contractors usually make ample provision for profit for themselves. It is outrageous that employees should have to pay their own railway fares to Footscray and, in addition, bus fares from the railway station to their place of employment. Men and women are crowded together almost to the danger point, and I submit that while they are working overtime, free transport should be provided for them from the railway to the works. 
We are doing something in that matter. 
His Excellency the GovernorGeneral stated in his Speech that an Australian Advisory War Council had been set up under the authority of the National Security Act, with membership representative of all parties in Parliament. I believe that the council will do good, work, but I think that it should, at an early date, devise means whereby the members of this chamber and the other branch of the legislature may have an opportunity to consider .the many regulations issued from week to week. Many of them have a. tremendously important bearing upon the interests of the workers engaged in war industries. The Government should find some way by which the committee appointed to deal with regulations and ordinances could carry out its duties more efficiently than in the past, so that lay members of the Senate may be informed of the full effect of the new regulations. Under the National Security Act, the Government has power to make regulations to achieve almost any purpose. I have  counted up  to 184 regulations, and if I were asked to say what eight of them meant, I should be unable to do so. That is a deplorable admission, but it shows that this matter should receive the consideration of the Senate. We require the assistance of a skilled officer to advise us of the implications of these regulations. 
Amine-sweeper was sunk off our coast recently, and there was a delay of 18 or 19 hours in the release of the news. News was published some time ago that an enemy raider was operating in Australian waters. If we mention these things we are ridiculed, but it transpired that a raider had been at work near our shores. Thena statement was made that no aerial reconnaissance of certain parts of our coast had been made for some time, and the announcement certainly made a bad impression on the public mind. We were told also that ample provision had been made to send armaments overseas, but I have not heard any statement by the Government as to what quantity has been retained in. Australia. If I were to ask such a question Ishould probably be refused an answer. 
Before dealing with the Governor-General's Speech itself, I wish to compliment  Senator Spicer  on his maiden speech. The- honorable senator is an acquisition to the debating strength of the Government in this- chamber. There were several things in: his speech with which I did not agree, but I shall not dwell on them at this stage. 
The last paragraph, of the Speech reads - 
In the earnest hope that Divine Providence may guide your deliberations and. further the welfare of the people of the Commonwealth, I now leave you to the discharge of your high and important duties. 
What are the duties referred to by His Excellency? Among them is the responsibility for safeguarding the Commonwealth by ensuring that its citizens, as well as the men who will return from the war, shall find a place in industry. The Speech gives no indication that any steps have been taken in that direction. The only industries to which it refers are those associated with the production of munitions and articles required for the prosecution of the war. What is to become of the workers in these industries when the war is over? Are these industries to be continued when hostilities cease? 
I hope that before long we shall have won the war; but what will then become of the men who, in- the meantime, will be employed in the manufacture of munition's ?' I want to be sure that the wheels of industry will be kept turning after the war. 
At the present time the people of Australia are suffering from fear and apathy. Fear hasbeen described as the jnost powerful product of civilization, in that it leads to unrest. Recently, some of our newspapers informed us that anAustralian vessel had sunk an enemy destroyer and captured a cruiser. Why was not that report made public soon after the occurrence, instead of the people having to wait until letters describing the encounter were received in Sydney? 
If that be the reason, why are such reports allowed to appear in the press? If the report be true - and I hope that it is - it will encourage men to enlist. Whatever the outcome of contact with the enemy may be, recruiting is stimulated; men like to share in victory, whilst losses only make them the more determined to resist the enemy. Public apathy has been described as the lack of interest on the part of the people in all matters of vital importance to the nation. It should be our aim to eliminate both fear and apathy. 
Western Australia has not been fairly treated by the Commonwealth Government during the last twelve months. Fremantle is the first port of call for vessels travelling to Australia from overseas, and, as such, is entitled to proper hospital accommodation, so that sick and injured persons may be given suitable treatment immediately on the arrival of their ships in Australian waters. Yet Western Australia is the last State to be provided with proper military hospitals. 
That provision should have been made long ago. I have no doubt that Victoria and New South Wales have already been provided with adequate hospital accommodation. 
Western Australia has a special claim for consideration in the provision of hospitals to accommodate sick and wounded soldiers who return to Australia from other countries. 
It will probably be inferior to those provided in the other States. However, the prospects for the western State are now- brighter than they were, because with the honorable members for Perth  (Mr. Nairn)  and Forrest  (Mr. Prowse) Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees respectively in the House of Representatives,  Senator Cunningham Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber and  Senator Collett  an Assistant Minister, it is possible that Western Australia will receive more consideration from the Government in the future than has been given to it in the past. I promise the Government that Western Australian senators who sit on this side of the chamber will not cease their agitation until a munitions annexe is provided at the Midland Junction railway workshops. 
I hope that the Minister will use his influence to have this work expedited, and also that the work once it is started will be continued until completion. 
Western Australia has not been treated fairly in the matter. of wool appraisement centres. The claims of Albany and Geraldton to recognition in this connexion should receive the earnest attention of the Government. Under existing conditions, growers of wool who normally send their wool to those ports have to send it to Perth at an extra cost of as much as 8s. 4d. a bale. 
At this stage I shall not urge a policy of shipbuilding in Western Australia because I believe thatthe eastern States are better equipped to undertake this class of work. I am glad to know, however, that shipbuilding is being undertaken in South Australia. 
The time has arrived when Canberra should in fact become the national capital of Australia. In this connexion I draw attention to the following extract from the  CanberraTimes  of the8th November - 
But instead, we see the Department of Supply and Development in Melbourne acting to hold up vital Australian requirements by its failure to work in harmony with departments at Canberra (where the Department of Supply is unrepresented). 
The article in  the  Canberra Times  continues - 
We would see some steps being taken to establish the new Department of National Labour at Canberra instead of. as is actually happening, allowing undermining influences in Melbourne to be exerting their influence against this department functioning from Canberra. 
Canberra is supposed to be the capital of Australia ; if it were so in fact it would not be necessary for so many officers of various departments to travel to and fromthe capital cities of the States on official business. The Government should take steps to make Canberra the national capital of Australia in fact as well as in name. 
I was astonished to read in the Governor-General's Speech the following paragraph - 
The Government feels strongly that, in a country in which there is adequate and accessible machinery for the settlement of disputes and the adjustment of grievances, there can be no justification for direct action. 
I should have thought that the Ministers who were responsible for that statement kuow better than to make it. Nor did I think that they would seize upon the opening of Parliament as an opportunity to challenge the Opposition in this Parliament. The fact cannot be denied that there is neither adequate nor accessible machinery for the settlement of disputes and the adjustment of grievances in this country. Such machinery has never existed in Australia. The statutes which purport to provide machinery for the settlement of industrial disputes are the result of years of agitation. Various governments have had to give way under the pressure of public opinion, but the legislation that has been enacted is certainly ineffective, since it does not facilitate the settlement of grievances. The reason is that under private ownership, particularly the monopolistic ownership of industries, the workers are divided into two categories - indispensable and dispensable. Workers who are indispensable can practically impose their own terms on their employers. There is no need for key men in industry to go down on their hands and knees, metaphorically speaking, and beg a judge of the Arbitration Court to give to them a few more crumbs by the granting of additional concessions.  Employers grant the requests of these workers, although they may do it reluctantly. But the majority of the workers,whose services can be dispensed with almost at a moment's notice without dislocation of the enterprise, and whose places can easily be filled by others, are not in that happy position; they are forced tolive on the lowest possible level of subsistence. . 
The unskilled worker must either accept the terms offered to him,  or  be unemployed. And where there is a demand for highly skilled labour, a regulation under the National Security Act provides that the employer shall not pay to him any amount, in excess of the minimum rate. 
I have not mentioned margins. In the granting of margins a. virtue is made of necessity; employers say to skilled workers '"'you possess skill ; therefore you shall be paid more than the other fellow ". But suppose that the position were reversed, and  the dispensable man became indispensable. A person who previously had been regarded as dispensable would then be found to possess much more skill than was hitherto suspected, and his employer would be prepared to allow him a margin in excess of the basic wage. Before the declaration of war, when many thousands of persons throughout Australia were unemployed, the Commonwealth Government declared that their poverty and misery were not a matter of national concern but were wholly the responsibility of the States. The Government almost grudgingly provided a few crumbs to relieve their sufferings, but resolutely declined to make available an adequate amount, which was required to improve their unfortunate position. A few months ago, however, men who had formerly been dispensable and who had been semi-starved since 1932 became better housed, fed and clothed, because the war made them indispensable. Such is the position which exists under private ownership of industry; the dispensable man has practically no rights. But under another system of ownership or control, work would be found, whether or not a war was in progress, for all the men and women who wrere willing and able to work. 
Yes, employment for them would be permanent. They would not be classed as either dispensable or indispensable. 
All persons who do not enjoy the same consideration as that which is extended to public servants should receive it. That is the point which I desire to stress. The more congenial the conditions under which men work, the less inclined are they to go on strike. Public servants receive higher rates of pay and much more consideration than do casual workers. If the Government were prepared to give to all workers the same rates of pay and conditions as those which are enjoyed by public servants, great progress would be made towards the removal of the causes of industrial disputes and strikes. Unfortunately such a policy has not been implemented by the Government, even though it has appointed three additional conciliation commissioners. The policy to which the Government is committed now is precisely the policy to which it adhered before the outbreak of war. The only difference, perhaps, is in. respect of acceleration of output and ruthlessness. 
The Government wishes to reduce the costs of production to the irreducible minimum. That is fundamental. At all times, it is contended that the costs of production are mounting up, and unsophisticated persons, who form the majority of members of this intelligent community, believe that to be correct. But accurate calculation shows that that is not true. Costs of production estimated in terms of labour time were never lower than they are at present. The relevant statistics, shown in terms of depreciated currency, which incidentally, is depreciated for the purpose of increasing profits and misleading the public, make it appear that such costs were never higher. As I have frequently pointed out in this chamber, the basic wage to-day, expressed in terms of gold, is substantially less than was the basic wage in 1907. To those ,  who do not know that any difference exists, however, the fact that the basic wage is £4. 2s. a week in Victoria, £4 6s. in Perth and £4 19s. on the Goldfields of Western Australia is evidence that it is higher to-day than it was 30 years ago. Speaking generally, what has happened has been that the cost of living has increased threefold. Although purchasing power expressed in terms of depreciated currency would appear to have increased by 100 per cent, the value of the basic wage is, for all practical purposes, substantially reduced. That is why rents, food and clothing are three times as dear as they were in 1907. A person who drinks beer, which is regarded as a national stimulant, knows that whereas he paid 3d. for a 16-oz. glass in 1907, he now pays 6d. for a 10-oz. glass. The same all-round increase applies to almost every commodity that is required for domestic purposes. This position is intimately related to the cause of industrial disputes and strikes. The 
Government may appoint as many conciliation commissioners as it pleases, but unless it is prepared to examine fundamental causes, it will never abolish industrial upheavals. 
For example, employers must not be allowed to become laws unto themselves. At present, an employer has the right to discharge an employee at a moment's notice. 
That is true. But if the employee desires to reverse the process and no longer work for his employer under the existing conditions, and a number of his fellow workers feel that he is justified in acting in that manner and make common cause with him, their behaviour constitutes a strike, which is regretted in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, without due regard for the facts. This matter resolves itself into a question whether the employer shall have all the power, and the employee is to be merely the creature of his will. Such high-handed and arbitrary methods will not work nowadays. With labour power becoming more and more indispensable as the war progresses, men will not submit to such injustices, any more than would Ministers if they were suddenly transferred to work-benches in the factories. I venture to assert that if the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  or the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  were ordered to attend to furnaces for eight hours a day under the terrific conditions which are operating, they would rebel against the instruction, just as do the men. If, however, the Government attempts to make the conditions under which the men work as congenial as possible, consistent with the maintenance of a fair output, a valuable contribution will be made toward improving the situation. The present system under which a man may be discharged without justcause merely because his employer has had a bad night, or comes to work with a bad liver, will not function any more in time of war than in time of peace. Dealing with this subject, the former Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. 
S. B. Stevens) made the following suggestion, which was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 20th November under the heading " The Second War Budget " :- 
The most obvious course is for the Commonwealth to take over, on an Australian basis, the full control of employment .and unemployment. . j 
I commend that suggestion, to the Government for consideration, more particularly as the war brings into existence to a far "greater degree than in peacetime the necessity for governmental control of industry. The Government is compelled to intervene because under the divided control of private ownership, the Commonwealth is unable to secure the same output at a reasonable cost. The driving pressure of economic necessity is forcing the Government more and more to intervene in industry. That happened during the last war, and it is happening again to-day. As the present struggle is taking place on a far greater scale than did the last, it follows that government control of industry will be more widespread than it was during the last war. If the Government's approach to a. solution of the problem is to make conditions of labour as congenial as possible, it will accomplish a great deal in avoiding industrial upheavals. 
In the old craftsmanship days, men worked at a much more leisurely tempo than they do now and their output was much lower than it is to-day. Working conditions . were also more congenial, and the nervous  wear-and-tear  and physical strain to which modern workers are subjected were then absent. In consequence, strikes to the extent that they occur to-day were unknown. The Government must take into consideration the conditions under which men now work, and act accordingly. If that be not done, all the pleading in the world will not improve the position, and no number of speeches by the Governor-General, deploring this or that condition in connexion with industrial matters, will make the slightest difference. The Government must improve the conditions under which Australian mcn and women are required to work. It must give sympathetic consideration to the problem of overtime. To-day, whilst, many men are required to work much more overtime than is reasonable, others are not given the chance to work at all. That is the cause of much discontent among our working people. 
Ministers must realize that,  although  they may talk as much as they like to men, they will never be able to convince them, that the Government is doing the. right thing so long as many are required to work excessive overtime whilst others are not working at all. Under competent management, overtime can be reduced to a minimum, particularly when a large army of unemployed is available from which to supplement labour. I admit the argument that the unemployed cannot be fitted into industry  immediately. That difficulty arose some time ago, but the Government subsidized technical schools in order to train the men concerned for the jobs that had to be done. To some degree, the same difficulty may arise in respect of the unemployed, but it must be overcome if the Government desires to obtain better results and win greater support from the workers of this country during the present, strenuous times. The Government's approach to the problem of overtime must be much more sympathetic in the future than it has been in the past. During this debate, reference has been made to certain judgments of the Arbitration Court. I agree entirely with what  Senator Keane  has said on this matter. In doing so-, I do not wish to speak derogatorily  of members of the legal profession. However, the training of judges and legal advocates differs entirely from that ot men' engaged in industry. The former are taught to observe rigidly and strictly legal precedent. Their training does not enable them to make any allowance for ever-changing economic conditions. The introduction of a new machine, or the adoption of a new method, may change industrial conditions entirely.  Noth withstanding  such facts, however, the legal mind declares that we must abide by the law. For instance, when Judge Lukin was appointed to- the Arbitration Court, he said in most sonorous tones to one union advocate, " You must obey the majesty of the law ". When the union representative replied, " Well, Your 
Honour, this is a different set of circumstances ",  His  Honour replied, "I cannot listen to that argument. There is the law ; it must, be enforced ". That, exemplifies the approach of the legal mind to industrial problems ; it is necessarily inhibitive  and incapable of expansion, so to speak, in order to deal with ever-changing economic conditions. Particularly is this the case in wartime, when- centralization of control and improvement of methods generally tend to develop much more rapidly than in a time of peace. That kind of approach to industrial problems arouses, quite unnecessarily, much of the  antagonism  which is the cause of most of our disputes. By removing that cause, we could avoid disputes. The legal mind is, so to speak, imprisoned, within legal precedent. By contrast, the lay advocate is more prepared to act, upon his own initiative and discretion. To-day. if any judge in the Arbitration Court attempted to act as the late Justice Higgins endeavoured to act, he would be condemned from one end of the country to the other for exceeding the authority of hi.; high office. Much of our industrial trouble arises because of this approach to industrial problems. If the position is to be improved, as  Senator Spicer  has suggested it can be improved, our industrial arbitrators must not be slaves to precedent and indexes, and other tilings which are stationary and ossified, because these limitations prevent judges from adjusting themselves to circumstances as they find them. Our arbitrators must not only be more adjustable in the way I have indicated, they must also be much more sympathetic with the workers than is the average legal man. I recall that during the depression, when all government employees suffered a percentage reduction of salaries, one judge of the Arbitration Court refused to accept any reduction of his own princely salary but at the sam e time, without turning a hair, reduced the wages of the workers, and made an award prescribing more onerous working conditions for the man on the basic wage. The Government's approach to the problem of industrial disputes and strikes must be directed, towards studying the relationship between cause and effect. It must not be the kind of approach exemplified in this document winch comments upon the existence of industrial disputes in the most derogatory terms, but, at the same time, makes no comment on the cause of such disputes. If Australia is to play the part in this war which it can and should play, every available man and woman capable of working should be employed. No excuse whatever exists for any employable person being out of work in a time like the present. We have a super-abundance of the materials we require, and we have the means by which men and women can be more adequately fed, clothed and housed than they are at present. I urge the Government to adopt this approach to our industrial problems. Let it demonstrate more convincingly than it has done in the past that it is sincere in this matter, and let those who act in its name be more sympathetic towards the claims of the workers. If this be done, we shall be enabled to organize a war effort which will be 100 per cent, of our capacity. However, while we have the present "catch as catch can " approach to this problem, the divided control, which the ex-Premier of New South Wales admits, and authorities working at cross-purposes - while anybody who makes a suggestion to improve the position is viewed with suspicion, and while a body of men who are trying to do their best for this country according to their lights are held up as traitors, as happened recently - we shall not obtain the results which I know every honorable senator hopes we shall achieve. 
I must correct the honorable senator. I have never advocated the formation of a national government. On a previous occasion, I pointed out clearly - and, I thought, convincingly - that a national government cannot be true to name, so long as private monopolies are allowed to hold sway over industry. A national government, true to name, can only be established under a system of national ownership of industry, particularly of industries essential to our war effort. Only under such conditions can the political superstructure be truly national. Then, we should have administrators working like a team, in perfect co-ordination and harmony, each administrator striving to excel and help his colleagues. But to-day, many members are in Parliament simply to represent private 'monopolistic interests, whose primary object is by action, both within and without the limits of the law, to reduce the standard of living of our working classes to the lowest possible level. 
It. is not ridiculous. That stand has been taken by several honorable senators on many occasions in this chamber. For instance, when we were considering the importation from Germany of machinery winch could be, and is now being, manufactured in this country, they contended that we should not manufacture the machinery in Australia Because private interests said that the cost, of labour was too high. I remember  Senator James  McLachlan saying that the reason why this Government would not build ships in Australia was because they could be built more cheaply overseas. In its financial policy, this Government is primarily responsible to private monopolistic interests, who are endeavouring to reduce our standard of living to the lowest possible level. Did not Chief Judge Beeby say to the union advocates, " Don't ask for increased wages while the war is on " ? Have not the employers said, " Let us get on with the war before we discuss increases of rates of pay or the improvement of conditions " ? Private monopolistic interests are endeavouring to reduce the standard of living of the workers, in not only direct, but also insidious and ingenious ways, by increasing prices. To-day, in Melbourne, apples cost 2d. each. How can the mother of a family, whose husband is working for sustenance, afford to buy apples at that price? How can she afford to buy bread, meat and clothing at the present high prices of these commodities? Prices are going up in spite of the Government's prices control system. That has been admitted by the Treasurer, and by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland, who, in the course of an address to the Economic Society a few months ago, said in effect: " Until you control finance, you cannot control prices to the degree that is necessary ", and prices have been going up ever since. The standard of subsistence is being reduced both directly in the ordinary way by reducing wages, and indirectly by currency depreciation and an increase of prices. In these circumstances, the Labour party cannot possibly be identified with a government which would claim to be a national government, but would be national in warne only, giving effect to the policy of  the interests which it represented. I repeat that the aim of those interests is the1 lowest possible standard, of subsistence. What would be the effect of such a policy upon members of the Labour party if they were supporting a national government? If a proposal were made to reduce wages, which 'would involve a reduced standard of living, ostensibly in order to improve Australia's war effort, we, knowing that wages should not be reduced and. could even be increased, would cither bc gagged or have to challenge  the Government. The Labour party does not intend to say that it will be loyal to the Government, and five minutes later challenge the Government. But the Government must be challenged on this question; it must be challenged also on the question of industrial disputes and strikes, not in a spirit of antagonism, but in an endeavour to rise to the occasion, and do better in the future than has been done in the past. The Government must be challenged also on the question of being dictated to by the private interests to which it is responsible. In these circumstances a national government would not be workable, and, in my opinion, any man claiming to represent the workers or the La.bour movement in this Parliament who joined a national government would he recreant to his trust, to say the least of it. 
The circumstances in the two countries are entirely different. I speak subject to correction, because&lt; we are at a great disadvantage. We are not allowed to learn exactly what is happening overseas. Certain publications from overseas are not allowed to enter Australia, and we must depend for our information upon other sources, some of which are doubtful. What is the position in Great Britain? It is a position which may arise in. Australia at any time, but, in Britain, it was not allowed to come into existence until the danger became so acute that the orthodox mind, the inhibited legal mind and. the contracted political mind no longer stood as obstacles between what should  be  done and what was being done. When bombs began to fly and something had to be done, Labour men were called in and given practically a free hand. They were not made responsible to the Cabinet, or to the Government.  Mr. Ernest.  Bevin. was told in effect, '"'Here is a department; organize it as it should be organized ". One of the first things he did was to call up the entire personnel of the department. He told them that the job had to be done in a. way very different from that in which, it had been done. He said in effect: "You must increase output; you must get better results; you must do this and you must do that. Can you do these things? " In every case where the answer was " No, sir ", the job was given to some one else who could do it. .There was no appeal  to the Prime Minister as to whether this could .be done or that could be done. The result was that  Mr. Bevin  and others like him organized efficient staffs overnight. Many of -the achievements so evident in Great Britain at present are due to the efforts of practical Labour men who work with their head3 as well as with their hands. It was not a matter of negotiating with this monopoly or that monopoly in order to determine what, rate of profit should apply, or whether this agreement or that agreement should be effected ; the individual took charge in the name of the Government, and anything in the nature of compensation was not to be talked about until after the war. The objective was to get on with the job, and the job has been done much more effectively under the direction of Labour men. 
I account, for the improvement by the existence of better conditions in Australia. The reactions of men to improved conditions are always favorable. 
Yes, I would. Also,Iam prepared to give to the honorable senator all credit that is due to him for his dialectical skill, although I have not much respect for it. in England the conditions improved  as the  result of more efficient and more sympathetic management by Labour men who, in view of war-time exigencies and the necessity for a driving force, were given a free hand. Thesemen are giving to the workers the very best possible conditions in the circumstances. Even while the war is at its height, they are ensuring that the workers get, proper holidays, sufficient time for rest, and the right, food, knowing that the human mechanism has its limitations just as inorganic mechanism has limitations. By means of their extensive knowledge of these matters, their devotion, and their patriotism, they are obtaining results far greater ' than those obtained by men who have condemned them. That can be done here, but I am afraid that it will not be done until the pressure of war becomes even greater than it is to-day. Already some improvements have been effected as the result of war-time pressure, and were it not for that pressure, appeals to some people would be as futile as appeals to a wooden god. But in view of war-time exigencies and the knowledge of what is likely to happen should Great Britain go down in this struggle, the workers will no doubt get something better. Why fhould they wait? War was declared in September, 1939 ; we are now in November, 1940, and there are still thousands of men out of work, and being supported by the wages of those who are in employment - thousands of men who, instead of being contributors to the national revenue, are dependent on the national revenue. Are we to wait until the bombs are falling and there is absolutely no alternative before we make changes for the better? I trust that will not, be so; I hope there will be a better relationship between the workers, their representatives, and representatives of the Government. I am certain that if a sympathetic approach be made by those who represent the Government, there will be a sympathetic response from those who represent the workers. These men know just as well as any honorable senator in this chamber what to expect if Hitler and his hordes be successful, and they will work to the very last in order to make a maximum effort, if only the right approach be made to them. I trust therefore that if thiswar be still in progress when the next opening of Parliament takes place, we shall, instead of listening to reflections upon the workers such as were contained in the Governor-General's Speech, hear something in appreciation of the services of the working people. I am not holding  His Excellency  personally responsible, because I know the circumstances in which his address was prepared, but if what I have suggested comes to pass, we shall all feel proud to be here in Australia; and we shall all be able to say : " We have laid the foundations of a better order for the future than we have had in the past."  Sitting suspended from 5.2 until 8 p.m. 
.- Paragraph 5 of the Governor-General's Speech contains the following statement: - 
The Treasurer will, within a few days, lay before you a budget which will impose upon the Australian people financial burdens heavier than they have ever before been called upon to bear. I am confident that these burdens will be cheerfully accepted and successfully borne. 
I quite disagree with that. Last year's budget imposed a burden of £20,000,000 upon the taxpayers. The sales tax was increased from 5 to81/3 per cent. Official figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician show that a man with a wife and three children pays annually direct and indirect taxes to the amount of £103 4s. 2d. Yet this year the budget provides for an increased expenditure over that of last, year of £35,000,000. On the 30th June, 1914, the taxes per head of the population amounted to £4 14s. 4d., and at the present time they total £20 12s. 10. Of course, when the new taxes are imposed, the burden will be very much heavier than it now is. The income tax exemption figure has been reduced from £250 to £150. 
T have shown conclusively, in the past, that further taxation for the purpose of financing the war effort is unnecessary. 
The futility of relief schemes has been shown by Professor F. W. Hart, of the University of California, who was in Australia in 1937 as a delegate to the New Education Fellowship Conference which met in Hobart, and of which I was a member. I suggested, incidentally, that adults required more education than young people. Although a master of science presided at the conference, and the gathering included the greatest number of university graduates I have ever seen under one roof, none knew anything about political economy. What has brought about this war, and the heavy taxation that it will involve? Professor Hart declared - 
Surplus man power is the fuming, quaking volcano on which the economies and social security of the world is now sitting. 
Surplus man power means low standards of living, poverty and starvation; these in turn lead to social unrest, economic strife, industrial warfare, political upheavals, civil war, revolutions, and may lead to international war. 
I desire to get down to root causes, and I ask why Australia, is in its present financial plight. It must be recognized that the last depression was created by the banks. In the United States of America, the banks called up overdrafts and refused further credit. This movement spread to Europe, and that is how the great depression which began in 1929 originated. In George-street, Sydney, is a labour exchange where officials are at their wits' end to find work for unemployed, whilst at the University of Sydney, men are being trained to discover labour-saving devices. In' the United States of America, two-fifths of the world's gold is stored, but in six years that nation has expended 20,000,000,000 dollars for relief necessitated by the action of the banks in bringing about the depression. Under his new deal,  President  Roosevelt borrowed £1,000,000,000 sterling from the bankers who brought about the depression, and in six years that nation expended, for relief £4,000,000,000, or three and a half  times  Australia's national debt last year. A year ago, when I was addressing the Senate on the problem of taxation, I pointed out that it would be necessary to take away half of the salaries of members of  this  Senate by means of taxation before they would realize the futility of the present financial' system. In the United States of America the recipients of relief early in 1933 numbered 21,000,000, yet the number is now 22,000,000. Those figures are startling. The United Slates of America started expending 1,000,000,000 dollars a year, and is now expending 4,000,000,000 dollars a year. 
The greatest part of the money raised by taxation is, in many instances, used to pay the interest bill on money that has been borrowed. I have endeavoured to show that our war effort could be financed without further taxation, but my words have fallen on deaf cars. Australia owns the Commonwealth Bank, and. all of its profits go to the nation. If, instead of borrowing £25,000,000 next week from the private banks, we asked the Commonwealth Bank Board to advance credit to the amount of £25,000,000 for war purposes, according to the report of the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems, it could not refuse to grant the request. Instead of paying 33/4 per cent, to the private banks, it could be paid to the Commonwealth' Bank, and thus the interest would go back to the nation. 
It would hot matter if the Commonwealth Bank charged 5 per cent., because the interest would be returned to the nation in the form of bank profit. 
That is the only country that has reduced its national debt, and. at the same time reduced taxes and developed its resources. I gave the honorable senator that answer twelve months ago. The sums already expended in the United States of America., together with the billions that have to be expended annually, constitute one of the main factors bringing ever nearer a breakdown in government credit, and the certain result of this will be the impoverishment of the very millions of citizens who now support, by their productive efforts, the 22,000,000' relief recipients. 
Great Britain lias presented a budget for this year of £1.500,000,000, but it is now admitted that, the treasury will not get half of that sum from, the people. Thousands of workers and others have been bombed out. of their homes and factories. They cannot be left to starve or be placed on. the dole. The money required to keep these people at work will have to be found from some other source, without increasing taxes, as was advised by the Macmillan Commission. No attempt has yet been made in Great Britain to take over the banks and the banking system ; but, as it, is impossible to get the money required by means of taxation, the only alternative is to raise it on the credit of the nation. A monthly review known as  Sound Finance  gives the bankers' view as to how the situation should be met.  Mr. Gillespie, chairman  of the Bank of New South Wales, stated last year, after the declaration of war that, no doubt, the standard of living would have to be reduced, but he said nothing about lowering the rates of interest. He remarked that in London the bank could get only 10s. per cent, interest, on treasury-bills, whereas in Australia the rate was 35s. per cent, for the same accommodation. Why should the rate be three and a half times as high in Australia as in London? I invite honorable senators opposite to tell me if there is anything wrong with my suggestion as to how the heavy expenditure which the budget proposals involve could be met. For two years 1 have been trying to find an honorable senator who is willing 'to controvert .what I have said, but apart from  Senator Dein,  who has interjected frequently, no one has accepted the challenge. 
My colleagues on this side supported me on that occasion. It may not be generally known that I have converted a number of supporters of the Government. It is possible for a person to have the true faith without giving any outward indication of it. There are numbers of truly religious people who never go to church. Ministers opposite would probably not derive any benefit from attending church, because they appear to be beyond redemption. The conservative mind which is represented by honorable senators on the Government side of the chamber, will get a rude shock when the new income taxation proposals arc put into force. As a rule, wealthy people, particularly those whose fathers have left them sufficient money to enable them to live in comfort, have conservative minds, and do not like new ideas in finance. I predict that there will be much weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth on the part of many supporters of the present financial system when they get their income tax assessments. Those who impose taxes overlook thousands of people in Australia with incomes of from £500 to £1,500 a year who spend every penny that they receive. Indeed, some of them live beyond their means and fail to pay their debts. What will those people do? A man with an income of £1,500 a year will have to pay about £7 a week extra in taxes.  H.e  will have to find some means of saving that money. Obviously, he will not be able to live as he has done in 'the past. I once had the impudence to write a letter to a newspaper. I hoped that it would be published, hut when I read what purported to be my letter. I found that it had been turned upside down. The publication which I hold in my hand has no name on it, but I know that it has been issued by the "banks, although it is said to be issued by the Sound Finance League of Australia, 54 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 422 Collins-street, Melbourne. I imagine that the Melbourne office ' is " in Collins House,' the centre which' really controls Australia. 
Collins House wields  a tremendous . influence in this chamber. ' Directors of the companies whose offices are situated in that building control the principal industries of Australia.. During the bank-created depression in the United States of America a newspaper in Detroit described bankers as benefactors. That newspaper regards as a benefactor a banker who will lend £400 or £500 on a house worth £1,000 if the owner will assign to the bank his right and title to the property. The bank can call up the mortgage a week later if it cares to do so. I have heard a banker likened to a man who lends another person an  umbrella  when the' weather is' dry and there is ho sign of rain, but sends for the umbrella when a storm is about to break. 'The borrower gets wet in any case. ' In- 1929, when the bank , smash occurred in the United States of America, the "banks closed down on 200,000  factories, ' 3,000,000 stores,". 3,000,000 farms' and 5,000,000 homes. They took from ' the people of that country - wealth " amounting to 3,000,000,000 dollars. - 
Generally, the people who ask others to make sacrifices are themselves in comfortable positions, possibly because they have inherited considerable sums of money. ' The new taxation measure will impose' a tax qf 10s. on a man earning £150 a year. Fancy taxing a man who earns £3 a week, when a royal commission has reported that money can be obtained from the Commonwealth Bank free of interest! The Government should put on its thinking cap before taxing a man with such a small income. Unfortunately it shows no consideration for any one except the private 'banks. On previous occasions, I have shown how the Australian Mutual Provident Society invested £1,500,000 in government loans and received as commission oh the transaction the sum of £3,150. The Minister representing a previous Treasurer admitted that the loan provided for commission at the rate of 5s. per cent, being paid. The Australian Mutual Provident Society is not foolish enough to pay 6 per cent, on an overdraft from the hank while receiving only 3 per cent, from the Government for its investment. It transferred to the bank its bonds valued at £1,500,000, and in that way raised the money. A previous .Treasurer admitted that when it was desired to float, a loan of £9,000,000, the banks would not lend more than £4,850,000. 
According to a recent, statement by the Commonwealth Bank dealing with the real currency of this country - the note issue - the whole of the private banks hold notes valued at only £15,000,000. There are only two sources from which money can be obtained: First, there is the Commonwealth Bank, from which money can 'be obtained free of interest; and secondly, there are the private banks, which lend money at 3^ per cent. At any time since 1912, when the Commonwealth Bank was established, it was possible for the government of the day to do what I have suggested. Had I .been a member of this chamber twenty years ago, and had my advice been accepted, Australia's national debt to-day would not be so great as it is: Each week this country pays £1,000,000 in interest on loans raised in previous years. Do honorable senators opposite think that the people of Australia can pay the new taxes as well as that interest, and carry on the business of the country? They should remember that the .taxes will have to be paid weekly, whereas it is possible to finance the war on credit which would not have to :be paid back. I am forced to repeat myself because, unfortunately, honorable senators do not appear capable of retaining in their minds for more than a week the things that I tell them. I have done my best to make honorable senators opposite take a serious view of things, particularly the subject in which I specialize. I have pointed out before that not only could the Commonwealth Bank lend money free of interest, but also that the increased prosperity resulting from the circulation of the money would mean that the Government would get its money back indirectly. The Bank of England is still trading under a charter which was granted in 1694, notwithstanding that recent legislation provides for the taking over of thebank. When the Chancellor of the Exchequer was asked if he was prepared to 'bring in legislation to alter the charter of the Bank of England, and to require that the names of its shareholders be made public, he answered with an emphatic " No ". Although the Bank of England is still allowed to lend money to the nation, the British Government is appealing to the Dinted States of America for financial assistance. Reference has been made to the great Victory Loan, but it is well known that Britain does not owe the bulk of that money, to the American Government. Many millions were subscribed by Wall-street, in the same way as Australian banks create credit out of nothing. With the British at their wit's end to raise credits for the purchase of war materials, what is the objection to the Government using the credit of the nation, as Germany is doing? How can we expect to beat a powerful adversary, which is using such financial methods?For five years, Germany has been using the national credit for the purpose of providing armaments. 
No man can be expected to beat his opponent with inferior equipment, and Australia, from the financial stand-point, is badly equipped. When  Mr. Winston  Churchill warned the British Government five years ago that Germany had spent £800,000,000 on re-armament, Ministers laughed at him. Are they laughing at him to-day? 
The British have adopted another course; they' are borrowing their requirements from the Bank of England. Last Friday's issue of the  Sydney Morning Herald  contained a news item headed, "Big Increases in all Taxation; Federal Budget Record". In another column was published an article entitled "The danger of credit expansion ; further tax increases possible ". In 1939 the then Federal Treasurer  (Mr. 
Spender) stated at a meeting of the Loan Council that it. would be disastrous if the present war were financed under the same policy as was the last war. In his opinion, the adoption of similar methods to those which were employed, in 1914-18 would have both tragic and harmful results. What does  Mr. Spender  mean? Unless he advocated the elimination of interest through the use of national credit, the statement has no meaning at all. From time to time honorable senators have been informed that the Government will use the credit of the central bank. I desire to explain to the Chamber precisely what that declaration means. For one thing, Australia has no central bank in the true sense of the word. When a British financial mission, headed by  Sir Otto  Niemeyer and  Mr. Guggenheim,  caine to Australia we were warned that it would be necessary for us to tighten our belts, becausewe were living beyond our means. 
I understand that it was a United Australia party-United Country party administration. 
At all events.  Sir Otto  stated that the standard of living enjoyed by Australians was too high, and that they must be prepared to draw in their belts, because our credits in London, which are required to meet interest payments on borrowed money, had reached a dangerously low level. On a number of occasions, I have described to honorable senators the financial position of Australia when the Scullin Government assumed office. The Bruce-Page Government had left an empty treasury and an adverse overseas trade balance of £30,000,000. Driven to seek new sources of revenue, the unfortunate Prime Minister, as a temporary expedient, imposed a sales tax of 2 per cent., which brought in between £2,000,000 and £3,000,000 in the first year of its operation. As an illustration of the manner in which the sales tax has been multiplied by United Australia party-United Country party governments, I paid tax at the rate of 15 per cent, upon some purchases that I made in Sydney this week. During the current financial year the Treasurer expects to raise £20,000,000 from the sales tax, and to do so he has found it necessary to curtail the list of goods that hitherto have always been exempt. In fact, the Treasurer is at his wit's end to realize his budget estimate of £270,000,000. Obviously the money cannot be obtained under the present proposals, and I prophesy that, in the near future, the Government will receive a severe knock when the money is not found. 
Once upon a time Ministers took a delight in answering my questions dealing with finance. When I asked, in reference to a loan floated by a former Treasurer  (Mr. Casey),  how much of the money was bank credit and how much was subscribed by the public, I elicited that out of £4,500,000, the sum of £3,000,000 represented bank-created credit. In my opinion, that is really counterfeit money. The banks have a charter under which they may trade. They are the only authorities which may make counterfeit money and lend it to the Government at 3 per cent. If a man makes a florin in a lead mould, he may be sentenced to  two years' imprisonment. My views relating to finance are supported by excellent authority. In London in 1936, the Bank Officers' Guild, which represents the employees of banks, carried unanimously a resolution drawing the attention of the directors of British banks to the growing public opinion that the present financial system could not hold up the economic system, and that if the directors did not voluntarily alter the system, they would be compelled to do so by public opinion and economic pressure. Such a warning substantiates my views upon the subject. 
In that dominion the so-called Labour Government has " sold out " to the banks. When the Treasurer  (Mr. Nash)  went to London, he was required to pay for the sins of the previous Government. The deeper one gets into debt, the greater is the restriction placed upon his liberty of action. 
For the simple reason, as I explained to the honorable senator, that the Government "sold out" to the banks. 
When  Mr. Nash  went to London, he found that he could not convert any of the loans that had been raised by New Zealand, because his Government had made a radical change in the dominion's financial policy. In those circumstances,  Mr. Nash  had to take what he could get. To provide a homely illustration, if I owe to my tailor £10 in respect of a suit of clothes, he will advise me, when I go to buy a new suit, to take one valued at £6. If the Labour party comes into power after the next elections, it will be obliged to carry the sins of this Government, in the same way as the Labour party in New Zealand was compelled to carry the sins of a nationalist administration. 
For 25 years the United Australia party-United Country party Administrations in the Commonwealth Parliament have followed a policy contrary to Labour principles. 
I have already answered that question in reply to  Senator Herbert  Hays. 
Yes. As I admitted, the Labour Government "sold out" to the banks. Whilst I am not responsible for what is taking place in New Zealand, the party which  Senator A.  J. McLachlan supports is responsible for the financial policy of Australia. The private banks are doughty adversaries. If subjected to severe treatment, they are liable to react as they did in the United States of America. In the bank " crash " which occurred during the depression the Government had to come to the assistance of 4,000 banking institutions. 
If that institution had not been conducted in the interests of the private hanks, it need not have failed. On the clay that its doors wore closed it held £29,000,000 worth of bonds; but all assistance was denied it until it went out of business. In fact, big depositors, warned1 of the impending crash, withdrew large sums of money before that occurred. Apar.t from the Commonwealth Bank, the former Savings Bank of New South "Wales was doing more business than any other financial institution in Australia, and it was always a thorn in the side of the private banks. With the help of politicians, the institution was finally broken. Any bank, regardless of its financial reserves, can bc compelled to close its doors if it is subjected to such assaults as those that were directed against the Savings Bank of New South Wales. Over and over again, the manager of the bank appealed to the Government to compel politicians to refrain from, declaring that the institution was insolvent. 
Order ! 
Order! The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
To the difference between the opinions held by the  former  Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  and the present Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  I have already referred. There arc three ways in which money can be raised for the purpose of carrying on the war - by taxation, by revenue, and -by the issue of bank credit. I fail to understand the mentality of the Government, when it blindly refuses to recognize the advantage of obtaining the necessary money from the people's bank. Honorable senators may recall that I suggested, in a question to the Treasurer, that a clause should be inserted in ali Government contracts to compel tenderers to place their business with the Commonwealth Bank. Such a provision is only fair and reasonable, as it represents reciprocity in business. From that source alone, hundreds ,of thousands of pounds could be secured. The present system is not only inadequate but also unsatisfactory. Banks display large advertisements exhorting the public to purchase Avar savings certificates, and the Treasurer is relying to a large extent upon that source for revenue with  which to meet Avar expenditure. The staffs of the banks make weekly contributions to the purchase of these certificates, and the banks, at the end of each month send to the Commonwealth Treasury a cheque for the total amount. They receive the cash, and again use it a3 the basis for loans eight or nine times greater. This system is very profitable for the banks. Of course, at the beginning the  Avar  savings certificates scheme was not worth-while from the bank's point of view, because no person or institution is allowed to hold more than £250 worth of certificates. The banks, however, had a brainwave and soon overcame that limitation by putting their employees into the scheme in the way I have described, but it is well-known that  when  the loan is fully subscribed, no money will have been paid by the banks to the Treasury. All the Government  receives  is the right to draw cheques against the banks for the amounts  which  they have contributed. I do not know  why  the . Government - permits, this racket to continue. I cannot understand why members of Parliament, who are elected to look after the interests of the taxpayers, allow the private banks to profit, in this way. At hundreds of public meetings held throughout the Commonwealth resolutions have been passed demanding that the Commonwealth Bank, as the people's  bank,  be utilized to finance the nation's Avar effort. Such resolutions, however, have bf:en disregarded. I have asked what amount the Government has received,  first,  as interest-free money from the Commonwealth Bank, and, secondly, from the private banks at 3-^ per cent, interest, but I am unable to obtain that information. Apparently the Government is becoming cunning, and is now adopting the attitude that such fact3 should not be made public. Many people have made straightout gifts of money to the Government, whilst many others have contributed large sums in the form of interest-free loans. They are the real patriots. Despite its profits, no private bank has made any gift of this kind to the Government. It cannot be said that the private banks do not make substantial profits. The Commonwealth Bank's profit for the year ended the 30th June, 1939, was £1,138,000, which, on the bank's trading capital of £6,000,000, represents a profit of 25 per cent. 
In times of stress and trouble like these we can get away from the orthodox methods of finance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Presentation of Address-in-Reply. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  agreed to- 
That the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's opening Speech he presented to  His Excellency  by the  President  and such senators as may desire to accompany him. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).-  I shall ascertain when it will be convenient for  His Excellency  the Governor-General to receive the AddressinReply, and will inform honorable senators accordingly. . 
I lay on the  table - 
Tariff Board - Deport for year 1939-40, together with summary of recommenda- tions . 
The report is accompanied by an annexure, containing a summary of the Tariff Board's recommendations which have been finally considered by the Government, and setting out what action has been taken in respect of each recommendation. 
As practically the whole of the Tariff Board's recommendations included in the annexure as tabled, are covered by Tariff Board reports which have already been made available to honorable members, it is not proposed to print the annexure. 
 I direct the attention of the Postmaster-General  (Senator MeLeay)  to the large and costly advertisements of a rather 'extraordinary nature appearing in to-day's issues of the  Sydney Morning Herald'  and the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  Apparently these advertisements have been inserted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I am not criticizing the newspapers because they always endeavour to publish all advertisements, particularly when they are supplied by persons who can pay for their insertion. The advertisements which are headed " Propaganda Against the Australian Broadcasting Commission exposed " refer readers to the current issue of the  A.B.G. Weekly  in which appears a similar heading with these additional words "The better the programmes the stronger the attacks ". This statement is so absurd that it carries its own condemnation. I have read the lengthy editorial in the  A.B.C. Weekly  more than once, and so far as I can see, it does not expose the nature of the attacks or by whom they were made. It is implied, however, that they were made by newspapers and by those controlling the B-class broadcasting stations. Advertising on such an extensive scale is costly, yet readers of the journal will doubtless experience the difficulty which I did in ascertaining who made the attacks referred to which are certainly not exposed. Generally speaking I find that the brighter and more interesting programmes are broadcast by the commercial stations, which I often' listen-in to in preference to the national stations. I have not heard any propaganda against the Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast by the commercial stations which do not refer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission in any way. Such propaganda probably exists only in the imagination of members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It is true that a few weeks ago a press paragraph stated that  Mr. Randolph  Bedford of Queensland had said that the Australian Broadcasting Commission imported musical frauds  from the old world. Those who know  Mr. Bedford's  picturesque personality and his command of language would read that paragraph with interest, but would not attach much significance to it. I do not think that his statement could be regarded as sustained propaganda against the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It does not justify the insertion of expensive advertisements in the daily press, or the publication of articles such as that which appeared in this week's issue of the  A.B.C. Weekly.  I know of nothing to justify such a bitter attack. The commercial broadcasting stations which pay their way broadcast many sponsored programmes and advertisements, and no doubt when advertisements are being broadcast some persons tune-in to another station. The B-class stations pay the PostmasterGeneral's Department an annual broadcasting fee and do not receive anything in the form of a subsidy such as is paid to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. A huge revenue is derived from listeners' licence-fees. 
The honorable senator is entitled to his own opinion on that matter. The commercial stations, which broadcast interesting programmes, have pioneered districts which for years were not served by the national stations or had only a very limited service. For a long period there was only one national broadcasting station inWestern Australia - the position has been altered in recent years - and the commercial stations provided programmes which were, and are, highly appreciated. The fact that the commercial stations are extremely popular with listeners, who, of course, have the right to choose the stations to which they will listen, shows that the service which they render is appreciated. Whilst the commercial stations do not receive any subsidy from the large sum collected annually byway of licence-fees, the Australian Broadcasting Commission receives10s. from every licence-fee received by the Postmaster-General's Department. According to the commission's figures, the Australian Broadcasting Commission receives a revenue of £616,500 annually. There is no reason why the  A.B.C. Weekly,  which is produced at a heavy loss with funds provided by the people, the necessity for the publication of which has been questioned, should be permitted to attack the commercial stations and the Australian press in the wayit., has done under, the pretext of replying to propaganda. The insulting tone of the editorial appearing in the  A.B.C. Weekly  may be judged from the following final words :  - 
The  A.B.C Weekly  will survive the Blitzkrieg and live to make handsome contributions to the programme fund. 
I believe that the fund provided for supplying programmes and the general funds of the commission will be depleted if it continues to expend money on costly and unnecessary advertisements in' the daily newspapers, and publishes articles such as that appearing in the current issue of the  A.B.C. Weekly'.  To apply the term "Blitzkrieg" to those who have dared to criticize the autocratic action of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is an insult to intelligent people, to the commercial stations which are rendering a useful service, and to the Australian press. 
In fact, the  A.B.C. Weekly  is a weak weekly. It was never intended that listener's licence-fees should be spent on  advertisements such as those which appear in to-day's Sydney newspapers.' I do not know whether similar advertise- ' mends have appeared in newspapers in other parts of the Commonwealth, but if money is to be expended in that direction, the funds of the commission are being wastefully and unnecessarily depleted. Those who purchase the  A.B.C. Weekly  to peruse radio programmes and news do not wish to read two or three pages of abuse of the commercial stations and of Australian newspapers. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [9.11]. - I wish to refer to an answer given to a question which I asked upon notice to-day concerning the price of tea. The question read - 
What reasons are advanced by the PriceFixing Commissioner, for tea being retailed to the consumers of Canberra at the price of 2s. 10d. a lb. when, in other States, the price is 2s. 3d. and 2s. 4d. a lb. ? 
I did not mention any particular brand of tea, but merely stated that 2s. l0d. is charged in Canberra, whereas in other parts of Australia, the prevailing price is 2s. 3d. or 2s. 4d. a lb. 
SenatorFoll. -For some brands of tea. 
The answer supplied by the, Prices Commissioner stated that the comparisons I made did not cover the same brand of tea. I did not' mention any brand. The answer given is inaccurate, because in otherparts of the Commonwealth, Bushell's tea is sold at 2s. 3d. or 2s. 4d. a lb, whilst in Canberra, the price is 2s. l0d. a lb. That is the comparison I am now making.I understand that there has since been, a slight increase of the price of Bushell's tea, but the consumers in Canberra are not on the same basis as those in other States; 
No; but the prices mentioned are entirely different from those given by me. Even on the maximum price of. 2s. 4d. a lb. paid in Western Australia, there is a difference of 6d: I am dissatisfied with the answer given by the Minister. 
I also asked another question relating to an application - made to the Commonwealth Bank in Melbourne for a bank draft to pay a debt owing in New Zealand. The Commonwealth Bank refused to grant the application, but when the applicant insisted and said that the business had to be done through the Commonwealth Bank his application was successful. In other cases the Commonwealth Bank has refused to grant similar applications. I agree with  Senator Darcey  that those controlling the Commonwealth. Bank do not seek, business from the public. I desire to know whether that policy is laid down by the board of directors. 
SenatorFRASER.- We have heard so much about the Commonwealth Bank being free from political control that I thought that this Government would see that the interests of the public are safeguarded. 
.  - Last week, I asked the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  without notice, if he was aware of the' decision made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to dispense with the services of Jim Davidson's dance band, and whether honorable senators were justified in assuming that the economy drive against  Mr. Davidson  was to offset the loss of £37,000 incurred by the  A.B.C. Weekly  in the first seven months of its publication. I also inquired whether, the Minister would see that the A.B.C. dance band was retained at full strength, in view of its great popular appeal. The Minister replied that the matter would receive consideration. I should now like to know whether consideration has been, given to this matter, and what is the Minister's- decision. As  Senator Johnston  has referred to a certain advertisement relating to the Australian Broadcasting. Commission, and as one of the best items broadcast by the commission was the " Out of the Bag " programme, it seems to me that an injustice has been done in dispensing with the band's services. 
.  -  in reply -  Last Thursday  Senator Aylett  asked whether, in view of the possibility of further stoppages of the shipping service between Victoria, and Tasmania by the laying ofmines in Bass Strait, I would give consideration to the inauguration of a continuous, air mail service between Tasmania and the mainland, inorder to obviate a recurrence of recent conditions underwhichmailspiled up in the Tasmanian post offices. I am now able to inform the. honorable senator that, under present arrangements, all letter mails- between Tasmania and the mainland are despatched by the air service. As a result of the recent temporary closing of Bass Strait to shipping, there was a considerable accumulation of second-, third and fourth classmatter. The question of utilizing the air service for the transport of other than first class mail matter was given attention; but; in view of advices from the Navy Department that the early re-opening of the sea route was anticipated, it was decided that the heavy expenditure involved in air transportation would not be justified. In the eventof further stoppages of shipping in Bass Strait, the matter of forwarding all classes of mail by air will be promptly considered. 
I appreciate the point raised by Sena-  tor Johnston with regard to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have nothad an opportunity to see the advertisement referred  to  by him, or to study the article in the  A.B.C. Weekly,  but I shall look into the matter. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has fairly wide powers. I am not in a position  to  state offhand the reasons for dispensing -with the services of the dance band referred to by the honorable senator, but, as I promised  Senator Armstrong,  I shall take the matter up with the commission at the earliest opportunity. In my opinion, the - commission is, on the whole, rendering good service to Australia. It would be difficult for it  to please every body. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. - 
PAPERS. 
The following papers were ' pre sented :  - 
Arbitration(Public Service) Act - Determinations by the Arbitrator,-  &amp;c. - - 
No. 28 of 1940 - Australian Postal Electricians' Union. 
No. 29 of 1940 - Commonwealth Storemen and Packers' Union. 
No. 30 of 1940-Commonwealth Store- menand Packers' Union; and Commonwealth Naval Storehousemen's Association. 
No. 31 of 1940 - Commonwealth- Temporary Clerks' Association. 
Commonwealth Public Service Act - Appointments - Department of Defence Coordination -M. P. Colebrook and R. L. Fraser. 
Commonwealth Railways Act - Report on Commonwealth Railways Operations, for year 1939-40'. 
Customs  Act-Regulatioiis  - Statutory Rules 1940, No. 256. 
Dairy Produce Export Control Act - Fifteenth Annual Report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board, for the year 1939-40, together with Statement by the' Minister for Commerce regarding the operation of the Act. 
Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940, Nos. 252, 253. 
Defence Act- and Naval Defence Act- Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940,- No. 254. 
National Security Act: - 
National Security (General) Regulations - Orders - . .... 
Control of Highways, and use  of  land. 
Prohibited Places (10). - 
Prohibiting work on land, and use of land . 
Taking possession of land, &amp;c. (53). 
Use of land (5). 
Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940, Nos.. 
249, 250, 251. 
Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940, No. 255. 
Norfolk Island Act - Ordinances of 1940 - 
No. 3 - Interpretation. 
No. 4 - Advisory Council. 
Petroleum Oil Search Acts - Statement of Expenditure for period 28th May, 1936, to 30th June,' 1940. 
Scat of Government Acceptance Act and Seat of Government- (Administration) Act- 
Ordinances of 1940 - 
No. 18- Public Baths. 
No. 19 - Inflammable Liquids. 
No. 20 - Court of Petty Sessions. 
Regulations - 1940 - No. 7 (Police 
Ordinance). 
Seat of Government (Administration) Act - Statement of Receipts and Expenditure of the Australian CapitalTerritory for year 1939-40. 
Spirits Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1940, No. 248. . ' 
-Ihave received letters from the Leader of the Government in the Senate and from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate nominating, in accordance with Standing Order No. 36a, Senators Cameron, Clothier, Cooper, Courtice, Herbert Hays, Allan MacDonald and Spicer as members of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  -  by leave-  agreed to - 
That a Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinancesbe appointed, to consist of Senators Cameron, Clothier, Cooper, Courtice, Herbert Hays, Allan MacDonald and Spicer, such senators having been duly nominated in accordance with the provisions of Standing Order No. 36a. 
I lay on the table- 
Fifth Annual Report of the Australian Meat Board for the year 1939-40, together with a statement by the Minister for Commerce regardingthe operation of the act. 
With the concurrence of the Senate, I suggest that, in order to conserve stocks of paper, this report be not printed as a parliamentary paper this year. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the propaganda appearing in the editorial columns of the  A.B.C.Weekly  attacking the attractive programmes and legitimate activities of the Commercial (Bclass) broadcasting stations? 
In view of the fact that B-class stations pay a licence fee and receive no subsidy from the annual listener's fee, will the Government see that they are protected from a recurrence of these attacks by a journal which is heavily subsidized from the publicpurse? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :- 
No, but I shall read the article referred to at the earliest opportunity. 
Since I am charged with the administration of the laws governing the operation of commercial' stations as well as those relating to the national stations, I shall see that both classes of broadcasting activities are adequately protected from any unjust criticism. 
asked the 
Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has refused to give the Government details of the annual losses being made on the  A.B.C. Weekly?  If so, why? 
If not, will the Government make the information available to Parliament? 3.Is it intended to permit this loss to continue during the duration of the war? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
No. 2 and 3. These matters are at present under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the latest Tariff Board report on the inquiry into the Australian tobacco industry has been received by the Government? 
If so, is this report available to members? 
If not, when is this report likely to be available ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer: -  1.2 and 3. - The report will be made available to-day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What are the conditions and/or regulations governing the importation of hickory scythe handles into Australia? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer : - 
Hickory scythe handles arc admissible under the  by-laws  provisions of the customs tariff at rates of duty of free (British preferential tariff) and 15 per cent, plus '1 per cent, primage (general tariff). 
Under the Customs (Import Licensing) Regulations the importation of all goods the produce or i manufacture of non-sterling countries is subject to licence. Licences are issuable to individual importers of hickory scythe handles to a value equivalent to . the value Qf like importations in the year 1938-39. 
Hickory scythe handles produced or manufactured in sterling countries arc not subject to licence and may be imported without restriction. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government given consideration, to the payment of 6d. extra a bushel for wheat of the J'030-40 crop, as recommended by the' Australian Wheatgrowers Federation J 
If so, with what result? 
If the wheat now held by the Australian Wheat Board docs not realize sufficient to meet the extra (id. a bushel, will the Government meet the difference as a form of assistance to the industry? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 1, 2 and 3. An announcement has already been made that a further advance of 3d. a bushel has been approved in respect of the wheat of the 1039-40 harvest. Consideration will be given to the amount of the final payment when the realization from sales of all wheat in the No. 2 Pool are known. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
. Is it a fact that in many parts of Western Australia it is almost impossible to purchase either apples or pears of fair average quality* at reasonable prices? 
Is it a fact that it is practically impossible to get first quality fruit at ali ? 
Is it a fact that in the wheat-growing districts of the State it is estimated that consumption of fruit has dropped by 80 per cent, as against that of the previous season? 
Will he have this matter investigated by the Apple and Pear Board with a view to such relief action as may be found possible? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : -  1, 2, 3  and  4. The harvesting of apples and pears will soon commence, and it is hoped that ample supplies of good quality fruit will be available. It is not known whether consumption of fruit in the wheat-growing districts has dropped by 80 per cent. 
asked the Minister representing, the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Would the Minister inform the Senate from whom the Government collects the sales tax directly - the manufacturer, the distributor or warehouse, or the retail shop-keeper? 
Is the sales ta'x estimated on the manufacturer's cost or on  the  retail selling price after it has been loaded with intermediary profits? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
The Government collects tax directly - («.) From manufacturers on sales to retailers and goods sold directly by retail; (ft) From wholesale merchants whose sales are exclusively or primarily by wholesale - on all their sales; (fi) From wholesale merchants whose1 retail sales exceed their wholesale sales - on wholesale sales; (&lt;i) At the customs upon goods imported by retailers and consumers; («) From manufacturers and wholesale merchants who manufacture goods or purchase taxfree goods' and apply  them  to. their own use - on the goods so applied. 2. (or) When goods are sold by wholesale, the tax is calculated on the price for which1 the goods are sold : (6) When goods are sold' by retail or applied to. a person's, own use, the tax is calculated in accordance with rules set out in the appropriate acts, the general aim of which is to cause tax to be paid on the price for which the goods would have been sold by wholesale if they had been so sold; (c) When tax i-s paid on imported goods at the point of entry for home consumption, the value for sales tax is an amount which exceeds by twenty )&gt;er centum the sum of the following: - (i) the value for duty converted into Australian currency; and (ii) the duty of customs payable in respect of the goods. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the former  Treasurer  Mr. Spender,  stated  ah  the Loan Council meeting in November, 193!), that to finance the present war in the same way as the last would lead, in. his opinion, to tragic and harmful results? 
If so, will the present Treasurer promise to use the national credit'  go  that this cannot possibly happen? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers : - 
No. 
Sec answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the prices of many primary products have been pegged since the outbreak of war, but that costs of production have been continuallyrising? 2.If so, will the Government give an assurance to primary producers that they will receive the same consideration in respect of reasonable returns for their products as is given to other sections of war industry, and that whatever sacrifices may be necessary will be spread equitably over all sections of the community? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers: - 
Prices in Australia ofall commodities, including primary products, are subject to control.The export prices of primary products are determined chiefly by the rates of payment included in contracts of sale to the United Kingdom. Export prices are also influenced to some extent by the demand of markets other than the United Kingdom. Detailed investigations have not been made into the costs of production of primary products. 
It is the policy of the Government to give equal consideration to allsections of the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Who are the personnel of the Flax Production Committee? 
Will the Government give consideration to appointing representatives of flax-growers to the above committee? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
The personnel of the Flax Production Committee comprises  Mr. J.  A. Stevenson,  chairman,  Department of Supply and Development;  Dr. A.  E. V. Richardson,  deputy  chief executive officer, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research;  Mr. I.  H. Boas, chief of division, Division of Forest Products, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research';  Mr. R.  Bruce Hogg and  Mr. E.  H.Kinnear, jun., as persons experienced in the production of fibre from straw. The committee is an expert body and docs not represent particular interests. 
The main functions of the Flax Production Committee are to collect the straw and process it, leaving the actual production side to the States. The committeee maintains the closest contact with State Departmentsof Agriculture in the three States concerned, which in turn are directly in touch with growers. The committee is essentially a manufacturing body, and it is not, therefore, considered necessary to provide for direct representation of producers on it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen the report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 8th November last to the effect that the site for the No. 8 Elementary Flying School at Narrandera may be abandoned? 
Is this report correct? 3.What information is available to the department now that was not available when the Narrandera site was first selected? 
How much money has been spent in the preparation ofthe Narrandera site? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers : - 
Yes. 
No. 
None. 

<graphic href="165332194011283_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister inform the Senate what the saving in petrol amounts to since the rationing system came into operation? 
The Commonwealth Liquid Fuel Control Board is now reviewing the results of the petrolrationing scheme, and its report will be considered by the Government early in the new year. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What was the price paid to the Wing, Gauge and Instrument Company, of16 Bakerstreet, North Richmond, Victoria, for eight cartridge gauging machines for use at the Small Arms Factory, Footscray? 
What was the price paid for two similar machines imported prior to the declaration of war, and installed at the factory? 
What system has the department for policing the production cost ofthese machines, and speeding up their manufacture so that the totalcost is kept to the absolute minimum ? 
Were quotes obtained, elsewhere before an -agreementwasmade with the above firm for twelvemachines? 
Is itafact that; inaddition to the cheque representing. 4 per cent on the total cost ofeach machine, the manager of the above firm receives £14a weekas wages from the department ? 6.Whatwagesperweekdoes his partner, a registered bookmaker, receive? How is this money earned? 
Is thereaGermanwithNazi sympathies employed by this firm ? 
Twenty-one (21) machines were ordered from the Wing Gauge and Instrument CompanyinMarch,1940,onacostplusbasis..The order was subsequently reduced to twelve (12) machines. . These have not yet beencompleted and therefore the finalcosts havenot been ascerta ined,but itis estimated that these machineswillcostabout £1,050 each. 
The machines ordered from Germany cost £827 landed inAustralia duty free. If protective tariff were, applicable the cost would be. higher than the local cost. 3.Inviewofthegreaturgencyfor these machines constant pressure was applied to the manufacturer, hence extra costs for overtime, Sunday work, &amp;c.The costs of production are supervised by astaff of accountants under the DirectorofFinance. 
As the cartridgemachines are of highly intricate nature (oftype not even madein England) it was impracticable to observe the' customary practice of inviting public tenders. The machines so far delivered are in fact better constructeda ndmore accuratethan, those obtainedfromGermany There are 300 parts in. a machine. 
At thetimethe contract was entered into it wasarrangedthateach partner should be paid £14 aweekfor the reason that both were  mechanicsdevoting their wholetime (including . overtime) to the business. It is considered that each of these partners would earn as a tradesman not less than £14 a week in wages' andovertime, and it is a fact that, owing to the urgency of the requirement, the partners were requested to work day and night and through week-ends in order to get out the machines. During the currency of the contract one of the partners withdrew from the firm and was replaced by another referred to in the next following reply. 
Whether or not the incoming partner is a registered bookmaker appears to be irrelevant. Repeated inquiries have been made about the services rendered to the partnership by this partner arid assurances have been repeatedly given that his services are worth the amount whichhe receives. He is mainly employed in supervising the carrying out of sub-contracts and arranging for the supplies of material required by the partnership. 
An allowance of 4 per cent, on cost by way of profit is very much' below the customary rates charged by contractors for this class of work. 7.Close investigation has shown that there isno German with Nazi sympathies employed by the firm. 
 by leave  - read a copy of a statement which was delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Sir FrederickStewart  (vide  page 251). 
Even with the amount of time which has been at. the disposal of honorable senators since the budget papers were presented to the chamber, the task of absorbing their contents and implications  has  been enormousIsuggest to the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  that before the debate proceeds much further, he should have explanatory notes prepared to assist honorable senators to approach the subject with all the seriousness that it warrants. Australia's task, admittedly,is tremendous, and honorable senators representing the Labour party have never failed to recognize the great responsibility that the international situation has placed upon the Government. In acknowledging that fact, we realize that there is need for dispatch in dealing with the budget, which is the most important that this Parliament has ever been called upon to consider. That statement, however, does not imply that proper consideration should not be given to every essential detail. The Minister should understand that every honorable senator on this side of the chamber desires and asks for the opportunity fully to debate the subject. 
Tlie budget, by which the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  proposes to raise the tremendous sum of £270,000,000, is the biggest in the history of the Common.wealth. On a  per capita  basis, it represents an. annual expenditure of £29, or over . lOS. a week. Clearly, then, it merits the most serious consideration, particularly as tlie Commonwealth Government is not the only taxing authority in Australia. On top of 'the colossal amount which is to be raised, the States also superimpose their taxation. We are accustomed to the oft-repeated gibe that any  form  of taxation, however modest it  may  be. is unpopular, and I am sure that honorable senators will hear many references to the magnitude of the Treasurer's task. In point of fact, however, it is not the Treasurer who prepares the budget speech. As in numerous matters of administration, departmental officials do the real work. Although Ministers look wise in the chamber, they play a very minor part. What actually happens is that departmental officials confer and collaborate; the Commonwealth Bank Board and the associated private, profit-making banks also collaborate. 
Conspire ! 
Particularly, national credit! 
Has the Government given serious consideration to the inevitable repercussions of this budget ? I do not refer to political repercussions; these are so ominous, at the moment, that a Minister was put up this afternoon to read a document whichcontained nothing we had not already read in the press, for the sole purpose of occupying, half an hour while the Government was waiting to hear the nature of an amendment to the budget to be moved in the House of Representatives by the Leader of tlie Opposition. 
In planningthe budget, it is essential that three ideasshould be kept in view. Theobjectshouldbetosecure the utmost speed in allformsof defence production, a minimumofeconomic, personal and social lossand a maximum of defence expansion, withsound economic development. . The view of the Opposition is that the war mustbe accepted as the supreme challenge, but notas the only one. The Opposition willhot in any way seek to impede the Government in its effort to secure every penny required for carrying on the defenceofthis country. To win the war and to leave the nation disrupted, as thisbudget would do, and planless at the close of the war, would, in my opinion, be a national catastrophe second onlyin its injurious effects to the war itself.' The war cannot go on for ever. When it ends, the task of this nation will be primarily the absorption into peacetime industry of themen returning from the fighting zone. But the budget contains not a line showing that the Government is aware of this responsibility, or, being aware of it, is prepared to plan now for future needs. If any failure has been experiencedin the acceleration of our contribution to the Empire's defence effort, it is due to the fact that this Government has not foreseen the need to employ every man who now desires employment.Not only must employment be provided for every available unit in thecommunitywho is able and willing to work, but also all of our national resources must be exploited to the full, orto the extent to whichmanpower is available. If we fail in that regard, Australia will not make its maximum contribution to the Empire's war effort. Until we do that it is useless to seekto impose upon the people a maximum -financial contribution. 
I have no desire to detract from the remarkable war effort now being made by Australia, nor am I attempting to take any credit from the Government for the work that it has already done ; but the Opposition has repeatedly declared that the effort of the Government is a belated one. At least twelve months of valuable time; in which the necessary acceleration could have been achieved,has been lost. In support of my contention that we must plan for post-war needs I shall read what was said by.  Sir Harry  Brown, Commonwealth Co-ordinator-General of Works, at the beginning of this month - 
There was, he said, need for a " changed system of living " in order to obtain the maximum war effort, to abolish unemployment, and to give thepeople the sort of living they were entitled to. Great adjustments would obviously have to be made in our 'social life, and these would probably concern finance. Relief works were merely palliatives, and poor ones, for unemployment and were no real substitute for long-range planning. The problems of the Commonwealth, if they were to be solved, he said; would have to be solved by an allin effort, and not by any single authority. 
He was referring not only to an allin war effort, but also to present planning for future needs. 
SenatorCOLLINGS - If there is one thing that justifies all that members of this Opposition have said about its determination not to join a national government, it is this budget. If one of my responsibilities as a member of a national cabinet would be to go into the homes of the working classes of this country, and tell the people that I was party to reducing the wages of the poorer sections, I am extremely glad that I was not a member of such a government. I am, in fact, glad that I refused to have anything to do with that proposal. I should be a traitor to the class that sent me to fight for it in this Parliament, if I were prepared to do anything of that kind. Because I am not prepared to do it, I shall make suggestions this afternoon which I hope the Government will consider, even at this late hour. I ask it to take the incidence of the proposed taxation from the backs of those who are least able to bear it. It should not be applied in the dastardly cruel way proposed by the Government, but should be placed upon the shoulders of the Government's wealthy friends. In the past six years, at least £36,000,000 of tax re- missions has been presented to those who provide the Government's election funds and instruct it as to the policy to be followed in this Parliament. The Government could have raised that money and placed it in reserve for defence purposes, if ithad not been short-sighted and politically biased. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - The Labour Government in New Zealand has introduced in that dominion a greater standard of comfort for the working class, and a higher standard of living generally, than is found to-day in any other part of the world. 
SenatorAllanMacDonald. - And a higher rate of taxation. 
SenatorCOLLINGS- Of course, the taxes are high. In New Zealand there is only one taxing authority, but great constitutional difficulties have to be overcome before Australia will be able to remove the disability of six State Parliaments as well as the Commonwealth Parliament clipping their hands into the same pool for taxation purposes. We need one taxing authority, and that should be the national Parliament. In New Zealand, the prosperity of the whole of the people has been promoted to a remarkable degree, as the result of the experiments being made there by a Labour Government. 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- In New Zealand the income tax exemption is £200. 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- The national balance-sheet should not be produced on a commercial accountancy basis. Private businessesare entirely different from government undertakings. Of course, those who  produced this budget know exactlywhat the people need. It is usual to budget for a surplus, but we should not take out of the common pool an amount so large that the refilling of it will be impossible. Whatever happens, the man in charge of a privately owned concern must see that it shows a profit, whereas the chief aim of the Government should be the rendering of service to the community. There is no need for a national budget to follow the same lines as a balance-sheet prepared by the ordinary business accountant. I see in this budget the hand of the professional accountant. A nation's budget should provide for the needs of the nation and the requirements of its citizens. Sound government has regard to the finances of the nation, the government of the nation, and the welfare of the . people of the nation. Honorable senators opposite will probably agree with the first two of thoseobjectives, but not the third. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - The welfare of the people cannot be served by a budget such as the one before us: The underlying principle of taxation should be equality of sacrifice. Before a government imposes taxes, it should be sure that those taxes will not press unfairly on any section of the community. It seems to me that that should be a fairly easy task. Before the tax-gatherer is sent out to collect taxes, the Government should decide on a point in the scale of incomes below which no tax should be imposed in any circumstances whatever. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - My suggestion has no limitation. Somewhere in the scale of individual incomes there should be a rate below which no tax is payable. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - There is no evidence of it in the budget. Taxation should stop when to continue it would be to. lower the standard of life, health and happiness, because by so doing the morale of the nation would be impaired. I have heard workers whose standard of comfort is so low that they are forced to live in mean houses, in mean streets, and are obliged to resort to mean devices to keep up appearances, say, " What does it matter who wins the war? We have nothing to lose, because our standard is already so low that we cannot be worse off than we are ". 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - I have heard hundreds of Australians say it. I deprecate such statements, because I believe that even though their standard as to actual food may not be reduced, a life of servitude under Nazi rule would be worse thanactual poverty. Those who govern this country cannot afford to proceed with any taxation proposal which will destroy themorale of the people, for should it be destroyed there is no certainty as to what will happen when the testing time comes. Honorable senators know what has happened in many countries during recent years. 
Thisbudget takes no cognizance whatever ofthe need to improve our scale of social services; We cannot afford to neglect thesethings, Nor can we afford to; allow the dependants of our soldiers to goas poorly requited as they are. We cannot anylongerafford todeny the claims ofthe invalid and old-age pensioners to more, than £1a week, because £1to-daydoesnot buy the same quantity of goods : aswhen the system of pensions was instituted. 
Some say that the rich are going to pay for the war. With income tax up to 17s.6d. in the £1 there's no more need to talk about inequality - there won't be any rich men at the end of this war. Will there not? 
Already all our pundits of national finance are tentatively preparing the ground for the news that there must be a reduction in working class standards of living. No doubt the most essential skilled workers in arms industries will be able to keep their wage rates more or less abreast of rising prices. But it it quite certain that the average workers and the pensioners will not. 
It is uncertain whether the sacrifices demanded of these people will be as great on the basis of a mathematical proportion of their income as the sacrifices of the rich, but it is not quite good enough to work out sacrifices on the basis of a mathematical proportion. The rich man whose income tax increases so as to reduce his income by 25 per cent, is sacrificing far less than the poor man whose purchasing power is reduced by 10 per cent. Sacrifice is a physical, not a financial affair. There is no physical pain connected with the writing of a cheque to the Chancellor for the very largest amount. The sacrifice only begins when a man cannot purchase what he could have purchased if he had not paid the tax. From this point of view a man whose income before the war was £100.000 would sacrifice almost nothing if his taxation rose to £95,000, or 19s. in the £1. In every human essential one can live just as good a life on £5,000 as on £10,000. One's house may be smaller, but every one sleeps in a separate room. One's staff may be smaller, but there is still some one else tolight the fire. One's car may be smaller, but it still goes. One's sons may not go- to a public school - but why should they if they cannot win the open scholarships? In comparison with this,' a mere 5 per cent, reduction in the purchasing power of a working family 13 immediately reflected in the most definite physical  priva-tion  and pain. This is the more true since the considerable number of charges such as rent and insurance are fixed and a  5  per cent, reduction in the total income means therefore perhaps a 15 per cent, reduction in the sum available for food. 
That illustration stands for Australia as well as Great Britain. I believe in income taxation, and in the principle that the higher incomes should be taxed heavily. But. I believe also that the lower incomes should not be taxed at all and that the middle incomes should be taxed only moderately. I may think that the levy on my income is excessive, but I shall pay my instalments willingly. I believe in the income tax, and if I have income I am willing to pay the tax. I shall not be obliged to discharge anybody because I do not employ anybody,, but the average man on £1,000 a year, who is spending his entire income, or very nearly all of it, will be obliged to retrench. He will have to say to his wife, " We cannot employ a gardener any longer"; or " We cannot keep two maids in the future; one will have to be dismissed". If he has only one maid, then possibly he will be forced to dispense with her services. He may have to say, " We must withdraw Mary from college because we cannot continue to keep her at that expensive establishment; she must return home to help you with the house ". Things of that kind will happen right down the scale of incomes, and surely honorable senators opposite can see what will be the repercussions. There will be a substantial reduction of spending power, and it is spending power alone that matters - spending power in the hands of the poorer sections of the community, not the surplus in the hands of the rich. The people on the lower incomes, not the wealthy nor well-to-do, keep the wheels of industry moving. Our industries rely on the purchasing power of the men on £5, £7 and £10 a week, who spend, every penny of their salaries because they must do so  to  keep their household going. Those are the people who keep the shops, factories, and emporiums busy, and the effect of this budget will be to reduce their spending power. The result will be that shop assistants will be sacked, factory hands retrenched, and so on. The Government should realize that the war cannot be effectively fought in that way, and that a proper contribution to the national war effort cannot be secured ,by harshmeasures of this character. 
The Eight Honorable W. M. Hughes said in Sydney recently - 
So shrewd has the campaign been planned that not one of us can hope to escape. 
No good Australian will attempt to escape, but surely, in travelling down the scale of incomes, a point must be readied when common decency demands that an individual shall be left alone. In all the years I have worked in and out of Parliament, I have met representative crosssections of Australians, and I am sure: that not one would complain, or be unwilling to accept his share of the burden in- this time of national need, provided we can convince him that the allocation is fair and just in its incidence, and that it observes the cardinal principle of equality of sacrifice. Because this budget proposes to do neither of these things, I am not prepared to defend it either outside Parliament or in this chamber. All we are asking is that the well-to-do sections of the community be made to contribute from their superfluity of this world's goods, whereas, apparently,, the Government's intention is to- ask the poorer classes to contribute to the nation's needs out of their insufficiency. That is a simple  proposition  which we can all understand, and it does not need any further elucidation or explanation. 
A notable figure at Sydney University, Professor H. D. Black, said recently, " This war is no emergency for some people, .but a golden opportunity - a matter of business a little better than usual ". That is quite true, and the Government is taking no effective steps to prevent it, as I intend to show directly. 
As I said in the course of my opening remarks, despite the protests of the Opposition, this Government and its predecessors have been guilty of making large remissions of taxes to the wealthy sections: of the community on every possible occasion. Now, in order to make up the; leeway caused, by those unnecessary remissions and for other reasons, this injustice is being perpetrated. The reduction of the general exemption to £150 per annum will press most unfairly on the ' lower incomes. It is difficult to obtain relevant Australian figures, &lt;but let us examine the taxation proposals in order to find out exactly how they will 'work out. Under the old income tax scale, a man with a wife and two children, in receipt of £400 per annum, paid nothing, because his taxable income was' nil; but under the new proposals, his taxable income will be £200 and he will pay £10, provided I am right in estimating his liability at about ls. in the £1. The man with a wife and two children, on. a salary of £350 per annum, will have a taxable income of £100, and will contribute £5. If his income be £300 he will be exempt, as he should be. I repeat that these people live in mean streets, in mean houses, and have to resort to every mean device under .the sun in order to live. 
 They ' would not thank the honorable senator for his description. 
Under the old income tax scale, a man with a wife and one child, in receipt of £350 per annum, had no taxable income and paid nothing, but under the new proposals, his taxable income will be £150 and he will contribute £7 10s. For the same man on an income of £300, the taxable income will be £50, and his contribution will be £2 10s.; should his income he only £250 he .will pay nothing. Under the old scale, a man with a wife and no child in receipt of £300 paid no tax, but under the new proposals he will pay £5. For the man with a wife and no children an income of £250 a year will be subject to to tax of £2 10s., and an income of £200 or les3 will ! be exempt altogether. That exemption of incomes of £4 a week or less is no doubt considered to be a charitable gesture. Had I the power, my reprisals to these taxation proposals would be drastic. By act of Parliament I would provide that, for the duration of the war and twelve months thereafter, anyone who attempted to justify the existence of this budget should be paid only what the arbitration court prescribed as the basic wage. In a vain attempt to justify its iniquitous proposals, the Government claims magnanimity because it has decided to let the man in receipt of only £4 a week, with a wife and no children, off without paying income tax, paying no regard whatever to the possible existence of other family responsibilities. It is obvious that were the exemption higher the imposts would be much less severe, on the men with the lowest incomes, particularly married men. 
The Bight Honorable W. M. Hughes is reputed to have coined the slogan - I do not know how much effect it has had - " Populate or Perish ". I ask honorable senators how many men will be willing to marry and help to populate this country when they are .burdened with a .budget of this kind. It only needs a glance at the Government's proposals to see that all they accomplish is ,a blow at the poorer section of the community, who will become still poorer, while, at the same time, people on the top of the scale will be let off as lightly as the Government thinks it can get away with. All honorable senators know that that is true. 
I strongly urge that the exemption be raised. If the Government is not prepared to do that, I have another proposition : If the proposed graduated reduction of the exemption were not enforced until a higher income level were reached, say £400, or if £1 reduction for £2 of excess income were imposed at the point where the exemption ceased to apply, I have no doubt that the Government would find that the burden would be considerably eased. However, I understand the Government's attitude on this matter, is "the budget or nothing; take it or leave it ". Apparently the Prime Minister is not prepared to accept any suggestion or compromise. 
 Does the pres3 always report the honorable  Senator correctly  ? 
In the financial year 1936-7, there were 232,000 personal exertion income taxpayers, 26,000 property income taxpayers, and 43,000 payers of both property income tax and personal exertion income tax. The 1933 census revealed that there were 346,000 breadwinners on £260 per annum and over. Those figures are very interesting; only 60,906 people paid tax on income from personal exertion, and their payments were equivalent to that of a single man on a salary range of £250-£2S4 per annum; 41,917 persons paid tax on incomes equivalent to that of a single man on £2S4-£317 per annum ; 46,551 persons paid tax on incomes equivalent to that of a single man on £317-£384 per annum, and the remaining 73,000 people paid tax on incomes of over £384. In an endeavour to obtain statistics that would compare with similar figures in the United Kingdom, I obtained the following information: - On incomes of £1 to £500, 84 per cent, of the total number of taxpayers, received 62 per cent, of the national income; on incomes of £501 to £1,000, 11 per cent, of the total number of taxpayers received 16 per cent, of the national income; on incomes of £1,000 and over, 5 per cent, of the total taxpayers received 22 per cent, of the national income. That means that 95 per cent, of the people receive 78 per cent, of the national income, while 5 per cent, of the people receive 22 per cent, of the national income. On a basis of equality the 5 per cent, of taxpayers should receive only 4 per cent, of the national income. "We have to consider not only the direct taxation with which I am now dealing, but also the various other devices, such as the sales tax and customs and excise duties, which are employed to extract money from the pockets of the people. What section of the community will be most affected by the increase of the sales tax to 10 per cent, or 15 per cent.? 
But most goods are exempt. 
The Labour party urges the Government to utilize national credit to a greater degree for the purpose of financing our war effort. It is necessary that we should' stabilize our thoughts on such matters.  Senator. Darcey  complains - and, I think, rightly -that he has difficulty in getting honorablesenators opposite to understand whathe is talking about when he deals with the utilization of national credit. 
Do all honorable senators on that side understand  Senator Darcey  ? 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - I shall merely state wheremy party stands on this matter. In doing so I shall not attempt tosteal  Senator Darcey's  thunder. I hope that, so long as I remain a member of the Senate, that honorable senator will not modify his advocacy of the utilization of national credit, but will continue to tell his story with undiminished vigour, because the day will  come when honorable senators opposite, and the class they represent, will accept, asthey always do, as a preventive of revolution,  the proposals of the Labour party in thismatter. Every country in the worldhas financed its government, and itswars, on exactly the same conventional basis as that on which thisbudget is founded for the purpose of financing Australia to-day. That fact cannotbe denied. Not even Alberta,about which I heard an honorable senator sneer the other night, has ever implemented the financial policy advocated by the Labour party in this Parliament. 
And, of course, they are all wrong, whilst the honorable senator alone is right. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - If what I say he not correct, the reverse must be true - the world is all right,whilst thefinancial reform which I and others advocate is all wrong. Let us examine that proposition. The condition of aff airs in the world to-day should make every one of us righteously ashamed. In spite of - perhaps because of - conventional methods offinance we are constantly harassed with wars, and the threat of wars. Honorable senators Opposite seek to perpetuate those methods of our forefatherswhich have obviously landed the world in the tragic position in which it now finds itself. I do not want honorable senators opposite toagree that the remedy we propose is correct. Nor do I want them to admit that  Senator Darcey, Senator Collings  or the Opposition is right. But they must admit that, obviously, conventional methods of finance have failed, and that the time has arrived when we should take the risk of trying unconventionalmethods. The trouble with honorable senators opposite is that they are bound by the fetish of the  status quo;  their minds are ossified by convention. Their attitude reminds me of the story told of a convention of negroes at which, after one of the delegates had so much to say about the necessity for maintaining the  status quo,  a brotherdelegate who had listened to him aghast, arose and said, "  Mr. President,  what are de  status quo?"  And the  president  replied, " Don't you know what  statusquo  am? Dat is the mess we am all in ". Honorable senators oppositeare in amess, and they will never extricate themselves from it because their minds are not receptive to new ideas. The Government says that itcan finance our war effort in three ways: First, by raising public loans.In this way it expects to obtain £50,000,000. Secondly, by taxation; and by this means it hopes to obtain £31,000,000 of which £21,000,000 will represent direct taxation, and the balance indirect taxation. And, thirdly, the Government says that it will utilize credit expansion. At long last the Government has become converted to the idea of credit expansion ; but now, of course, it says that we cannot go very far in that direction. 
The Government has utilizedcreditexpansion foryears. 
SenatorCOLLINGS- The honorable senator is prepared to make that admission now. The reason is obvious; I need only ask how the Governmentis financing the wheat industry. In December, 1938, eight months before war was declared, Australian trading banks held £38,000,000 of government paper. On the 30th April of this year the same banks held £84,000,000 of government paper, half of which was in treasurybills. Four months later, onthe 31st August, after loans and revenue had been brought in, thetrading banks held £78,000.000 ofgovernment paper. If that money were held by the Commonwealth Bank, and was not traded off to the associated banks and used by them for the purpose of building up a damning superstructure of credit, as a means of extracting from the people of this country millions of pounds annually in interest, we should not have reached our present position in which it becomes apparent that after we repay our original debt, we shall still owe in interest an amount equal to the principal. How has that national credit been raised? In whose hands is it to-day? We on this side know, of course, that, after all, the Commonwealth Bank, in obedience to its masters, is simply issuing national credit in a way which enables the private banks to build up this tremendous superstructure of credit, in respect of which they will take interest toll of the community from now until doomsday.  [Extension of time granted.') 
When I made a reference earlier in my remarks to the price-fixing fraud perpetrated by this Government, I was met by an indignant interjection from an honorable senator opposite. I do not retract one thing that is implied in that statement. Every honorable senator opposite is responsible for this budget, because he is a member of the party which framed it. He knows perfectly well that the cost of every article of human consumption has increased since the declaration of war. 

 Senator - COLLINGS.- That is not true ; the prices of sugar products, because of the sales tax, have increased considerably. 
The honorable senator is side-stepping the question. 
I 'come now to the -unexploited or the inadequately exploited -field of taxation. What action has the Government taken to tax wealthy companies? At 'present they are being" taxed in such a way that the Government is collecting- only a fraction of the-amount 'th'at it -should receive. Do Ministers contend that there is a scintilla of justification for allowing any section of the community to 'make- excess profits in 'war-time? -Every company should be taxed to the extent of 20s. in the £l-on all excess profits attributable to war-time conditions. If the Ministry is not prepared to . go so far as that, it should take at least 75 per cent, of the excess profits. From many sources the : Government is meeting with criticism for its failure to adjust the scales evenly between the Workers and the wealthy  trading concerns. In a recent issue of the  Bulletin  appeared the following com-  ment : - 
The Federal Government will- be shirking its duty if it does not introduce- some form of excess profits tax based on average . earnings before war broke out. 
If the Government did that, equality of sacrifice -might be achieved. The Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  which is a conservative organ, a member of the syndicated press and a consistent advocate of the Government's -policy, jointed this statement - 
The Federal Government will meet with considerable Criticism if, in the bill now before Parliament, it intends to proceed with the proposed tax on all profits of companies over 8 per cent. In its present form the tax -will not reach some of Australia's biggest and wealthiest companies. 
The article added that the Government will not catch the big companies in its net, and what is : more, it is well aware that they -will escape. While declining to tax 'bonus shares, watered 1 stock and secret reserves, the Government has  sprung this  budget &gt;-on the community with an explanation that it represents an attempt to distribute the burden ' fairly over- all sections. Obviously that is not being done. The  West Australian,  of the 1.2th November, printed this  comment - 
By provisions almost staggering in 'their  simplicity  the United Kingdom has defined a standard pre-war period, the 'average profits of which 'are accepted as normal-profits of any undertaking, and everything a.bove that normal rate is claimed by excess profits taxation. The first step in this direction was taken " before the Outbreak of -war, and shortly after the outbreak 00 per- cent, of - any excess profit of companies above the normal pre-war rate was claimed by the Treasury. "Soon after the present Government took office the CO per cent, was raised to- 100 per cent, of the excess profits made by companies engaged directly in war production. 
Every day, the ^financial columns of the newspapers contain details of the profits made -by ' large companies. Although profits -are increasing, it issignificant that 'dividends are not being raised. Surplus moneys are concealed in secret reserves, because the companies dare not reveal to the public the true figures. Tooth and Company Limited, brewers, recently declared a gross profit of nearly £2,000,000, and a net profit of £870,299, which is £14,590 greater than last year's return. After placing £15,000 into reserve, allowing £75,000 for depreciation of its properties, and carrying forward £73,863, the company paid a dividend of 12 per cent. Instead of taxing the worker in receipt of £3 a week, the Government should take a slice of those colossal profits. 
That is one of the companies that the Government proposes to tax. 
The Myer Emporium (South Australia) Limited, in its trading last year, made a net profit of £130,779 compared with £124,007 during the previous year; paid a dividend of 9 per cent, on ordinary capital, and 7 per cent, on " A " and " B " preference shares; allowed £20,000 for depreciation of property; placed £30,000 in general reserve, and carried forward £42,718. "Washington H. Soul Pattinson and Company Limited, " chain " chemists in New South Wales, for the year ended tlie 31st July, 1940, made a profit of £69,000. Last year its profit amounted to £70,047. Last March, it issued bonus shares to the amount of £126,000, allotting two shares for every five held.- -It paid -a dividend of -22.3 per cent, compared with 15 per cent, on its old capital ; the "final- distribution of 13.3 per cent, on the -new capital was equal to 18.6 per cent, on the old capital. If I were to read a list of the shareholders in these .companies, nearly every honorable senator opposite would hang his head in shame, because these enterprises are closely linked with this Parliament. Many honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives are their delegates in this legislature. They know that perfectly well: Last night, I listened to an outburst by  Senator Johnston  concerning the journal published by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Did any honorable senator imagine that he was speaking " off his own bat " ? They would be childishly innocent if they did not know that he was merely singing the tune that "vested newspaper interests demand shall be' sung in this Senate. 
Lest I should be accused of offering only destructive criticism, I propose to make several constructive suggestions for raising revenue. First, the Government might consider the imposition of a fiat rate of 20s. in the £1, on all profits exceeding, say, 5 per cent. Regulations issued under the National Security Act already allow that percentage to firms working on defence contracts. In my opinion, every penny profit over and above that percentage should be seized by the Government. No hardship would be caused to the wealthy companies. . The big shareholders would still be able to run their -motor cars. 
Is that the honorable senator's proposal for raising additional revenue? 
Which one does the. Leader of the Opposition want the Government to adopt? 
I do not under- ' stand the honorable senator's proposal. 
The Government is already taking a bite out of that source. 
That is a wonderful idea! I should like to know how the honorable senator proposes to-.make such . a plan work ! 
The Leader of the Opposition is quite wrong in making that statement. 
My view of the budget is that it is badly planned. If Ave had the necessary power in this chamber, I .should suggest  that the Government be given an opportunity to re-plan it, keeping always in mind the fact that the Opposition, both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, is .just as strong numerically as the Ministry and its supporters. It is &gt; impossible for the Government to continue  in its own sweet way, . always demanding the right to call the tune. If -it does not yield something to the classes -that will suffer under this budget even more in the future than in the past, it must take full responsibility for what will happen in this' country when the people fully appreciate the implications of the present financial proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator James  McLachlan) adjourned. 
I protest strongly against the decision to adjourn the Senate until Wednesday next. Such proposals are too frequently submitted to the Senate. Those of us who come from Western Australia will be compelled to. remain in Canberra until next Wednesday, but senators from New South. (Wales and Victoria will be- able to return to their homes. Western Australian senators are placed in an unfair position, as are those from Queensland,. South Australia and Tasmania. 
Much has been said by honorable senators on various occasions about the difficulty experienced by them in obtaining information from Ministers. I am now anxious to know why I cannot gel the information that I have sought regarding the development of industries in Australia. My question regarding the establishment of the magnesium industry has been completely evaded by the responsible Minister. I asked how much magnesium is required in this- country, and he refused to give me that information. I also inquired as to the price the Government is paying for magnesium imported from abroad, and the Minister- also refused to answer. He evaded  my question as to the source from - which magnesium is being obtained by saying merely that it is produced in  the British Empire. The people of Tasmania are interested in the development of the magnesium industry, since magnesium is a commodity of which Australia is much in need at the present time. It appears that this metal is also urgently required in Great Britain. The exMinister for Commerce  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  received advice" from Great Britain that the authorities there would consider taking the whole of Australia's surplus production of magnesium. I want to know why the Government has, from time to time, definitely refused to give the information sought regarding this matter, and why the local industry has not been encouraged. 
The Government should have given the company which proposes to establish the industry in Tasmania the assistance to which it is justly entitled. At one  stage, the Ministry questioned the advice tendered by the experts of the company, but Ipoint out that the Government has its own experts who could have been called upon to check the advice tendered. The Government also claimed that it asked the company to make a definite offer as to the quality and quantity of magnesium that it could supply, and the date when production would commence. It was stated, in reply to my question, that that offer was not made. As a matter of fact, an offer wasmade to the Government regarding the quality and quantity of the commodity that could be produced and the approximate price that would be required. The Government was asked to accept that information as a basis of negotiation. Several conferences have taken place between representatives of the Government and of the company, but on each occasion the Government has shelved the matter. Apparently, it does not wish to establish this industry in Tasmania. The company has offered to produce magnesium atabout ls. 3d. per lb., whereas the price in Great Britain to-day is about ls.11d. perlb. sterling or about 2s. 41/2d. Australian. Reports show that Great Britain offers an ample market for all magnesium that could be produced in Australia. The production of this commodity in our own country would help "Australia to preserve its overseas credit, and such an opportunity should be eagerly availed of by the Government. The company, despite the rebuffs received from the Government, is still endeavouring to establish the industry, with the assistance of the Government of Tasmania. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will change its attitude to the company. Magnesium is used extensively in the manufacture of armaments, and its production in Australia would not only assist in our finance programme, but would also help to preserve our overseas credits. At the same time, it would assist in absorbing some of the unskilled labourers whom the Government claims to be unable to place in its war industries. The encouragement ofthis company would also stimulate industry in Tasmania, which, up to the present time, has obtained no benefit from the defence programme. Perhaps theGovernment would prefer to see the industry established at Newcastle. 
Yesterday  Senator Fraser,  in commenting on a reply to a question regarding theprice of tea in Canberra, stated that Bushell's tea is sold in other parts of the Commonwealth at 2s. 3d. and 2s. 4d. per lb., but in Canberra the price is 2s. 10d. per lb. He implied also that this tea is sold inWestern Australia at a maximum price of 2s. 4d. per lb. Inquiries by the  Deputy  Prices Commissioner, Perth, to-day disclose that the price of this tea in the metropolitan area of Perth is 2s. Sd. per lb. and in the majority of country districts in Western Australia, 2s.9d..per lb. The price in Canberra is 2s. 9d. per lb. It appears that the information supplied to  Senator Fraser  was not quite correct. 
The branch of the Australian Labour party at Kingaroy broadcasts educational addresses once a month through certain B-class stations, and these programmes have to besubmitted to the censor. I understand that ten clayselapse before information is received intimating that the matter has been passed by him. I am also informed that drafts submitted by other persons are approved within 24 hours of their submission. I ask the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  to explain this differentiation of treatment In some cases, the delay of ten days causes the matter which has been submitted to bc out of date before it is broadcast. 
 in reply -  The Government has been challenged in the House of Representatives and the practice-is that until the issue is decided the Senate shall not proceed with business. In the circumstances I am unable at this stage to reply to the honorable senator's representation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Accompanied by honorable senators, I, this day, waited on the Governor-General and presentedto him the Address-in-Reply to  His  Excellency's Speech on the occasion of the opening of Parliament, agreed to by the Senate on the 27th November, 1940.  His Excellency  was pleased to make the following reply: - 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Air state why the work of establishing an air training school at Southern Cross has been stopped, and where, in Western Australia,  it is  intended that the school shall now be established ? 
The work was stopped because it was considered by the Department of Air, which was responsible for the selection of the site, that Southern Cross was unsuitable for the purpose of an air training centre. The school will be transferred to Geraldton. It is stated by the department that, on account of the dusty conditions at Southern Cross, the engines of aeroplanes would be likely to suffer damage. As the Minister for Air pointed out yesterday, the rainfall at Southern Cross has been abnormally low, which has made the conditions, which are always bad there, very much worse. In view of the report received from the head of the Department of Air, the Government considered that it would be unwise to continue the work at Southern Cross. I understand that some of the work already done may be useful, if a civil aerodrome is required there. 
Last week  Senator Amour  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that strange anomalies in transport charges are operating harshly against soldiers drafted from their own home States to camps in other States, with the result that some soldiers have to pay a large proportion of their accumulated leave pay in rail fares? 
Will the Minister give consideration to the establishment of a uniform scale of fares for soldiers travelling home on leave that they have specially accumulated for this purpose? 
The Minister for the Army has now supplied the following answers: - 
Presumably the anomalies referred to are those relating to rail travel for members of the Forces who have enlisted for overseas service. In some of the States, members are allowed by the State Government concerned free travel once a month when travelling from the camp to their homes, whilst in  other  States liberal concession fares are granted. Another variation arises through the free travel being applicable only to membersof the Forces either camped in, or residents of. the State in which they are travelling.T he effect of this is that members passingthrough a State which intervenes between thecamps and their homes are called upon to pay the concession fares instead of being granted free travel. 
Yes. The desirability of complete uniformity is appreciated, but it must be recognized that the matter is one primarily for decision by the State Governments controlling the railways. 
 by leave  - I support the remarks made by you,  Mr. President,  commending the work of  Mr. Weatherston,  who has severed his official connexion with the Commonwealth Parliament. Several years ago, when the Senate was dispersing for the festive season, and some rather fulsome remarks were made about the services rendered by  the  Hansard  staff in making our speeches move presentable than they might otherwise be, I took exception to some of the things that were said, because I was, perhaps, more or less new to parliamentary work. I have not altogether repented of my sins in that regard, because, although it may be necessary for some of our statements to be revised by the  Hansard  staff, I think that it would be better if the unpleasant truths we utter sometimes were brought before the public in all their unpleasantness. With the passing of the years, however, I have learnt to appreciate the manner in which the  Hansard  reporters perform their onerous duties. The manner in which they get through the mass of work that accumulates in a long sitting, and have proofs of our  speeeches  ready for us next morning, often surprises me. The career of  Mr. Weatherston  has been quite  a  picturesque one. He began in a small way in the field of journalism - a field which has provided opportunities to many gifted persons - and I understand that, when he first filled the editorial chair of one of the newspapers with which he was associated, he was probably the youngest editor in the world. That is an achievement. I do not know whether the stocks of that newspaper have improved or deteriorated since, but it is a matter of great interest that, before reaching the age of 21 years,  Mr. Weatherston  was a newspaper editor. There is another rather picturesque feature of his journalistic career. In his earlier days,  Mr. Weatherston  was employed as a journalist on the gold-fields of Western Australia, where conditions were anything but pleasant and comfortable. From those early beginnings, his experience ripened until, in 1913, he won a position on the Commonwealth  Hansard  staff. I use the word "won" advisedly, because the vacancy was advertised from, one end of Australia to the other.  Mr. Weatherston  really entered an Australia-wide competition, and succeeded in winning it. By gradual promotion, he rose in the parliamentary service, and he leaves us to-day having filled the high and honorable position of chief of the Commonwealth  Hansard  Staff. As I have said before in this chamber when we have been saying kind things about other men who have passed out of the life of the Parliament, those who have rendered meritorious service are entitled to full recognition while they are yet with us to hear what is said. For that reason, I have taken this opportunity to say a few words regarding the life and work of a distinguished public servant. Probably nothing that  Mr. Weatherston  has done in a journalistic capacity has been of greater value than his publication entitled  Commonwealth Hansard Its Establishment and Development.  It is a wonderfully interesting book, and I am glad that facilities were made available for its publication. I am very pleased to have it. 1 am sure that I am voicing the opinion of every honorable senator when I say that I hope  Mr. Weatherston  will enjoy many years of health and happiness in his retirement. 
 by leave  - I join with you,  Mr. President,  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  in expressing appreciation of the splendid work that  Mr. Weatherston  has done, first, as a member, and later as chief, of the parliamentary reporting staff. I endorse all that has been said, especially the wish that  Mr. Weatherston  will enjoy a long and happy period of retirement. 
 by leave  - As a senator from Western Australia, I desire to add  a  few words to what has been said regarding the services of  Mr. Weatherston.  I was in the Western Australian Parliament when  Mr. Weatherston  was a  Hansard  reporter there, and in that capacity he displayed the same efficiency, knowledge and courtesy as he has exhibited so repeatedly here. Every member of the Parliament of Western Australia regretted  Mr.  Weatherston's  promotion to the higher realm of public service under the Commonwealth. He has a host of friends in Western Australia, both inside and outside political circles, and I am sure that they would wish to join with us in wishing him a long, peaceful and well-earned period of retirement. 
Will the Minister for the Interior take steps to expedite the construction of the large military hospital that has been approved for Northam? 
Yes. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce say when the additional 3d. a bushel which is to be paid on wheat delivered to the No. 2 Pool will be paid, and will he take steps to expedite payment ? 
I shall obtain precise information as to the date of payment, and will endeavour to see that it is as early as possible. 
I desire to inform the Senate that a copy of the report of the directors and of the balance-sheet of Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited as at the 30th June, 1940, have been placed on the table of the Library. 
asked the Minis ter for Munitions,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state how many men are employed on munitions work in the Commonwealth ? 
What are the' numbers employed in the various States? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
24,132 males are employed in the munitions factories and annexes under direct governmental control and in the principal establishments engaged on service aircraft construction. 
They are employed in the following States: - 

<graphic href="165332194012042_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above figures do not take into account the many thousands employed throughout the Commonweal till directly or indirectly upon work connected with the production of munitions and aircraft components carried out by firms under contract or sub-contract arrangements, as information under this category would be difficult if not impossible to collate. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state whether the Government has granted or is granting assistance to any companies in connexion with shipbuilding? 
If so, what is the amount that will be made payable to shipbuilders in each State? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers - 1 and 2. The Department of the Navy has advised that approval has been granted for the payment of £9,000 to Walkers Limited, Maryborough, Queensland, and £6,500 to Poole and Steele Proprietary Limited, Sydney, New South Wales, for building berth equipment in connexion with the construction of vessels for naval defence purposes. A request from Evans, Deakin and Company, Brisbane, Queensland, for a grant of £20,000has been received, and is now under consideration. The conditions of the approved grants are that the equipment is to remain the property of the Commonwealth, the shipbuilders are to maintain it, to have the right of user and the option of purchase at a price to bo agreed upon. Insofar as merchant ships arc concerned, provision is made under the Ship Bounty Act 1939 for the payment of a bounty on the construction in Australia of iron and steel ships exceeding 100 but not exceeding 1,500 gross tons. So far, no company has indicated to the Government its intention to build ships subject to bounty under the act. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Who issued instructions for raids on the homes of some of the members of the Launceston Trades Hall Council? 
Will the Attorney-General's Department arrange for any' books and papers taken to be returned ; if not, will the department supplya list of those books and papers retained by the police? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answers :  - 
Searches for subversive literature were made throughout the Commonwealth under the authority of the National Security (Subversive Associations) Regulations, which empowered such searches to be made by, or with the authority of, members of the Police Force of the Commonwealth or ofa State, not under  the rank of Sergeant. Instructions were, however, given that, in the case of office bearers of trade unions, the search should not extend to books, documents and papers relating to these trade unions. 
As soon as books removed from premises are examined for the purpose of ascertaining whether they fall within the scope of the regulations or not, the unobjectionable works are returned. If the honorable senator furnishes the names of the members of the Launceston Trades and Labour Council to whom he refers, arrangements will be made for the return to thorn of any unobjectionable books removed from their premises if there are any such which have not already been returned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate a copy of the attestation paper signed by trainees called up under the compulsory national service training scheme? 
The Minister for the Army has made four copies available. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that statements were made by  Mr. L.  A. Robb, New South Wales  President  of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia and official secretary to the Governor of New South Wales, in the returned soldiers' conference at Canberra last week, which appear to have challenged our democratic parliamentary system? 
If so, does the Prime Minister intend to take action concerning the same? 
Does the Government, as reported, propose to arm a body of returned soldiers, known as the Home Defence Corps, while the league is still led by Mr.Robb? 
Is it a fact that, for similar statements to those made by  Mr. Robb,  such formerly prominent English conservatives as Moseley, Ramsay and Canning are now imprisoned in England? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
Certain statements made by  Mr. L.  A. Robb were reported in the press. 
In view of the fact that steps have been initiated in other quarters to investigate the matter no action is being taken by Commonwealth authorities at the present juncture. 
No decision has been made to arm the Returned Soldiers' League Volunteer Defence Corps. 
The Government has no official information in its possession to enable a correct comparison to be drawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What quantity of Australian wheat and flour was sold for shipment overseas during the month of October, 1940? 
What countries were the purchasers and what prices were obtained? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  -  1 and 2. Quantity of wheat and flour sold during October for shipment overseas, with details of purchasers :  - 
Wheat. 
Greece. 3,733,000 bushels; Japan, 1,866,000 bushels; China, 748,000 bushels; Palestine, 410,000 bushels; New Zealand,  45,500 bushels;  Egypt, 45,000 bushels; India, 3,700 bushels; total quantity, 5,851,200 bushels. The price for bulk wheat was 3s. 9¼d. per bushel f.o.b. and for bagged wheat from  4s.  l¾d. to  4s.  3d. per bushel f.o.b. 44,900 short tons were purchased by China at the equivalent of £ A. 9 4s. per short ton. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the Marconi School of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited a Commonwealth technical school? 
If so, does this connote an abandonment by the Commonwealth Government of its former policy of leaving technical education in each State to the State government concerned? 
Will the Government give financial aid to State governments for the assistance of State-controlled technical schools? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  -  1 and 2. The Marconi School of Wireless is not a Commonwealth technical school, but is registered as a firm in New South Wales and is owned by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia ) Limited, under whose control it has operated since 1913. 
The Commonwealth Government cannot accept financial responsibility for normal educational requirements, which it considers is a matter entirely for the States. Certain financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth has been made available to the States' to provide for the technical training of youths who missed their opportunity during the depression, and to meet increased expenditure on technical education necessitated by the war effort. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate why dependants of members of the Australian Imperial Force have to wait long periods for allowances? 
What is the amount allowed for food to Australian Imperial Force men travelling to Northam camp from Kalgoorlie? 
Is it a fact that the cost of breakfast on that train is 3s.? 
Will the Minister take steps to remove these hardships and have a more liberal policy administered? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Where there is reasonable proof of dependence, the allowance is paid on the date of commencing with the first payment of allotment after the soldier's enlistment. Investigation must be made in many cases to verify the claim of dependency, consequently some period must elapse before payment can be made. 
Members of. the Australian Imperial Force while on leave receive a subsistence allowance of 2s.5d. per day, and this rate is the same whether they are at home or travelling on the train. 
The charge is 3s.6d., but breakfast on the dining car is optional. Refreshments are also available at refreshment stations  en route  and in any case Northam is reached before 7 a.m. 
The charge for meals on Western Australian railways is a State matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that about90 employers in Victoria have refused to re-engage national service trainees after undergoing three months' camp training? 
If so, why were these employers not prosecuted under the National Security Regulations? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. Approximately 42 complaints have been received against employers. 
All cases were thoroughly investigated and in many cases it was found that the grounds were insufficient to justify a prosecution. In all other cases the employees requested that no further action should be taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Amy,  upon notice - 
What are the conditions for sick pay leave for garrison battalions and otherhome service units in Australia? 
What provision is made for their dependants should the above soldiers fall sick for any lengthy period? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Conditions of sick leave for garrison battalions and other home service units are as follows: - 
Ex-members of the first Australian Imperial Force performing fulltime duty and garrison battalion personnel are granted sick leave on full pay for any period during which they are incapacitated by injury or illness. Full pay and dependants' allowance is continued until such time as they are returned to duty or discharged as  medically unfit. 
Members of the Citizen Military 
Forces (other than first Australian Imperial Force) performing fulltime duty are granted sick leave on thesame conditions as apply to the Permanent Forces; that is to say - 
Fourteen (14) days on full pay; 
Ten (10) days on half pay; 
Seven (7) days on one-third pay for each twelve months' service. Half of this amount may be taken during the first six months' service and credits may be accumulated for future years. When a member has exhausted these amounts, he may be granted sick leave without pay. Dependants' allowance is considered as part of a member's pay when  applying these conditions. 
No additional provisions are made for their dependants. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government given consideration to placing all Australian National Emergency Services under a Federal authority, in order that an Australia-wide policy may be laid down in the event of air raids on this country ? 
Would the Government give consideration to the appointment of a Minister to coordinate these services? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : -  ] mid 2. At a conference between Commonwealth and State Ministers in March, 1939, a common policy to be followed by the Commonwealth and State Governments in planning for air raids precautions was agreed n]  ion.  As a result of the conference a Director of Civilian Defence and State Co-operation was appointed in the Department of Defence to co-ordinate planning and this officer has been in active collaboration with the State Government authorities in the completion of their air raid precautions plans. 
The general policy in relation to air raids planning is at present under review by the Commonwealth Government. 
.- I move- ' 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Supply Acts Nos. 1 and 2 provided funds to carry on the services of the Government until  approximately  the 30th November, 1940. The present measure  provides  for a period of one month from that date when it is expected that the Appropriation Bill will have been passed. The Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  in his budget speech outlined the financial proposals for the current year. The intention is to ask the Senate to consider  the  'budget and to pass the necessary appropriation hill before Parliament rises. In the meantime further supply is  required  to carry on essential services. 
This bill makes provision for an amount of £2,896,000 to meet expenditure under the following main heads : - 

<graphic href="165332194012042_6_1.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts included in the bill are based on the rates of expenditure approved in the appropriation for 1939-40, except in the case of Defence, in respect of which it is necessary to make increased provision to meet war conditions. No provision has been made in the bill under the head " Treasurer's Advance " as it is anticipated that the amount of £5,000,000 already granted this year will foe adequate. 
[3.35 . - I draw the attention of the Senate to clause (2) of regulation 20 of the National Security (War Service Moratorium) Regulations, made on the 10th September, 1940, which provides that any member of the forces, parent of a member or female dependant of a member may require the owner of a dwelling-house which is vacant, or is about to become vacant, to let the dwellinghouse to him or her at a reasonable rental, and the owner shall, unless he has reasonable cause for refusing so to do, let the dwelling-house accordingly. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator will not be in order in discussing that subject at this stage. He could have raised it on the first reading of this bill. 
I rose to discuss the matter on the first reading. 
Honorable senators are entitled to raise any subject on the first reading of a Supply Bill. I put the question very deliberately, but no honorable senator rose to speak. The honorable senator will have an opportunity to discuss the matter when the budget is under consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill provides for raising £2,000,000 by loan for expenditure on postal works. An additional amount of £1,176,000 is to be provided from revenue, making a total of £3,176,000 for postal works. During the financial year 1939-40 the expenditure on such works was £3,177,000. An amount of £20,000 is provided for the expenses incurred in raising the loan, and that amount covers such items as stationery, advertising, &amp;c, but such expenses will be kept at a minimum. Honorable senators will agree that expenditure on postal works is necessary in order to provide adequate facilities for Australia's growing population, and to enable the Postal Department to keep abreast of modern technical developments. This expenditure will provide assets which will more than repay interest and sinking fund charges, and for that reason it may be regarded as a desirable form of loan expenditure. Having regard to our huge war commitments, £3,176,000 is the maximum sum which can be made available in 1940-41. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
The schedule includes an item of £29,000 for "national broadcasting service ". Will the Minister  (Senator McBride)  supply the committee with details of that item?. 
That sum is to be expended on technical broadcasting equipment. I could give further details if the honorable senator so desired, but I can assure him that the item is not directly associated with the work of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Yes, it is for expenditure on technical broadcasting equipment. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I take this opportunity to make a few comments upon the budget of 1940-41 which undoubtedly will inflict great hardship on all sections of the community. The taxation proposals contained in the budget are likely to defeat the object which the Government has in view. There is a limit to the taxes which can be borne by the community without causing deflation and chaos in industry. At first glance the taxation proposals foreshadowed are staggering, and are even more so when examined closely. Compared with the year 1939-40 the proposed Commonwealth taxes represent an increase of £6.9  per capita,  and bring the total of Commonwealth taxes to approximately £19  per capita.  In 1938-39, the amount was as low as £10 13s.  per capita,  so that in two years, Commonwealth taxation  per capita  has been almost doubled. I am afraid that in future, many persons, particularly among the lower paid sections, will have to go without the necessaries of life. Men with large families will have to pay a large proportion of the indirect taxes imposed. Probably the Minister  (Senator McBride)  will say that many necessaries of life are exempt from the sales tax, but I would remind him that that tax is imposed on almost every article of clothing worn by men, women and children. For instance a man with a wife and six children has to pay sales tax on at least eight pairs of boots and socks. 
I understood that boots had now been included. 
I ask the Minister to name any article of wearing apparel that a family requires, apart from hoots, on which sales tax is not imposed. A man with six children is called upon to pay sales tax on the articles required for a family of eight, and the strain on his budget, great as it is at present, will be considerably increased during the ensuing year. 
Australiahas a population of only 7,000,000, and it will not be suggested that we can continue to hold this country unless the population is increased. The best way to add to the population is to increase the birth-rate, but we shall not encourage the people to do that if sales tax is imposed on every commodity required to establish a new home. 
I am not dealing with that matter. The tax has been increased time after time, and it imposes a heavy burden upon any young couple entering matrimony. In many homes, parents have taken out insurance policies, either for themselves or their children, and they have kept up the payments of the premiums for many years ; but under the present proposals of the Government the cash required for these payments will now be extracted from them in the form of increased taxes, and, in many cases, the extra burden imposed will result in the forfeiture of the policies. 
Members of the middle classes have a limited amount of income. They may use their money by engaging in farming pursuits, or by building homes for themselves ; but the increased taxes now to be imposed will place such a burden on them. that they will be unable to carry out the financial programme previously contemplated by them. Does the average primary producer save any money? If he has a balance of £600 or £700 in one year he may barely manage to balance his budget in the following year. 
But the primary producer cannot be expected to cope with a heavy increase of taxes not contemplated by him, and of which he has received no notice. As the law stands to-day, income taxes must be paid within a limited number of days, and, in the event of a tax payer failing to pay them, he is charged an extra 10 per cent. If he cannot satisfy the claims of the department, a policeman calls at his home, and, eventually, legal action is taken to enforce payment of the tax. 
He may have a small property, the sale of which would result in the loss of his means of livelihood. 
Yes, I can always back up my statements with proof. 1 know a person who, when a tax was demanded of him, wrote to the Commissioner of Taxes and asked for an extension of time in which to pay. In reply, he received a demand for payment of the tax within seven days, and, failing payment, he was threatened with prosecution. 
Yes. 
The honorable senator need have no doubt on the matter. I happen to be the individual to whom I am referring. When I received the demand from the department for payment, I did not have the money, and therefore I asked for an extension of time. Being allowed only seven days in which to pay the tax, I was forced to sell something thatI actually needed. Otherwise, I could not have met the demand of the department. If the Government survives the present crisis and its budget proposals are implemented, I hope that taxpayers will be treated more leniently in the future than they have been in the past, when their financial position has made it impossible for them to pay the taxes demanded within the period allowed. The Government talks about the cutting down of profits, but there is no greater profiteer than a government that takes advantage of an unfortunate taxpayer who has not the necessary money with which to pay his taxes. 
Indirect taxes fall heavily upon the working classes, and particularly upon the invalid and old-age pensioners. I understand that, in order to appease the pensioners, the Government proposes to raise the old-age pension by1s. a week, but, in view of its taxation proposals, what it will give with one hand it will take away with the other. Its action is not in conformity with the policy it placed before the people at the last elections, when it said that equality of sacrifice was necessary in the prosecution of the war. As soon as the budget proposals were presented, the people generally realized that they involved inequality, rather than equality, of sacrifice. 
The Government contemplates borrowing about £93,000,000 in the coming year for the prosecution of the war. I do not wish it to be thought for a moment that I, or any of my colleagues on this side of the chamber, object to any expenditure required for that purpose. Although I agree that every penny raised will be needed, and probably much more will soon be required, if the people are to be called upon to pay interest on borrowed money, the Government is heading this country for chaos. 
The method adopted by the Government merely defers the burden that the people will ultimately be called upon to bear. If the money is to be raisedby means of taxes, let it be done now, but that is not the method I prefer. There are other ways of obtaining the money required for the defence of Australia.  Senator Spicer,  like his colleagues, refuses even to investigate those methods, or to take advice from the hand-picked royal commission, appointed by his own party, that investigated the monetary and banking systems at a cost of £20,000. The policy which the Government is pursuing will crucify future generations. 
The honorable senator's interjection reminds me that there are many selfish people in this country. Their motto is "I am all right; to the devil with you ". The honorable senator is all right to-day, and therefore he is not concerned as to what his children, or his grandchildren, may have to suffer in the future because of the misdeeds of the Government of to-day. 
We on this side are concerned about the future of the Commonwealth. Australia is a country about the size of Europe, but, instead of containing a population of approximately 200,000,000 people, its population is only about 7,000,000. That small population has the responsibility of defending and developing a huge continent, and to that end it is producing and exporting various products required by the Old Country, and, in addition, making armaments and munitions for use in various parts of the Empire. The 200,000,000 people of Europe are in a better position to find money for war or other purposes than are the 7,000,000 inhabitants of Australia. It can truly be said that the people of Australia will find difficulty in meeting even the interest on the loans which will have to be raised for the defence of this country. As I have said, there are other ways of obtaining the money. They have been explained time after time by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and other honorable senators on this side. 
Not many years ago Germany was practically a bankrupt nation. On many occasions Hitler has told the German people that when he was elected he had nothing but what he stood up in, and that Germany had no foreign credit and no gold; but he rejoiced that the nation had been willing to produce and had, in fact, produced so much that it had become strong. 
I do not deny that some loans were raised, but most of Hitler's financial programme was carried out under a system of internal credit. If Germany has become strong by the use of the nation's credit - so strong indeed that the flower of the world's manhood will be lost before Germany is defeated - we must adopt similar methods. 
The Government has not hesitated to introduce compulsion in other spheres. Under the national security regulations some men are compelled to undergo military training, whilst others must remain in their present employment or carry out whatever duties are assigned to them. I do not say anything against that, but I ask the Minister, who agrees to such compulsory measures, whether he will also agree to compel the wealthy section of the community to make available for the use of the nation some of their wealth that now lies idle. This section has more to lose from a German victory than has any other section. 
I do not know that any wealth is lying idle, but I do know that the Government? is compelling these people to contribute some of their wealth to the nation. 
Has not the honorable senator heard of the Government's shipbuilding programme? 
The development of other industries in addition to the magnesium industry, is long overdue. I refer particularly to the shale oil industry, especially in Tasmania, where there are deposits of shale which, on analysis, have shown a high percentage of crude oil, the production of which, is vital to the propulsion of mechanized army units. I have heard it said that those deposits are tied up by the Labour Government of Tasmania, but that is not true. The industry there could have been developed long before the need for petrol rationing ever arose. It is ludicrous to say that this Government, or any other Commonwealth government did not know that war was imminent, or that production of liquid fuel is necessary in Australian economy. Successive Commonwealth governments for years have talked about the extraction of oil from shale and coal; but they stopped at talk and did not lift one finger to do anything until the shells began to burst. The Tasmanian shale deposits could bc developed even at this late stage to obviate the need for petrol rationing, which is likely to throw commerce into chaos. Those deposits are not tied up by the State Government. They are open for development by any company, or by the Commonwealth Government itself, provided a guarantee is given that the fields will be developed. The State Government, however, is not ready to lease the field to a major oil company which would tie it up for ever. Apparently the allegation that the State Government will not allow the development of the Tasmanian shale had its genesis in that Government's refusal a couple of years ago to give a lease to a company which was acting for one of the major oil companies and which purposed the stifling of any development on the field. When the proposition was put before the State Government it refused to have anything to do with it, its attitude being "A lease will be granted only on condition that you produce oil or forfeit. ". That offer stands to-day and I commend the State Government for not allowing the great oil companies to take charge of the area and prevent its development. Either the Commonwealth Government has lacked foresight or the influence of the major oil companies has been responsible for its inaction. 
While this war is being waged we expect the best effort from every individual in the community, and we deprecate any action that will stop the wheels of industry or have any other detrimental effect on the war effort. The Prime Minister does not believe in direct action ; neither do we. The right honorable gentleman has often criticized trade unions for resorting to direct action in order to have grievances redressed. But I blame the right honorable gentleman himself, as well as his colleagues, for any dislocation of industry that has occurred, because the Ministry has failed in its duty to provide the necessary machinery to have grievances investigated and settled as they arise. A snowball rolled from the top of a mountain achieves huge dimensions before it reaches the bottom. Industrial disputes are analagous and, if they are not attended to at once, their seriousness grows with every day of delay. 
Although the Prime Minister professes to be so bitterly opposed to direct action, he is one of the greatest direct  actionists  that we have in Australia. I make that statement because he went to the people pleading for a national government. Then, after he had done all that pleading, a budget vastly different from that which we should have presented had we been returned to power, was brought before Parliament. The election left the Government and the Opposition sharing equally the confidence of the people. Yet the right honorable gentleman said : " If I cannot get my own way and cannot get my own budget through as presented, regardless of what you say, although you represent half the people, I will resort to direct action and go back to the country ". 
Subversive activities occupy a good deal of our attention. The Government depends for advice as to the best methods of defending this country upon experts, yet in Melbourne, Sydney, or any other capital city, oil storage tanks, mounted on stilts and painted white, present a most wonderful target. With the naked eye they are visible for many miles, and I should say that from aircraft an observer with a good pair of field glasses would be able to see them from a hundred miles away. Those tanks-contain the life blood of this country. Yet they are erected, and are still being erected, in such a way as to provide a conspicuous target for the enemy. If that policy is being applied on the advice of the Government's experts the records of those experts should be scrutinized, regardless of what position they hold. The Government should use its own eyes and commonsense. 
Also under the heading of " subversive activities " we find the advocacy by the  president  of the New South Wales Branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers' Imperial League of Australia,  Mr. L.  A. Robb, who has high social standing, of a dictatorship in this country. That gentleman, at the returned sailors and soldiers' congress at Canberra, advocated the very thing that we are all called upon to make sacrifices in order to overthrow! If it were not for dictatorships we would not be at war.  Mr. Robb  made a disloyal statement when he said that it was time that we had a dictatorship under  Mr. Menzies.  Yet this Government, which has all the powers of the National Security Act at its command, refuses not only to take any action against that gentleman, but also to investigate his remarks. 
Another matter which I wish to raise deals with the treatment of members of garrison battalions who fall sick or are incapacitated through accidents in the course of their duties. In reply to a question which I asked on this matter, the Minister for the Interior  (Senator 
Poll) explained that a big proportion of the members of garrison battalions who are not exAustralian Imperial Force men, and who do not come up to the Australian Imperial Force medical standard, are classified as class 2 on enlistment. These men, who have volunteered to serve in our defence forces for the duration of the war and twelve months thereafter, are often called upon to serve in districts where the most trying climatic conditions prevail. In many cases they have relinquished good jobs in civil life. Nevertheless, should their services be dispensed with by the military authorities as the result of sickness, or accident, during their period of service, they find themselves practically penniless. I know of districts in certain parts of Tasmania where sleet and snow fall for eight months of the year, and where climatic conditions generally are so severe that they would test the health of men who are perfectly fit physically. These men are employed on guard duties for two hours on with four hours off. These conditions apply in snow districts such as Tarraleah, "Waddamana, Shannon and Myena. Should any of these men take sick, and they could quite easily contract pneumonia in such a climate, they are allowed full pay for seven days, half-pay for five days, and one-third pay for three and a half days. In order to qualify for this rate of allowances, they must serve at least six months in a. garrison battalion. The point I make is that should any of this class of men contract sickness from which they fail to recover within a fortnight they are practically obliged to starve. They are thrown upon the State as paupers. The defence authorities also refuse to make any provision for their families. The Government should be ashamed of this treatment of men who volunteer to defend this country at some of its most vulnerable points. I appeal to the Government to reconsider its attitude on this matter, and to do the fair thing by these men when they fall sick, or are incapacitated through an accident met with in the course of their military duties. Ex-members of the Australian Imperial Force serving with garrison battalions are entitled to allowances covering the whole of their period of sickness or incapacitation. I contend that as the class 2 men are performing services equally valuable, from a defence point of view, they should be treated on the same basis as are their ex-Australian Imperial Force comrades. Should they become ill, all members of garrison battalions, irrespective of their classification, should be paid allowances until such time as they make a complete recovery, and then they should be reengaged in their former duties. 
.- Every one agrees that all must bear a like share in paying what might be termed Australia's premium for safety. In order to meet our huge war bill, people must make sacrifices and forgo peacetime luxuries. The sacrifices, which the budget calls upon the community to make, are small compared with those of our sailors, soldiers and airmen who are risking their lives for us. The budget has already brought home to many easygoing citizens the stern fact that Australia is at war. We are now involved in a long and costly war. The proposed new taxation is a challenge to our patriotism, and a test of the loyalty which the nation has been proclaiming since war was declared fifteen months ago. For the vast majority the amounts to be sacrificed in taxes will be the first real taxes they have yet paid. During the week-end I have spoken to many such people on this subject. Philosophically, the answer of one trade unionist was, " Ah, well, it is better to be poor under the Union Jack than a slave under the Swastika ". That is the attitude, in a nutshell, of most people. 
The average Australian citizen is not alarmed by the budget proposals. They were expected. Many are surprised that the impost is not heavier. At the same time they definitely demand that the money be expended to the best advantage in our war effort. Are we sure that the avenues of expenditure have been so well policed that undue profits are not made by contractors and others engaged in the production of war equipment? In that respect the man in the street has grave doubts. The Government has the power to check profiteering, but the measures taken in that direction are not sufficiently  swift and drastic. The taxpayer demands the closest scrutiny of defence expenditure. Last week I asked a question in this chamber regarding the cost of a number of cartridge gauging machines. I did so at the request of two of my friends who are qualified to make an estimate, and quick to detect any signs of profiteering. The departmental reply did not give a definite indication of close supervision in the course of manufacture. How can an accountant sitting in an office keep a close eye on mounting costs ? "We need to police the job from start to finish. Many citizens would willingly give their services voluntarily as official inspectors. The more prying the eyes of supervision of government contracts, the less will be the chances of profiteering. This applies to big industrial establishments as well as to small firms. The man in the street wants to know whether a big firm which sublets a government contract to smaller firms also receives 4 per cent, on production costs? The Minister for Supply and Development might enlighten the Senate on that point. 
The opinion is general that a drastic curtailment of the activities of the Department of Information, or its abolition, is overdue. The re-hashing of stale news and comments on the war by so-called experts must cost the department thousands of pounds. I do not read one-half of its pamphlets, and neither does the average citizen. That is an avenue where economy could be practised. 
I have already drawn attention to the possibility that the actual fighting units of our Home Defence Army, on mobilization, will prove insufficient in numbers, and, later, short of trained reinforcements. A drastic overhaul of the whole of our man-power is necessary. The revised list of reserved occupations recently issued only touches the fringe of the subject. I venture the opinion that three out of five males of military age, 18 to 45 years, are exempt either because they are engaged in the production of war equipment, or included in the various categories of reserved occupations. In addition, a very considerable number of active service  eligibles  are engaged in administrative and other " back area " duties. Unless a drastic overhaul be made the Home Defence Army, and the Aus tralian Imperial Force overseas, will suffer numerically. Great Britain is contemplating training unfit personnel for work in the factories and workshops, and proposes to make more use of ex-service men in order that the British Army may be strengthened by fit and eligible men now engaged in certain reserved occupations. Lord Winterton, in foreshadowing this in the House of Lords recently, prefaced his remarks by saying - 
The main enemy strength the Empire has yet to meet is the land forces of Germany. It is no use blinking at the fact that the hardest and  stiffest  fighting has yet to come. Mechanization means many more men employed in industry. In spite of that the British Army must not want for recruits. 
A well-known British military writer, endorsing Lord Winter ton's advocacy for a stronger army, said - 
The Royal Navy no matter how magnificent cannot invade Germany. The Royal Air Force may destroy, but it cannot hold ground. Artillery and tanks may help but they are useless without infantry. The war will be won when the glint of the British and Dominion bayonets in the  Unter  der Linden marks the end of savagery in Europe, with freedom and liberty for all. 
I agree entirely with that view. It was the Greek infantrymen who hurled the Italians out of Greece, and now look like driving them out of Albania also. A Dunkirk in the Adriatic may have widespread repercussions. The authorities are over-emphasizing medical fitness. The highest standard is necessary for the actual fighting units, but a modified standard should meet requirements for the personnel of units far removed from active operations. The question of final medical examinations for the Australian Imperial Force calls for the closest attention of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender).  I cite the case of a young man who, after a medical test, was accepted on the 7th May last, and later posted to the 2/14th Battalion. He became a sergeant. Just prior to his unit leaving for overseas, he had a second test and was discharged on the 10th October after 159 days' service. The second test gave the same result as the first test on the 5th May. At the second examination he was informed that if he did not hear from the medical authorities within a few days, he could consider himself fit for active service. 
Having been drafted to the reception camp at Caulfield race-course, this young man naturally assumed that he was justified in settling his private affairs. After 159 days' service he was surprised to be told that he had to be discharged. Fortunately, he was able to resume his former civil occupation a week later. What would have been the predicament of any other young man not so fortunately placed ?  His  chances of reemployment would have been ruined. I can give to the Minister this young man's name and number so that the case can be inquired into. 
I take this opportunity to say how much growers of fruit for canning purposes appreciate the Government's efforts in persuading the British Government to acquire the surplus of the 1940 pack. Three months ago the outlook was anything but attractive. Recently about 1,000,000 cases of canned fruit, the whole of this year's surplus, was bought, and now awaits shipping space. The persistence of the Department of Commerce and the assistance of the High Commissioner in London has resulted in this very satisfactory deal. In addition to the 1,000,000 cases, a large quantity of which represents orders for the British troops in the Middle East, this year the department has supplied demands from the Near East. Fruit-growers in the Goulburn Valley, Victoria, where, at Shepparton, the largest fruit-canning establishment in the southern hemisphere is located, are naturally pleased, but they contend, and rightly so, that Australian canned fruits should have priority in the United Kingdom market. Shipping space has had to be taken into account in this year's negotiations, but when space is no longer a consideration, will the British Government still continue to purchase four-fifths of its requirements from California? I am afraid that- it will, unless the Commonwealth Government strongly urges the claims of this unit of the British Empire. The United Kingdom should agree to take at least 2,000,000 cases annually. Were such a market assured, it would be possible to settle on good fruit-growing land hundreds of our men upon discharge from the Australian Imperial Force. I trust that the Government will plan for such an increase of export from the industry. Soldiers who are fighting for the Empire, should at least be offered a livelihood. Britain can offer to them no more suitable "reward than to purchase the products of their labour. Australia, and not California, should supply the United Kingdom with the bulk of its -requirements of canned fruits, not only now, but also after the war. Meanwhile, the disposal of the surplus 1941 pack is the immediate problem. The recent statement by the British Minister for Food is most disturbing. The ban on canned fruits entering the United Kingdom for the next twelve months may not affect the big orders for the fighting services in the Middle East and in the Near East. Canned fruit is a food, and pot a luxury. 
Before concluding I should like to make a plea on behalf of returned soldier artisans temporarily employed in the Postmaster-General's Department in Victoria. Approximately 100 of these men in the various sections of the department have completed seven or eight years' continuous service, and, I understand, their efficiency is favorably reported on. These men are approaching 51 years of age, after which no temporary official can receive permanent status. Recently the Government has raised a number of returned soldier linemen and mechanics in the Postmaster-General's Department from temporary to permanent rank. Liberal treatment of such artisans would be a reward for service to their country in the Great War, and also for service in the Postmaster-General's Department. There is much apprehension among these men that they will be discharged on reaching 51 years of age in order to make way for artisans in the Australian Imperial Force who may seek employment upon demobilization. 
I also support  Senator Aylett's  plea for sick pay for garrison men. The honorable senator put his argument clearly. Instances similar to that which he cited have come before my notice, and I urge the Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Senator Foll)  to look carefully into this matter to see whether something can be done in the direction indicated by the honorable senator. 
It is time that the people of Australia were aware of the fact that the budget of the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  is a most extraordinary and unbusinesslike document. Indeed, it is a dishonest document. It is merely a statement of revenue and expenditure and does not take our assets into account. 
I intend to give reasons for my statement. 
I did not hear  Senator Darcey  use the expression to which exception has been taken by  Senator Gibson;  but if it were used it is disorderly and I ask that it be withdrawn. 
The irony of this humiliating spectacle is heightened by the fact that sovereignty over the issue of money is the undisputed prerogative of the central government. That is nothing new. It was said nearly 100 years ago, and it applies with equal force to-day. The greatest of all Americans, Abraham Lincoln, once said something concerning money that is never quoted in orthodox newspapers in America or in any other country. None has ever charged that great emancipator with being what we term a radical, but his idea of the relation of money to humanity was, from the reactionary point of view, exceedingly revolutionary. In one of his famous speeches he said - 
Money is the creature of the law, and creation of the original issue of money should bc maintained as an exclusive monopoly of the national government. 
I have made a similar statement over and over again in this chamber. The statesman continued - 
The monetary needs of increasing numbers of our people advancing towards higher standards of living can, and should, be met by the government. Such needs can be served by issuing national currency and credit through the operation of a national banking system. 
We have a national bank - the Commonwealth Bank - which is the only one of its kind in the world. Lincoln further said - 
The circulation of n. medium of exchange issued and backed by the government can bc properly regulated and redundancy of issue avoided by withdrawing from circulation such amounts as may be necessary, by taxation and in other ways. The Government, possessing the power to create and issue currency and credit as money, and enjoying the right to withdraw both currency and credit from circulation by means of taxation and otherwise, need not, and should not, borrow capital at interest, as the means of financing government work and public enterprises. The government should create, issue and circulate all the currency and credit needed to satisfy the spending power of consumers. 
Honorable senators will recollect that I have consistently advocated such a system to finance the war. I continue the extract from Lincoln's speech - 
The privilege of creating and issuing money is not only the supreme prerogative of government, but it is government's greatest creative opportunity. By the adoption of these principles, the financing of all public enterprises, the maintenance of stable government and ordered progress and the conduct of tlie treasury, will become matters of practical administration. The people can and will be furnished with a currency as safe as their own government. 
If these principles are understood, those who talk of inflation and restricted credit have no case at all. The passage concludes - 
Money will cease to be the master and become the servant of humanity. Democracy will rise superior to the money power. 
At present democracy is completely under the power of money, and has been so for many years. 
I have given copies of Australia's National Balance Sheet to honorable senators and to members of the House of Representatives. That balance-sheet supports my contention that the Treasurer's budget is incorrect, because it disregards our national assets, which are quite capable of meeting the requirements of the war. Australia's assets and liabilities are set out in the balancesheet that I have circulated, a footnote to which reads - it will be seen that by a proper use  oi  our national credit we could pay all  out  government expenses, meet our interest bill, spend fl52.000.000 on charity and relief, and still have £1,000,000,000 with which to finance the war. 
An honorable senator recently elected to this chamber asked how it could be done, and 1 had the pleasure of placing in his letter box a book entitled  Victory Without Debt. 
This is the first time in the history of federation that members of the Common wealth Parliament have had a copy of Australia's national balance-sheet placed in their hands. It is compiled from the Australian  Year-Booh  by a man whose reputation is held very highly in Australian financial circles, and who occupies a high position with the South Australian Government. When a remark was made to me by a Government supporter, I replied, " If you can find a figure in the statement which you can challenge from an accountancy point of view, I shall give £50 to any charity that you like to name ". 
Australia's national balance-sheet assesses the value of Australian citizens at £4,018,000,000, and the total assets at £5,880,000,000 making a grand total of £9.S9S,000,000. The nation's liabilities' are assessed at £1,802,000,000 leaving a credit balance of £S,036,000,000. The reason for fixing the value of Australian citizens at the high figure of £4,01S,000,000, or £578 per head of the population, is that each man is regarded as a productive unit, and, therefore, as a great national asset. Some ask " How can  Ave  use the national credit?" The answer is that it can be used, and should be used right up to the capacity of our citizens to produce. 
Still better for the community had it departed from orthodox methods of finance. 
Treasury-bills and debentures to the amount of £7S,000,000 are now held against the Government. A treasury-bill is an undated I 0 U. Even the measure  passed  by the Senate this afternoon shows how the Government is empowered to borrow. When inscribed stock is sold, nobody can ascertain who has bought it unless the permission of the buyer is obtained ; but the issue of treasury-bills is the biggest racket of all. When a private bank takes these bills it has the right to draw bank note;, which go into the bank's cash reserves, and the bank is able to lend from eight to ten times the amount of such reserves. Thus the Government provides the capital whereby the private banks can lend money back to it at  3i  per cent. 
I regard the Senate as the political High Court of Australia. If measures received from the House of Representatives are considered to be in the interests of the people of this country, we pass them, and they become the law of the land; but I contend that the action now being taken will lead to financial ruin. We are told that the Government proposes to use central hank credit. I maintain that, strictly speaking, Australia has no central bank. A central bank operates in the interests of the private banking system, but the Commonwealth Bank is the very antithesis of a central bank. Treasury-bills are a great " throwin" for the private banks. 
From time to time  Senator Dein  has made reference to the breaking by  Mr. Lang  of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales. That bank was operating in a magnificent building that cost over £1,000,000. If its directors had been working in the interests of the people, they would not have given to the Commonwealth Bank long-term government securities to the value of £29,000,000. They would have obtained treasury-hills, which could have been easily turned into notes. When the politicians and the private banks put their heads together and decided to break the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales, it was doing the biggest business of the kind in Australia.  Mr. Lang  should have dismissed the whole of the directors and the management. The Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems declared that the Commonwealth Bank should go to the assistance of any bank in order to save it from bankruptcy, yet the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales was forced to close its doors. 
The people desire to know how this war could be financed without further taxation. I point out once again that it could be done by using the national credit, "which now stands at £1,000,000,000. The present Government is not carrying out the wishes of the people, because, as I have said previously, resolutions by parties which support the Government have been passed in four of the States, urging that the Commonwealth Bank, should utilize the national credit in order to finance the cost of the war. "When I presented to this Parliament a petition signed .by thousands of electors expressing views on similar lines, the Government took no heed of the request. Why does the Government decline even to discuss the findings of the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems? That 'body was appointed by a United Australia party government, but its recommendations have been ignored. Hundreds of public meetings have been held throughout Australia, and resolutions in favour of utilizing the credit of the nation have been forwarded to the Prime Minister, yet he describes advocates of the use of the national credit as monetary cranks. The greatest financial authorities in the world support the views that I have advocated. I have never suggested that interest-free money could be raised to an unlimited extent. Abraham Lincoln financed the American civil war with money created by him. He said that he had two enemies - one was in the south, towards which he was advancing, and the other was behind him. That was the money power, which he regarded as the greater enemy. Before the present wai" began, the Commonwealth was in debt to the amount of £1,300,000,000 although it has a population of only 7,000,000. That debt was double the national debt of the British Empire in 1914. We were told that there was no danger in investing money in loans raised during the last war, 'but I am afraid that many of those who take part in the present war will also have to share the financial burden resulting from it. The private banks lend against their cash deposits. 
.- I wish to direct the attention of the Government to the danger to Australia from raiders which are not merely alleged to be operating off certain parts of the Australian coast, but are known to be there. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes)  said recently in an interview that a patrol of Australian waters was being maintained, and that everything possible was being done to protect Austraiian waters, but notwithstanding that declaration, he has admitted, according to this morning's newspapers, that nineteen mines were swept up in Bass Strait in one week, and that in the previous week six mines were found. I desire to know what precautions were taken against the laying of those mines by raiders. As mines have been laid in Bass Strait, other mines have probably been laid elsewhere in Australian waters. As I believe that criticism is not helpful unless accompanied .by some constructive suggestion, I recently made it my business to interview a captain of a deep sea vessel. He told me what we all know, namely, that Australia has lost S0,000 tons of shipping during the last couple of months, and that included in those losses were vessels equipped to carry frozen meat, butter, cheese and other perishable commodities. If that rate of destruction be continued - and in the absence of information as to the adequacy of the measures to prevent it, I see no reason why it should not continue! - our efforts to supply food to the people of .Great Britain will be seriously hampered, if not rendered useless. The captain told me that a raider which is equipped with diesel engines can remain at sea for from four to five months without having to call at any port to replenish supplies. I am alarmed to know from this captain that a mine-sweeper followed his ship and three other vessels out of Sydney Harbour on the 27th November. That the mine-sweeper did not precede those vessels is an indication of the way in which this important department is administered. If the report be true, an explanation should be demanded of those responsible. If they are not sufficiently awake to let the Government know that patrol vessels are not properly equipped to perform the service required of them, or that the personnel is not sufficient to carry out its duties, something ought to be done in the matter. In its anxiety to help Britishers overseas, the Government appears to have neglected Britishers in Australia. The Minister for the Air  (Mr. McEwen)  admitted recently that for eighteen days prior to the sinking of two vessels in Bass Strait 'by enemy mines, no air patrol of the Strait had been made. It is much worse when it is realized that these raiders are not near the coast, and can intercept our ships, because w.e have not any planes with a range sufficient  to enable them to search for them. 
They may he as far as 3,000 or 4,000 miles out to sea. The alarming factor is the length of time which they can spend at sea. Ships are leaving Australia as isolated units, whereas they should be in convoy - fast ships in fast convoys and slow ships in slow convoys. They should certainly not leave without protection. The Minister may say " "Where would you get an escort from ? ". If, as I understand, all the vessels of the Australian Navy are in the Mediterranean or Far Eastern waters, sufficient units should be brought back to do the convoy work in the interests, not only of this country, but also of Great Britain itself. The people of Great Britain have once again been put on " iron " rations - " iron " rations at a time when the men, women and children there were never in greater need of nourishment. The export of our produce is important to us. but its safe delivery to Britain is of overwhelming importance to the people there. 
It may have been considered, but my information is that nothing has been done. I shall give the facts to the Government and they can be checked by the records of the Harbour Trust. On the 27th November four ships left harbour and the minesweeper went out some hours afterwards. If that -be so, some one was guilty of bungling. 
The expert tells me that that is not enough, seeing that in 
Bass Strait, in spite of the fact that minesweepers were available, an enemy craft entered and laid 31 mines without the Department of the Navy knowing anything about it. 
That is no excuse, and it does not provide an escape for the falsity of the Government's claim that this country is being adequately protected. One of the important jobs of this country in this war is to keep open the sea routes between here and the Old Country, If our ships are all away it  i3  the Government's  duty  to bring some of them hack to undertake this vital work. "We do not ask that the Government should disclose all the information it possesses, but we do seek an assurance that these matters will have attention. What I have disclosed warrants the ' most sweeping overhaul of the Naval Department. As a layman I was not satisfied with it; my dissatisfaction has increased since I have been fortified by facts given to me by a man of experience. I have other facts which I shall submit to the Minister for the Navy for detailed discussion by his officers. 
The Empire's shortage of shipping is likely to be intensified. It is officially announced that the losses have totalled 67,000 tons a week, and that in one week they totalled 120,000 tons. Something might be done to offset the loss of overseas shipping by transferring vessels from the Australian coastal trade and using the railways to carry the freight formerly carried by the coastal boats. In the last war England had for escort purposes not only the vessels of its own navy, but also the services of the fleets of Italy, Japan and France. On this occasion the Empire has  to  rely on its own resources. Shipbuilding, therefore, is a subject which must receive serious consideration. The work could he spread all around the coast - at Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne and every other main port. Some weeks ago I accompanied the honorable member for Corio  (Mr. Dedman)  to Queenscliff, a watering-place in Port Phillip, to witness the launching of a small vessel. It was 74 feet long and was in every way an excellent job. It had been built by seven local men for the fishing industry in Hobsons Bay, one of the most treacherous bays in Australia. When the work was started only one of those men was skilled in ship construction; but under his tuition the six unskilled men attained such proficiency as to turn out one of the neatest craft that I have seen. That emphasizes the futility of the argument that this country does not possess a sufficient number of skilled artisans to engage in shipbuilding on a scale which would, to a great degree, help to offset the shipping losses that we must inevitably incur. Sufficient skilled hands could be combed from industry in Australia. It would not be of great consequence if. they had to be transferred from other war industries, because, in spite of the fact that the Government is doing an excellent job in producing munitions and aircraft, the labour market is filled with unemployed. At the Melbourne Federal . Members Rooms I can show any Minister, who is sufficiently curious, a long list of men who are capable of doing good work and who are not able to find it, even at this time when no hands should be idle.  Senator Cameron  could do the same. 
Exactly. We must pull together on this. I welcome the appointment of a Minister for Labour and National Service. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie),  a business man, would be a suitable man to go through the labour bureaux of Australia to see what men are registered and to ascertain their specific value as war-workers. Some of the unemployed have lost heart, and it would be a good thing to say to them, " Here is a new class of work for which we shall train you and pay you a decent wage while you are being trained ". 
I too thought that it was, but it has not been applied to that degree so far. 
Every one realizes that money has to he found to fight the war. The method of finding that money will be debated on both sides of this chamber.  Senator Darcey  has dwelt again on the release of credits. That is in the Labour platform. Loans are also in the Labour platform, but not loans for the purpose of paying for the defence of this country. Tine Labour platform definitely provides for some .taxation, heavy taxation if necessary. Certainly, we should not make the taxable minimum so low as to render the poorest-paid section liable for the payment of income tax. So much rubbish has been uttered by university professors, price fixers and alleged industrial experts, as to what is a sufficient wage for a family to live on, that to-day the basic wage throughout Australia averages only £4 4s. a week. Things have come to a shocking pass in the trade union movement when we find industrial leaders agreeable  to any political party, be it the Labour party or the parties supporting the Government, accepting the notion that a. living wage is purely a matter of arithmetic. The Government proposes not only to tax the poorer-paid section, but also to increase the rate of sales tax, thus placing an additional burden on the shoulders of that section. At the last election the Labour party undertook to relieve the wage-earner of the burden of the sales tax. The decision of the electors, however, was inconclusive, the Government and the Opposition parties being returned in almost equal numerical strength. We also undertook, if elected to office, to increase the soldiers' pay. It is shocking that our soldiers, the majority of whom have given up jobs in which they earned on an average £5 a week, should be paid only 5s. a day, out of which in the case of married men there is an allowance of 3s. a day for their wives. The most the wife of a soldier can receive is £3 7s. a week. Recently, I was interviewed hy two soldiers' wives who reside in my district. They informed me 01 at they paid £1 10s. a week rent, which means that they have little more than £1 10s, a week on which to provide for themselves and their children while their husbands are serving in our fighting forces overseas. It is outrageous to suggest that a rate of 5s. a day to a man who enlists in any arm of the service is sufficient to enable him to provide for his wife and family during his absence. 
I said that £1 15s. a week is the rate for a single soldier. 
I said that the maximum is about £3 7s. a week, assuming that the soldier has a wife and a couple of children. That rate is outrageous. Had the Labour party been elected to office, it would have increased the soldiers' rate of pay. 
The most nauseating feature of the budget is the Government's proposal to raise £5,000,000 by taxing the incomes of the poorest-paid section of the community. 
The Minister is out of date. The Labour party stands for the adequate defence of Australia, and at its last convention it declared definitely that Australian troops should be utilized in the defence of those parts of the Empire nearest to this country. Had our party been returned to office we should have despatched Australian soldiers immediately to those portions of the Empire in the Pacific zone which are threatened with invasion. The Minister is fully aware of that fact. However, at the moment I am not discussing the merits of military service at home or overseas. I have already said that in respect of naval defence the Government is not doing its job. However, I have repeatedly admitted that in respect of munitions manufacture and defence organization generally it is doing excellent work. I make that admission in all fairness to the Government, because I have made it my /business to inspect personally those aspects of our war effort. 
At a time like the present the Government could be expected to give proper recognition to social services. Whilst we all agree upon the necessity to make a full war effort, we must also have regard to the needs of the community as a whole. The Labour party is cognisant of the inherent needs of the people. It is a little refreshing to hear a man of such political courage and business experience as the honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Coles)  stressing the importance of initiating a liberal child endowment scheme, as he did in the House of Representatives yesterday. He pointed out that while our social conditions are allowed to remain as they are at present our married women are justified in their fear of having children. The Labour party looks forward to the day when the mothers of the nation will be prepared to rear families in the knowledge that they will be able to take care of their little ones. At the last election the Labour party advocated a scheme of widows' pensions. Such a scheme would involve at the most an expenditure of £3,000,000. I should like to hear any honorable senator opposite tell me what is wrong with such a scheme. Is it not preferable to maintaining the present conditions under which a woman with a family, whom death deprives of the bread-winner, is forced to go and work in order to provide for her children? The aim of the Labour party is to apply, on a nation-wide basis, the widows' pensions scheme now operating in New South Wales. That scheme excels anything of its kind to be found elsewhere in the Empire or even in Soviet Russia, a country which is over-boomed, and about whose achievements so much flapdoodle is uttered. Only by adopting such a scheme as now operatesin New South Wales can we save our country from the effects of race suicide. We should do everything to encourage the peopling of Australia with native-born persons. The Government, however, has made no provision in the budget for social services of this kind. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Several days ago  Senator Armstrong  asked - 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the decision made by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to dispense with the services of Jim Davidson's Dance Band? Are we justified in assuming that the economy drive against  Mr. Davidson  is to offset the loss of £37,000. incurred by the Australian Broadcasting Commission journal in the first seven months of its publication? Will the Minister see that the Australian Broadcasting Commission dance band is retained at full strength in view of its great popular appeal? 
I take this opportunity to reply to the honorable senator as follows :  - 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has had two dance bands for some time, one being Jim Davidson's. The latter band was originally engaged on 5th October, 1936, for a two years' contract with an option for a further six months, which was exercised. At the expiration of that contract the engagement was continued on a three-monthly basis. The engagement has thus been for a much longer period than was originally intended, and the Commission states that by it? decision, which is not related to the operations of the  A. B.C. Weekly,  it will be in a position to give engagements to other dance bands not now regularly broadcast. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to regulation 20 of the National Security (War Service Moratorium) Regulations passed on the 10th September last. It, reads - 
Any member of the Forces, parent of a member or female dependant of a member may, if he or she thinks fit, require the owner of a dwelling house to which this regulation applies, which is vacant, or is about to become vacant, to let the dwelling house to him or her at a reasonable rental, and the owner shall, unless he has reasonable cause for refusing so to do, let the dwelling house accordingly. 
That regulation applies not only in all of the States, but also in the Australian Capital Territory. Recently a lady, who resides in Canberra, applied to the Department of the Interior for the tenancy of one of a number of houses being constructed in a suburb of this city. She made personal application on the 26th October to  Mr. Chapman,  an officer of the department. He asked her what right she had to makesuch an application, and told her that if this concession were made to her, wives of soldiers would flock to Canberra from all of the States. She received the following letter, dated the 26th November, from the Secretary of the Department of the Interior,  Mr. Carrodus  :  - 
Dear Madam, 
I duly received your letter concerning your desire to obtain the tenancy of a house in Canberra. 
The houses now under construction, some of which arenearing completion, are being erected for the specific purpose of accommodating Government employees. 
In view of the large number of waiting applicants, who come within this category, it is regretted that it is not possible to allot you a tenancy at present, but your request will receive careful consideration should a suitable opportunity present itself at a later date. 
It will be noted that whilst the department stated that it was not able to let  a  house  to  this lady  it  might find it possible to do so at a later date. On the 29th November, the lady wrote the following letter to  Mr. Carrodus:  - 
 Senator Amour  is quite correct in saying that he brought this matter under my notice some time ago. The case presents a difficult problem. I am sure that it was not the intention of any of the officers of my department to be discourteous to  Mrs. Baxter,  and if she considers that she has not been treated fairly in that respect, I shall arrange that the matter be taken up with the officer concerned. 
The regulation in question has created a very difficult problem for the Department of the Interior. It is the policy of my department to provide homes for public servants who come to Canberra to work in government departments. Our building programme is not as extensive as we desire, and the department is unable to .provide houses in Canberra for all who wish to reside here. We have a waiting list of hundreds of public servants, many of whom, with their families, are living under most unsuitable conditions in hotels and guest houses. These people should have homes provided for them.  Senator Amour  understands the department's difficulty, because he suggested that in this case the application be granted and the regulations amended so that others may not take advantage of the position which exists. That is not an unreasonable request, and I shall give it the fullest consideration. I admit quite frankly that I am opposed to this regulation covering all such cases, because it would he impossible for the department to grant all the applications that would be made. I feel sorry for the lady in question, because she came here in good faith believing that she was entitled to a home.  Senator Amour  was incorrect in his reference to the legal position. I have sought the opinion of the Solicitor- ' Genera] by whom I have been advised in this matter, that the houses which are being built in Canberra by the Commonwealth Government for Commonwealth public servants, do not come within the scope of this regulation. In  Mrs. Baxter's  case it may be possible to find some private dwelling, or, in view of the special circumstances, a Government home may be provided for her. Sympathetic as the Government may be towards the dependants of soldiers, it cannot see its way clear to allow this regulation to operate in the Australian Capital Territory to the detriment of public servants who are transferred to Canberra, and who, in view of the present housing shortage, are now living in hotels and boarding-houses. Were the regulation to embrace cases such as that mentioned, the department's building programme would be quite inadequate. It is not now the practice of the department to provide homes for every one, as was the case some time ago. Probably. I was partly responsible for the policy that preference must be given to public servants. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that its servants in Canberra are  able to live under such conditions aswill enable efficient service to be rendered. It is not the intention of the department to he unduly harsh in its treatment of  Mrs. Baxter,  who finds it necessary to live here for the reason which  Senator Amour  mentioned. In view of the special circumstances which have arisen, I shall do my best in the matter, but I repeat that I am opposed to this regulation being applied generally to all houses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
On the 27th November,  Senator Amour  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, the following questions,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that some  months  ago a Sydney baking firm named Abbco Limited was fined in the vicinity  of  £1,400  for  short-weight bread delivered under an Army contract? 
If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether that fine has been paid; if not, why ' not? 
Does this firm still hold the Army contract? 
The Minister for the Army has furnished the following replies: - 
The Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited was fined £1,438 for an offence under the State law of New South Wales of baking underweight loaves of bread which were intended for delivery to the Army. 
This fine was not in respect of actual shortweight deliveries to the Army. 
The Army contract for bread provides  for  weighing bread in bulk, and payment is only made for actual weight received. 
The collection of a line imposed for  an  offence against State laws is the concern of the State authority. 
No. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  Mrs. D.  W. Fowler a letter expressing thanks for, and appreciation of, the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed .by the Senate on the occasion of the death of the Honorable J. M. Fowler. 
I have to announce that, consequent upon the retirement of  Mr. J.  S. Weatherston,  Mr. G.  H. Romans has been appointed Principal Parliamentary Reporter, and  Mr. A.  P. Adams Acting Second Reporter. 
In view of the growing opinion that petrol rationing has not given the results that were expected by the Government, will the Leader  of  the Senate state whether the Government will now consider a more active exploitation of the oil-shale deposits throughout Australia, with a view to the development of such deposits as those at Baerami, in New .South Wales, and particularly that at Murrurundi? I have been informed by the Minister for Mines in New South Wales that the latter is the richest oilproducing shale deposit in Australia. 
I am supported by the records of the New South Wales Department of Mines. Will the Government initiate a policy for the development of these deposits under strict supervision, in order to bring about the muchdesired increase of the supply of petrol? 
The matters referred to have received the active consideration of the Government for some time. I shall bring the specific question of the honorable senator under the notice of the Minister for Supply and Development, and a reply will be furnished to him on Tuesday next. 
Can the Leader of the Senate give any indication when the present sittings of the Parliament will be concluded? I have asked this question owing to the difficulty of obtaining transport at this time of the year. 
The House of Representatives will be asked to assemble on Monday next, and it is hoped that the business now awaiting consideration will be concluded by next Thursday or Friday. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What Ls the cost of the war to Australia, up to date? 
How much of such sum has been raised by way of revenue, loans, bank credit and free gifts? 
How much is the Government committed to pay as interest annually on the loans involved? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
Inquiries are being made, and  a  reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Did the Government in any way alter the petrol allowances after the Minister for Commerce was re-admitted to the Ministry? 
If so, what is the specific nature of  such  alterations? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions is as follows : -  1 and 2. No. The scheme is to be reviewed early in the new year. 
asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister explain the appointment and suggested duties of the special officers who are to be appointed to interview applicants for employment in the Munitions Department? 
The special officers referred to are clerical officers with technical knowledge of the labour requirements of the munition factories, annexes, and contractors engaged on munition work. Their duties are to ascertain and record  in  detail the qualifications of applicants for employment, and their suitability for the various types of work for which employees are required, to attend to the requisitions for labour assistance from factories, and to allot suitable applicants for selection by the respective managements. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has an agreement beenarrived at between the States and the Commonwealth relative to the marketing of the apple and pear crop for the coming fruit season? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The Commonwealth Government has decided upona plan for marketing apples and pears during 1941. Agreement with the States was not necessary, but there were several consultations with the States and the industry, and the Government understands that the plan adopted is widely approved. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice- 
What was the cost of the military camp established at Dapto - (a) as to land; (ft) equipment; (c) all other costs? 
Why was it abandoned? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  -  1. (a) Compensation and hiring costs, £155; (b) and (c) The total cost of establishing the camp at Dapto and for certain demolitions on leaving the site was £15,604. All the buildings and plant were removed and used at Walgrove and elsewhere. The loss of equipment irrecoverable is approximately £250. 
The cost of labour for initial erection and removal amounts to approximately £8,000. 
The camp site was chosen to exercise troops in a special role allocated to them in this area, and this having been completed the site was abandoned for the three following reasons: - (i) The restricted manoeuvre area available for general training; (ii) unsuitability as a wet weather camp site, being, like most of the south coast, subject to winter flooding; (iii) the establishment of garrison battalion units in Port Kembla area allowed for militia to bewithdrawn and regrouped having regard to their employment in the present mobilization plan. 
My approach to the budget proposals is, I trust, that of a realist who recognizes that, whether we like it or not, we are involved in a war, and that we must either fight and win or submit to defeat and all that defeat means. The Labour movement says that we must fight, and that the whole of our resources must be used to the best advantage. In my judgment, the resources at our disposal are not being used, and are not intended to be used, to the best advantage. We on this side do not object in the slightest degree to the proposed expenditure of approximately £274,000,000 this year, of which about £200,000,000 will represent war expenditure; but we do object to the way in which it is proposed to raise most of that money. We hear a good deal about equality of sacrifice, but the budget before us is not based on that most desirable principle. According to the Melbourne  Herald  of the 23rd November, the London  Times  of the previous day commented on the Australian budget in the following terms:- 
The city's first reaction to the Australian budget is that it is a good one. Increased demands on small wage-earners is described as an honest attempt to tackle the problem of consumption from the right end, namely, spending power. This is in contrast to the British budget, which left untouched a large proportion of extra wages and incomes generated by exchequer disbursements. 
Apparently, the London  Times  considers that the Commonwealth Government is making an honest attempt to tackle the  problem by taxing the purchasing capacity of small wage-earners, but it makes no reference to big incomes, which are greatly in excess of the reasonable requirements of those who enjoy them. In this country there are men like  Mr. Harold  Clapp, and others, who are paid salaries ranging from £1,000 to £4,000 a year - rates which I suggest are greatly in excess of their requirements. Inferentially,  The Times  has said that the Commonwealth Government, in taxing small wage-earners, has- set a good example which could well be followed by other governments. I object to money being raised by means of taxes on small wageearners. I object also to the enormous amount to be expended in paying interest. These proposals will not make the sacrifice equal ; on the contrary, the inequality of the sacrifice will be intensified. If the Government were really sincere in its desire for equality of sacrifice, it would take steps to bring down to £500 the incomes of all persons who now receive more than that amount, before it imposed any taxes on persons in receipt of less than £500 a year. Such action would not mean that persons with large incomes would have to forgo one necessary meal, of be deprived of adequate food, clothing, and shelter, or any of the reasonable amenities of life. It would, however, mean that persons in receipt of less than £500 a. year would be in a better position than they will be if effect be given to the Government's proposals. It is sheer humbug and cant to talk about equality of sacrifice in circumstances which permit a privileged few to receive more than they actually need in a time of grave national emergency. 
The Government's proposal to raise £80,000,000 by the flotation of loans means that generations yet unborn will be committed to economic servitude in order to pay hundreds of thousands of pounds weekly, or millions of pounds each year, to persons who obviously will not have contributed towards the  waT  effort of this generation. That money will be paid not to the soldiers who will fight to win this war, but to the sons and daughters of investors who will hold bonds entitling them to extract heavy tribute from their fellows. Provided that the war ends within the life of this generation, its cost, in terms of man-power and materials, will be paid in full by this generation; but future generations will continue to pay tribute to people who did not contribute one unit of man-power or 1 oz. of material towards the war effort. If that money were used to assist the present generation to fight and work in order to maintain our possessions and win  the  war, it would be expended to far better advantage than in paying interest in future years to the sons and daughters of wealthy persons who, in this generation, invest their money in government loans. If it could be shown that the raising of loans were necessary in order to finance the war, I should be prepared  to  admit the necessity; but the need for these loans has not been, and cannot be. demonstrated. If an institution is in a position to lend money it is also in a position to pay taxes. If people with wealth were taxed as the Government proposes to tax wage-earners, there would be no need whatever to pay interest  to  investors during their lifetime and to their sons and daughters after their decease. 
 Many of these institutions are trustee organizations which hold the life savings of people with small incomes. 
That is not only unnecessary, but also unjust, immoral, inhuman and unworthy of the best traditions of this country. 
Taxes form the very basis and machinery of government, and the people must be taxed, but I object to the methods proposed to be adopted by the Government, particularly in this war-time effort. In doing so I would say with the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  that the. whole of the new and increased taxes will be paid by the working class. According toHansard of the 23rd May, 1939, the Treasurer said, while debating the Supply and Development Bill in the House of Representatives - 
I do not agree with methods of excess taxation, because I recognize - 1 speak with some  experience  - that all taxation is paid by the workers and the producers, who cannot pass it on. 
That statement was made by a qualified man. The method that the Government proposes to adopt is a method by which the tax will be passed on by the people of wealth, like the Prime Minister, who said that his income tax would be trebled. 
Results of public companies which had issued accounts in 1940 have been very favorable and profits have been maintained. 
Old-established companies with large reserves will not in many cases be called upon to pay very much war-time profits tax even if earnings and dividends on the subscribed capital are more than 8 per cent. . . . the main point is that companies should be able to maintain profits at a satisfactory level, and, even after providing for the taxation outlined in the budget, their power to maintain dividends, at least at current rates, should not be any less. 
The very highest authority, in my opinion, in Australia of the financial interests to which most of the members of the Government are committed, says that companies will he able to carry on regardless of the extent to which they are taxed. They will be able to do that mainly because of their ability to pass on the tax to those who are least able to pay. If any further doubt exists as to the position in that regard, I propose to q&gt;uote from an analysis of capital investments in public companies registered or operating in Australia and New Zealand in 1939. This analysis is by Brian Fitzpatrick, M.A., Research Fellow at the University of Melbourne, whose many works on economics have received favorable comment. Following is his short summary of the financial history of Australia since the war began : - 
I submit herewith five tables of statistics relating to public companies registered or operating in Australia and New Zealand in 1939. They  are  industrial companies, excluding banking, insurance, trustee and investment, building society and other miscellaneous financial companies. The results of some research, embodied in the tables, go to show - 
1 ) that a substantial capital outlay has been made through 772 industrial companies; 
that the great majority of 057 of those companies, i.e., those the balance-sheets of which T have been able to' inspect, made substantial net profits in 1939, amounting on the average of all companies including 43 which showed a loss on the year's operations, to 11.04 per cent., being the percentage of net profits on paid-up capital, or 12.97 per cent., being the percentage of net profits on cashpaid capital, i.e., excluding bonus capital issued free to shareholders out of accumulated profits; (3) that the accumulation of capital through reserved profits since 1885 in the case of some companies and since 1914 in the case of many, has been considerable and fairly consistent, denoting a high average return on capital invested; (4) that between three-fifths and two-thirds of the total capital invested in Australian' public companies is invested in 91 companies, all being companies with share- holders' funds exceeding £1,000,000; (5) that speaking generally the larger companies show greater net profits than the smaller; (6) that the practice of making large bonus issues is virtually confined to the highlycapitalized companies and to smaller companies associated with them; (7) that 00 companies closely associated by shareholdings in each other and by interlocking directorates. 42 individuals holding 145 directorships out of 260 in 45 of the companies, represent 28.6% of all shareholders' funds invested in Australian public companies; (8) That the uniform .practice of these associated companies, hardly ever departed from in their history, has been to increase their capital only by bonus, par or premium issues to their own shareholders or by issues to companies absorbed or brought into association; (9) that my result showing C57 companies in 1939 making net profits amounting to an average of 11.04% on their paid up capital or 12.97% on their cash-paid capital is consistent with the result reached by P. V. McGee (paper in the  Economic Record,  Melbourne, November, 1926), viz., that the average net profits of 466 industrial companies in 1925-26 amounted to 12.31% on paid up capital and 14% on cash-paid capital; and (.10) that these results are all consistent with the results published by the Commonwealth Bank. 
Thus we have it on the highest Australian financial authorities that, in spite of the war and the alleged increases of taxes on big incomes and profits, the budget proposals will not involve the slightest sacrifice on the part of wealthy companies. That is not merely the opinion of the Opposition, or myself, but the opinion of the high authorities which I have just cited. In the light of such evidence, which makes it clear that the whole of the increases of taxes will be passed on to the working class, my objection to the budget proposals is based on legitimate grounds. My objection is strengthened when I realize that the efficiency of this nation in the production of wealth, and of our fighting forces, depends mainly on those who are in receipt of low wages. Before the Government does anything to lower still further the living standard of that section of the community, it should reduce the living standard of the wealthy sections. When a ship is wrecked and its complement takes to the :boats, no distinction is made between first and second class passengers and members of the crew. The pampered people who were accommodated on the top deck, and enjoyed all the luxuries provided, find that they  have a great deal more in common with, the members of the crew than they hitherto thought possible. They have to depend on the crew to save them. Are we to await a similar state of affairs before this Government, in prosecuting its war effort, will realize its obligations to the less fortunate sections of the community? If that be the case, it will he even worse for all of us. However, if the Government is prepared to collaborate with the Labour party in its approach to our present problems, we shall achieve a maximum war effort, not merely on paper, but in reality. But the Government must first abandon many of its budget proposals. So unjust do the taxation proposals appear to me, that I can only regard them as daylight robbery. In that connexion, I refer particularly to the increase of the sales tax, by which means the Government plans to raise an additional £5,000,000. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator is not in order in describing any proposal of the Government as " daylight robbery ". 
Are we to await disaster before we realize the necessity for taking such action? If bombs were being dropped in Melbourne and Sydney as regularly as they are being dropped in England, unnecessary legislatures would cease to function. The Government needs money. It has been said that this budget is unprecedented. Again and again, the Government has emphasized the necessity for economy. Yet we find that, whilst the wage-earners are to be taxed unjustly, both directly and indirectly, unnecessary instrumentalities with which are associated costly ceremonies are to continue. I find it almost impossible to believe that the Government is really sincere when it refuses to reduce present overhead expenses of government. 
Labour's view on the budget proposals must not be misunderstood. "We have no objection to the raising of all of the money which the Government requires in order to prosecute our war effort to the fullest degree. We know that we are limited in that respect only to the degree to which we can provide man-power and produce material. However, the Labour party has the strongest objection to the expenditure of money unless it is expended to the best advantage. We strongly object to the payment of enormous sums in interest to a section of the community which can well afford to do without them. Under such a system, members of the working classes as yet unborn will be committed to economic servitude and slavery. We offer the strongest objection to the expenditure of money on unnecessarily high salaries, particularly when it could he used to better advantage in making a maximum war effort. Should the war continue, involving huge loss of life and material wealth, and the struggle become more acute, the Government will be driven to do the things which I now suggest that it should do. I advise the -Government to take a long-range view of the situation, and to provide, as adequately as is possible, for those upon whom it depends to work in munition factories and to serve in the fighting forces. If such provision be made, the Government will justify its existence; but if it is not, the Government is merely awaiting a catastrophe, and leaving the way open for another government to do the work that it has failed to do. 
I am pleased to learn that during the last few days the Government has changed its stupid adamant attitude towards the budget, and is now endeavouring, to a degree, to meet the realities of the situation. By so doing it has condescended to accede to the demands of more than one-half of the people of Australia. I have no desire to conduct a post mortem upon the last general elections, but  1  understand that nearly  120,000  more electors voted for the Labour candidates than for Government candidates. It is the desire of the Australian Labour party, through its representatives in this Parliament, to co-operate with the Government in the successful prosecution of the war, and at. the same time to maintain, so far as possible, the living standard of the people. 
Honorable senators opposite will at least admit that onehalf of the Australian electors supported the Labour party. 
The Prime Minister has acted wisely in " climbing down " in order to avoid a political crisis, but he did so only when he realized that members of the Labour party were earnest in their desire to ensure that the people received justice even though Australia be at war. 
Honorable senators opposite obtain their information through the press, and that is why they are so ill-informed. The members of the Labour party discussed the issues involved in an endeavour to benefit those whom they represent; but the Tory leader was adamant; later, he relented. The representatives of the Labour party then said that, for the present, they would accept, what was offered to the workers. I  understand that under the arrangements made the workers will benefit by an amount of approximately £4,500,000. 
It will be seen therefore that the Labour party has been successful in forcing the Government to recognize that fair play should be extended to the wives and dependants of soldiers and to invalid and old-age pensioners. In the matter of income tax the statutory exemption has been raised from £150 to £200; but that is not exactly what we desire, because the single basic wage-earner, who is already taxed in various ways by the State governments, will still be sub.ject to Commonwealth income taxation. Concessions were granted by the Prime Minister despite the fact that he said that the Labour party's proposals constituted a direct challenge to the Government. It is also right that the Government should assist single men who have wholly dependent mothers because there is an exemption in respect of dependent sisters and brothers. It is also gratifying to know that soldiers' wives with children will receive an additional 7s. a week. I am sure that thousands of soldiers' wives throughout Australia will be pleased that the additional allowance is to be provided. 
In common with other members of the party to which I belong I am disappointed to find that the Government proposes to increase the invalid and old-age pension, bv only ls. a week. 
Provision has been made for an increase of 6d. a week on the basis mentioned. That will be satisfactory to pensioners, and will help them to realize that the people of this country are still anxious to help them even in wartime. 
That is so; but it should be realized that the quantity of goods which can be purchased to-day with £1 is not so great as that which could have been purchased a few years ago when the pension was 17s. 6d. a week. The pensioners live on what may be described as a miserable ration - a paltry £1 a week. Surely the purchasing power of the pen sion should at least be equal to that which it was ten years ago. I have been informed by an ex-Prime Minister that today 22s. is required to purchase that which could be purchased in 1931 for 17s. 6d. If  Senator Herbert  Hays will examine the figures more closely he will find that the position is as I have stated. In any case the Government should have acceded to the wishes of more than one-half of the electors and raised the pension to at least £1 2s. 6d. a week. No doubt many pensioners will be grateful for the increased amount. When considering this subject we should not confine our attention solely to figures, because, as I have said, on many occasions, pensioners live on goods that are produced in Australia in abundance, with the exception perhaps of tea and coffee. Practically every commodity required can be produced in Australia in large quantities, and, should the war continue, and exports be restricted, we should have even larger quantities for our own use. Honorable senators opposite, who view everything through finance-tinged spectacles, believe that further concessions cannot be made to pensioners because the additional cost would amount to several million pounds. In times of stress, we should look behind the financial veil and reckon in terms of services and commodities. The standard of living of pensioners can be increased without affecting the successful prosecution of the gigantic struggle against Hitler, Mussolini and the scurvy crowd in Europe with which they are associated. An intelligent government should 'be able to devise a method whereby sufficient of the necessaries of life may be -made available in the homes of the aged in order to lighten their burdens in their declining years, especially in a country where such necessaries are produced in abundance. 
At last the Government has decided to get down off its high horse, because it proposes to appoint a committee to deal with matters relating to the taxation of companies. The budget proposals in this respect have been condemned by the press throughout Australia. I do not regard myself as an authority on company taxation. I do not hold any shares in companies, and I am not interested in their activities other than  the degree to which, they provide employment. It appears, however, that the large companies will not be compelled to contribute the amount they should,, while some of the smaller companies will he penalized. 
An inquiry is also to be conducted into the issue and control of Commonwealth bank credit.  Senator Darcey,  who has spent almost a lifetime in studying finance, and who, for the last three years, has been giving to the Senate the benefit of his extensive learning, should be a member of the committee. Unfortunately some of the honorable senator's seeds of wisdom have fallen on barren ground, and the Government is still adhering to the obsolete orthodox methods of finance. According to the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  no departure is to be made from the orthodox method of finance. He said - 
Credit expansion must be used 'to the full, up to the limits of safety; but this is not a time when wo can look with safety to any considerable further expansion of credit. 
Exactly; the security of this country is more important than the protection of the interests of the financial magnates. The Treasurer continued - 
Expenditure in Australia by the Government, on war or anything else, must come in some way from the pockets of the people. 

 Senator Cameron has pointed out that the physical cost of the war will be met here and now by the people, whose services will be given in various ways. They may be rendered on the field of battle, or in the factories in .which munitions are made. Real payment for the war will be made by the men and women who are participating in the national effort to maintain our democratic system. 
I am prepared to allow the Government to take all that. I have. When the present member for Wakefield  (Mr. Duncan-Hughes),  who is rich, was a member of the Senate, he took exception to professional politicians. I said on that occasion that I was prepared to accept amateur status in this Parliament, provided that my family and I were fed and clothed, that my children were educated, and that my debts were paid. In giving my all to the Government I should not be parting with a great deal, because, after allowing for my debts, the property which is supposed to be mine, would, if sold at the current market rate, leave me with .a debit balance of £300. Speaking seriously, however, all Labour men and Tories should be prepared to make their contribution to the war effort. 
The Treasurer, referring to money expended by the Government, stated in his budget speech : - 
It may come by loans, where a man willingly gives up spending power in the present in return for spending power in the future. It may come by a system of taxation designed to take from each man according to his ability to pay. lt may come by expansion of credit whereby spending power is taken from the community by rising prices. When business is slipping back and prices tending to fall, expansion of credit may only help to keep prices stable. 
I shall have the full support of  Senator Darcey  when I say that that statement shows clearly the stone-age mentality  of  those who favour orthodox finance. Recent developments in Australia and throughout the world have evidently made no impression upon the Treasurer. It is not true to say that an expansion of credit necessarily involves increases of commodity prices.- 
He stated distinctly that this expenditure may be made possible by an expansion of credit whereby spending power is taken from the community by rising prices. 
I have quoted the Treasurer's words, but I deny their accuracy. 
I admit that, during the war, prices may rise on account of economic conditions. If Australia had to import raw materials to the value  of  millions  of  pounds, if insurance and freight rates increased, and if the cost of imports rose rapidly, there would be good economic reasons for increased prices; but an expansion of credit by the Commonwealth Bank, or even by the private banks, should  not inevitably cause an increase of prices. If the general costs of operating a tramways system showed no increase, there would be no good reason for an increase of tram fares, following upon an expansion of credit. Nor should the prices of clothing go up, if the manufacturing costs remained unchanged. Credit is expanded by the banks on the basis of the communal efforts of the people, and that expansion is made the means whereby increased interest and profit is wrung from the community. There could be an expansion of credit by the Commonwealth Bank that would assist the private banks. Time after time, reference has been made to the financial methods adopted during the last war, when the private banks placed loans on the market. The issue of those loans was made possible only because the private banks had the right to draw notes from the Commonwealth Bank. Loans were issued to approved clients, but £90 out of every £100 was lent only by the expansion of credit. When Commonwealth Bank notes were first issued the private banks received £3 for every sovereign they deposited in the Treasury, with the result that they were able to issue further credit. As  Senator Darcey  has pointed out on numerous occasions, the banks have issued credit to an amount of six to eight times their cash reserves. I do not wish to give the impression that a mere alteration of our methods of finance would overcome the disabilities imposed by nature or by economic conditions; but, by proper utilization of the credit of the nation, the people would get the maximum return for the expenditure of their energy. The Labour party recognizes that the community, working in unison, could enable a large issue of credit to be made. Instead of allowing its use by the private banks for the improvement of the bank balances of private individuals, it should be properly controlled, so that the nation would derive the whole of the benefit. 
The orthodox view of honorable senators opposite is that we cannot coordinate our war efforts unless we continue under the debt system. They contend that we should perpetuate the system of loans, which involves the payment of interest almost indefinitely. 
We are out to win the war, and yet those who control this Government and the finances of this country say that, in order to do so, we must perpetuate the debt system and use the credit of the community for private purposes, and so increase the amounts in the pockets of private persons that they will be able to draw interest indefinitely. I am not mentally overpowered by this ever-increasing debt. When Wellington and Napoleon met on the field of Waterloo, and a lot of money was expended, it was said that the debts then incurred would never be repaid. Those who said so were right; the original debt has never been repaid, but huge sums in interest have been paid. Before the last war, the national debt of Great Britain was about £800,000,000; when the present war began it was £3,000,000,000. Lord Stump said that when this war is over we shall owe more money than the total wealth of Britain. I shall not be misled by these figures of increasing debt, for, although they frighten many people, the fact remains that, if hundreds of millions of pounds have to be paid, the money has to be taken from those who have it. Should the national debt be increased, and inti-rest have to be paid on the debt, whatever government is in power will have to take the money from the people before it can be redistributed. Bernard Shaw puts the position neatly. He says that if he had to pay £1,000 a year in taxes, and his wife was entitled to draw £1,000 a year as interest on bonds, so far as the family was concerned, one payment cancelled the other. He would pay £1,000 and his wife would receive £1,000, less, perhaps, a little to cover expenses. The real danger is not so much that the national debt may be increased, but that when money is taken from one section of the people and paid to another section, its distribution may bring suffering and starvation to some and bankruptcy to others. If the interest debt were £10,000,000 a year, and £10,000,000 were collected from the same people in taxes, the one amount would cancel the other and, hey presto, the figures would disappear! We should not be frightened by these huge figures - " astronomical " is the popular term, I believe - but should  approach the question as realists. We should ask how many men and women in this country are able and prepared to do their bit; what are our resources and potential powers; what economic reorganization may be necessary to achieve the best results ; and what can be done to produce a supreme war effort and also give essentials of life to our people. Unfortunately, the Government and its supporters view everything from the point of view of money. The question usually is, "We want so many millions; where shall we get them ? " Although many of the workers are on low wages, the cry is, " Take it from them ". How far will that help us to win the war? Shall we achieve victory by reducing still further those who are now on the breadline? Will victory be won more quickly by refusing to deal fairly with invalid and old-age pensioners, or by rich men dismissing their gardeners and wealthy women dispensing with the services of their maids? If it could be said that those gardeners and maids would immediately be given useful employment in the production of munitions, the position would be different. It could then be said to their employers, " These munitions must be made, and notwithstanding your position in the community, you must do without your gardener, and your wife must do without 'her maid, because the services of every man and woman are required in the national effort". That is not done, however; it is money, money, money all the time. Everything is seen through the veil of finance and the economic truth is hidden. There has been much criticism of this Parliament and of government institutions by the press and those who assist it by their advertisements, because they are anxious to maintain the present economic system. They complain of the number of parliaments in Australia. I believe that the time is coming when we shall be more sensible in regard to State parliaments; but have those people who speak of the duplication of parliaments ever thought of the duplication that exists in industry? Have they ever thought of the numbers of company directors in Australia? Let us think for a moment of. the gas companies, breweries, investment trusts, shipping companies, insurance and other companies, with their numerous directors and huge staffs. Have those who talk of the cost of our parliamentary system ever considered the waste and inefficiency associated with the production and distribution of goods in this country? Twenty years ago, the cost of distribution represented about 25 per cent, of the price of a commodity; in many instances the cost of distribution to-day is 75 per cent, of the total cost. Some years ago, a company which dealt in sewing machines admitted in a court that a machine which it sold for £14 was landed in Australia for £2 10s. The price of a similar sewing machine to-day is £30. The distribution costs of most of the commodities in general use to-day are outrageous. If governments and others who seek to act in the best interests of the community would study the facts they would find that that is a field in which there is much scope for effecting economies. In that way, much could be done to improve Australia's war effort. I believe that the day when we shall organize out resources more scientifically is not so far distant as many people believe. 
There has been much criticism of the Labour Government of New Zealand. I frankly admit that that Government is working under the capitalist system, just as we are doing in Australia. Nowhere in Australasia is a socialist system in operation. It is freely recognized by all thinkers that it is difficult to superimpose a socialist system of finance on the capitalist system. In New Zealand efforts had been made to control the credit of the community in the interests of the people. I have here an extract from the Brisbane  Worker  on the subject of credit control. It is a statement by the New Zealand Minister for Finance,  Mr. Nash,  in which he says - 
Some critics of the New Zealand Labour Government declare that we do not control credit. The reply to that is that we do. It is only because we do so that our great public works policy was possible. Had we not controlled credit the guaranteed price with which so many dairy farmers are satisfied would have been quite impossible. 

 Mr. Nash explained that by buying out the private shareholders in the Reserve Bank and the Mortgage Corporation,  the Government had gained complete control of both institutions. 
Both the Reserve Bank and the Mortgage Corporation now acted entirely in accordance with the policy of the Government.  Mr. Nash  continued - 
A sum of £28,000,000 taken out of the Reserve  Bank  had brought marvellous results. For instance, Reserve Bank credit had financed the purchase of all the butter and cheese bought from the dairy farmers. 
One-half of the credit provided- £14,000,000 - had been devoted to the Government's houseconstruction policy,  and  there were no finer houses in any country in the world. These houses had been let at rent from 10s. to 15s. a week less than private enterprise houses. 
Through the Reserve Bank the Government controlled currency and credit in its entirety, and since the outbreak of the war there had been more control of currency and credit in New Zealand than had ever previously been dreamt of in any other country. 
The Labour Government of New Zealand consists of big men, who realize that a big problem confronts them. They are tackling it in a big way. The problems confronting Australia are big, and they, too, must be tackled in a big way by big men. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.J/S to 2.15 p.m. 

My contention that figures give a wrong impression is borne out by an article written by th, finance editor of the  Sunday Telegraph  and published in that newspaper on  the  24th November last. He showed that the national income in 1938-39 amounted to £788,000,000. The governmental appropriation was £111,913,784, and the balance £676,086,216. In 1939-40 the national income amounted in round figures to £863,000,000, the governmental appropriation being £150,100,000 and the balance £713,000. What he wrote may give heart to the Government, and it may use it on the hustings at the Swan by-election. Writing of the budget, he said - 
The additional impost is drastic but not unbearable because the national income continues to grow. Assuming that State taxation is no higher the figures indicate that £30,813,784 more income will be left with the public than in the previous year because income is higher. 
The ordinary mortal would come to the  conclusion  from that statement, that, in spite of the almost unbearable taxes that are to be levied, the people are to be nearly £37,000,000 better off than they were last year. It is no comfort to the worker on the lowest rung of the ladder to know that the national income has increased, when his own position is worsened. The taxpayer looks at the subject from an individual point of view rather than from a national viewpoint. The national point of view should be predominant, especially in war-time, but human nature does not operate that way. The men on the breadline whose standard of living is reduced by taxation, direct or indirect, are not likely to take comfort from the optimism of the finance editor of the  Sunday Telegraph.  These matters should be looked at from the economic rather than from the mathematical viewpoint. The approach should be: Is it possible for this nation to maintain the existing standard of living of the workers, and, at the same time prosecute the war to the full? The Labour party contends that the standard of the men on the lowest rung of the ladder can be improved, and that at the same time our power to prosecute the war can be increased. The men who draw the larger sums from the community ,and thereby help to increase the national income can afford to lend their surplus money. If they forgo expenditure on consumption goods they can increase their subscriptions^ loans, and they and their progeny are rewarded throughout their lifetime by the interest which they draw. But the worker is compelled, by a process of taxation, to forgo expenditure on consumption goods and his only reward is that he is told that he is performing a service to the Empire. An added difference is that when the wealthy forgo part of their expenditure they continue to enjoy the same standard of comfort, whereas the worker goes from a low plane to one that is even lower. 
The lower-paid worker is affected adversely, not only in the way that I have outlined, but also by the increased cost of living. We cannot deal with the cost of living in a general way. In order to draw an accurate picture we must look at the commodities and services received by the worker in return for his labour. Figures  in toto  .and  per capita  are very often used in order to depict circumstances, but they produce a false result. The only accurate picture of what is occurring in Australia or in other countries can he drawn after an examination of each individual in order to ascertain what he is drawing from the community by way of goods, services, enjoyment and so forth, and what he is returning to the community. The American millionaire, Jay Gould, will serve as an example.  His  long black coat was green with age and his office lunch consisted of a couple of biscuits and a piece of cheese. He took the greatest pleasure in beating any one down for a few cents. It is on record that on one occasion he was most cheerful when he " beat " a newsboy for 5 cents. He took little from the community, but, under the system, perhaps he gave a great deal in return. If we studied every member of the community in that woy we should find the real economic picture of the people as a whole. The workers produce the largest part of the wealth of the community, but individually they get very little in return. If, from the labour point of view, it were essential and vital that they should get less from the community in order to safeguard Australia, the workers would be the first to say, " "We shall give up some part of our pittance ". "What I have said shows how the people can be misled by figures. Those given in the  Sunday Telegraph  create a false impression. 
It is part and parcel of the process to keep the workers in the place they are now in. Bobby Burns said - 
To gull the mob and keep them under 
The Ancients told their talcs of wonder. 
Workers to-day are still being told the same old fairy stories. The figures relating to the national debt arc cited from time to time in order to keep the workers bewildered, but, as  Senator Cameron  once pointed out, the national debt is an asset to some people. If a man has £10,000 invested in the national debt it is an asset to him. Would it be an asset to Australia if every man had an equal share of the national debt? The interest from the national debt, however, does not go to the people who could do with it. 
I have shown how figures are used to hoodwink the people. Another method is the issue of war savings certificates. They are a natural development from the system, and their purpose is to divert money from consumption goods to the production of war materials. Questionable methods have been used by many firms to compel their employees to invest part of their wages in war savings certificates so that those firms will get the kudos, but the purpose and the result are not always the same. When speaking to some gentlemen several days ago, they said : " But we must have loans. There is not a country in the world that does not borrow. Why, even Russia calls for loans. Even the Russians have to lend money to the government." There is a reason for that. The people of Russia were promised that if they supported the Bolshevists there would be a five-year plan - there was a five-year plan and it was followed by another five-year plan - under which the country's wealth would be increased, the people's wages would be increased, hours of labour reduced and the standard of living improved. As the result of the low rate of economic production, the Government of Russia found that, in spite of the fact that the country was organized on a socialist basis, total production did not allow it to give to the workers those consumption goods which they had been promised. Had the Bolshevist government turned around and said to the people, " We have made a mistake in our calculations, and we must reduce your wages ", the people would have revolted.   Extension of time granted.']  The Russian Government realized that the people would resent any reduction of wages, and asked them for loans and thus it took from them millions of roubles. Anybody who knows anything about Russia's financial system knows that there was no necessity whatever for the Government of Russia to take one rouble from any peasant or moujik by way of loan. However, the Government followed that course deliberately, because by so doing it tied the Russian workers to the Bolshevist system, and made them believe that loans were essential to the future of the Soviet Republics. The Russian worker accepted a reduction of his wages which he loaned to his Government. That system was resorted to deliberately as a matter of 
State policy. Again, Germany deliberately adopted a policy of inflation in order to destroy the national debt. Russia had originally followed the same course. It is obvious that the economic power of neither Russia nor Germany was seriously affected by wiping out that debit. In each country, the mines, the mills and the working men remained in production. Germany has gone farther. It has moulded its financial machine in order to enable the nation to produce at the highest rate possible. Finance has been a secondary consideration with Hitler, Goering and Goebbels. In principle, we must follow a similar course in Australia; in order to save democracy we must mould finance according to the will of the people. The basis of this budget is the maintenance of the system of orthodox finance. It regards as secondary the needs of the nation in its present hour of peril. I do not blame supporters of the orthodox system of finance personally; their whole psychology is determined by financial interests. For this reason it is most difficult to persuade a government composed of gentlemen of the calibre of honorable senators opposite to initiate monetary reforms. They are wedded to the orthodox. 
I regret to have to say that the people of Australia do not fully appreciate the danger which threatens the British Commonwealth of Nations at the present time. As the result of the failure of the Department of Information - some one has described it as the Department of Misinformation - we are not fully cognizant of the grave peril which threatens us to-day. Every effort should be made to tell the truth to the men and women of Australia. Only by telling the people the truth can we expect them to perform effectively those duties, the discharge of which is vital to the welfare and safety of the nation. I realize that the outlook of our people as a whole is conservative; they stick to the old traditions and methods. It is most difficult to destroy their antagonism towards new ideas. That fact has been demonstrated by the rejection of practically every proposal submitted to the people by way of a referendum. Only one or two of such proposals have been adopted. In a time of peace, the people, regardless of political creeds, are instinctively conservative. It is only in a time of war, when danger threatens the nation, that the public mind becomes malleable. This outlook  on  the part of the people influences all governments, regardless of their political colour. Many men in the Labour movement who have been reared in the school of reform have ceaselessly advocated the release of our forces of production in order that every man and woman in the community should enjoy the greatest benefits. Their efforts, however, are defeated by the prejudice of the people against any new idea. In a time of  Avar,  however, that antagonism can be broken down. The people can then be aroused to a realization of the dangers that threaten democracy. In the present crisis, for instance, they realize that success for Hitler is not merely a matter of military victory. They know that should Hitler win this war, the people of Australia will be enslaved, in the production of practically every commodity which we  ave  capable of producing for consumption in Germany, and that for such services and goods they will receive no payment whatever. "We should use every means at our disposal to mould the mind of the people in such a way that every one will exercise his and her powers to defeat the common enemy. Is that being done to-day? No. It is not being done by this Government. The facts of the war have been hidden from us. Our people can " take " it ; let the Government tell them the truth, and rouse them to the dangers which threaten us. 
I am urging the Government to use every means at its disposal in order to organize for the defence of Australia and democracy. Honorable senators opposite talk about a national government as though it  were  a panacea  for  all our difficulties. The trouble with them is that they are still thinking in the old tradition of politics. We should get' away from the  old  methods. Our nation is in peril, and at such a time as the present the political colour of the government is beside the point. The Government has failed to rouse the people to a full realization of the dangers which threaten the British Commonwealth of Nations. However, if we attend to this duty as we should, it will be possible to unite the nation effectively. To-day certain leaders speak over the wireless in the cool, calm tones of a lawyer defending a client. Such methods will not suffice. In this matter let us take a lesson from Goebbels, who has built up the greatest propaganda machine the world has known. By that means Germany has succeeded in moulding the mind of its people for the prosecution of the war. 
It is necessary that our people be told the truth; at all events, it is not necessary to tell them a pack of lies. 
Criticism of the Government is essential, even in a time of war, if the rights of the people are to he truly safeguarded. In this connexion I should like to read a statement made by Somerset Maugham, one of the greatest of present-day authors. He was born in France, and as he knew that country so well, he was engaged there by the British Government on work of national importance. Commenting on France's collapse he said - 
I can sum up the causes of the collapse of France in a few words. The general staff was incompetent; the officers were vain, illinstructed in modern warfare and insufficiently determined; the men were dissatisfied and half-hearted. The people at large were kept ignorant of everything that they should have been informed of; they were profoundly suspicious of the government and they were never convinced that the war was a matter that urgently concerned them. The property classes were more afraid of Bolshevism than of German domination; their first thought was how to keep their money safely in their pockets. The government was inept, corrupt and, in part, disloyal. 
I do not say that all such criticism can be levelled, against this Government. I believe that every supporter of the Government hopes just as earnestly as we do that the war will be brought to a successful conclusion. However, many supporters of this Government think only of their money. That fear is bred by the present financial system. We, on this side, agree with Somerset Maugham, that if  a  nation values anything more than freedom it will lose its freedom. The irony of the present situation is that if comfort or money is valued most, they also will be lost. The Government can only rouse the people to a realization of our present danger by teling them the truth. Money and comfort must be a secondary consideration. This nation must be organized in order to meet onslaughts in the future. I fear that within the next few months the attacks of the enemy will be much more severe than has been the case up to date, and that our kin in the very heart of the Empire will be called upon to suffer to an even greater degree than they have already suffered. Let me conclude with the following words which I quote from Somerset Maugham: - 
And when a nation has to fight for its freedom it can only hope to win if it possesses certain qualities: These are honesty, courage, loyalty, vision and self-sacrifice. If it does not possess them it has only itself to blame if it loses its freedom'. 
I commend those words to honorable senators. Let us work in unity for the safety of the nation. Let us forget old traditions, and methods, which hamper us in our present task. In that way only shall we win out in our fight for freedom. 
 I have listened with interest, and, I trust, with some understanding, to a number of speeches delivered on the budget from the Opposition benches. In doing so, I hoped that I might be able to construe in my mind the kind of budget which the members of the Opposition would present to Parliament had they been occupying the treasury bench; but I am afraid my efforts failed dismally because of the inconsistency and lack of coherence which characterized their speeches. 
I approached this subject in much the same way as some members of the Opposition have approached it; but I have reached an entirely different conclusion. I believe that this war must be paid for by the generation which wages it. Also, I believe that we arrive at a false view of these problems if we approach them merely as money problems. That is illustrated by examining the practical position to-day. Day by day this community is losing the goods and services which could be provided by approximately 400,000 persons who are now  either engaged wholly in war production or are serving in the military forces. We are not able to enjoy all the goods and services which this section of the community could produce were we not at war. In other words, the losses which we suffer as a result of being engaged in a war, are the losses of goods and services to-day, and, in these circumstances, the one great problem confronting the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  is how best those losses can be spread over the entire community. In this time of grave national emergency one cannot get very far in a realistic approach to the problem by speaking of the reorganization of the whole of our economic system. 
It may; but we should be too busy with the gigantic task of winning the war, as our one supreme effort, to embark upon the difficulties and dangers involved in a radical alteration of our financial and economic system. 
Three methods by which the cost of the war can be met have been suggested. They are : Taxation, loans, and a resort to that somewhat mythical creation, national credit. I still do not know exactly where honorable members of the Opposition stand in relation to these three methods.  Senator Cameron  commenced with the brilliant suggestion that we should tax down to £500 a year all incomes in excess of that amount. But even if we did so we would not have sufficient to meet our war expenditure. If we took the whole of incomes of £1,000 and over the yield would be only £85,000,000 annually. Obviously,  Senator Cameron  has not provided a solution of the difficulty for this financial year. Next year it would be necessary to raise a similar sum, and probably more, from those who would have been deprived of the whole of their incomes for this year.  Senator Cameron  is not consistent. He told the Senate that all taxation ultimately falls on to the shoulders of the working man. From that I take it that he wants to adopt some other method of financing the war. Similar opposition to that which  Senator Cameron  expressed towards taxation as a method of providing war finance was also expressed in respect of loans. After all, when we raise loans, we are not getting away from the burden of paying for the war; but all those who subscribe to such loans are forgoing a larger proportion of goods and services than those who do not do so. They are forgoing, voluntarily, something above the amount that they are bound to forgo by the imposition of taxes. If, by means of taxation, we raised all the money that is necessary to finance the war, a far heavier burden would be thrown on all members of the community than will be the case if some of the money is obtained voluntarily from those people who can afford to lend it to the Government in the interests of our war effort. As the result of the wise financial policy which the Government has followed ever since the war started, we are not paying high rates of interest. Despite the demands for government expenditure, interest rates in Australia have decreased since the war began. Yet it is claimed that honorable senators on this side of the chamber are the representatives of big capitalist interests, whose only concern is that interest rates shall rise in order that they may get a higher proportion of the national income. The Government has been extraordinarily wise in the financial policy which it has adopted. It has not relied solely on taxation, it has not resorted fully to loans, and, at the proper time, it baa made use of central bank credit. 

 Senator Brown, who delivered an interesting and instructive discourse, suggested that the Treasurer had said in his budget speech that resort to bank credit must inevitably lead to a rise of prices. Actually, the Treasurer did not say anything of the kind. Indeed.  U  cated  quite frankly in the paragraph from which  Senator Brown  read, that there were occasions when governments could resort to bank credit without bringing about an increase of prices. In the first, place the Treasurer mentioned methods by which we might raise the money necessary to carry on the war; he referred to taxation, and then made the following statement : - 
It may come by expansion of credit, whereby spending power is taken from the community by rising prices. 
But his next sentence read - 
When business is slipping back, and prices are tending to fall, expansion of credit may only help to keep prices stable. 
That is a perfectly clear recognition of the fact that there are occasions when resort to bank credit is desirable, and- that, in certain circumstances, prices will not rise but, on the contrary, will be kept stable. The whole problem with which we are confronted in relation to bank credit is the degree to which we can use it with safety, and when we can use it without risk? I confess that I am appalled by the fact that the only tangible suggestion - if it can be so described - advanced by the Opposition for financing the war has been to resort to bank credit. Apparently, honorable senators opposite believe that in some mythical manner we can avoid the burden of war expenditure by printing bank-notes. I think that I can claim to have a liberal mind on this subject. I can see, along with the Treasurer, that there are times when bank credit can be resorted to with advantage to the community, hut these are times when that method of approach can only be used with the greatest of caution. 
Bank credit could be resorted to with safety during a period of low production in order to bring all of the forces of production into action; but that is a process through which this country has already passed. We are now reaching the stage when the forces of production are approaching full use. 
There is less unemployment in the community to-day than there has been since the heyday of 1927. At no period in the history of this or any other country has every man and woman been employed. The unemployment figure for the quarter ended September 1940 is 7.4 per cent, of the members of the reporting trade unions, and that is the lowest figure since August 1927. In Victoria the number of unemployed is now less than 10,000. 
They are the persons registered for the purpose of unemployment relief works or sustenance. An examination of the figures is rather illuminating. It shows that 47 per cent, of that 10,000 are over 50 years .of age, and 72 per cent, are over 40 years of age. 
The problem is to find useful employment .for them which will assist in the war effort. It is not possible to reduce unemployment to zero. A certain number of men go on the unemployed list when their seasonal occupation ends, whilst others are constantly transferring from, one job to another. The unemployment figures in this country are so low as to suggest that we are at any rate approaching the stage of full employment of our man-power. No fewer than 400,000 men and women are employed in Australia to-day, in producing not consumption goods, but munitions and other instruments of war, or are engaged in war activities in the defence forces. The labour of this large number adds nothing to the store of consumption goods available to the community. Wages are beingpaid weekly to this large body of men and women, and week by week they are making claims on consumption goods. In these circumstances, is it likely that this country can continue to enjoy the same relative consumption of goods and services as it would if we werenot at war? There must necessarily be a. reduction of the store of goods which all of us must draw upon, if the communityis to carry on the war  successfully 
My friends opposite say that this is a. time when we should increase the quantity of money available to the community. Every £1 note which is issued' represents a claim upon the limited storeof goods and services available. Therefore,, it seems to me almost beyond argument that, if we resort to unlimited bank credit,, or even to substantial bank credit, in order to get out of our difficulties, the only result will be that, with the increased number of bank-notes - claims to goods and services - circulating in the community, there must be an increase of prices. My three colleagues and I represent, by the votes we have received, the views and interests of more than half a million people in Victoria. These people are not large capitalists; most of them are working and middle class men and women, and'. they are the very people who will suffer if we approach the problem of war finance by issuing bank credit as a substitute for taxes and loans. We cannot escape the fact that there must be a relative reduction of the consumption by the community of the commodities which it desires and needs in peace-time. 
No matter how we approach the problem, it seems that the honest way is for the Government to take the money it requires from the community by means of taxes or loans. There will then be some reduction in the claims for goods and services; and the money thus released would be avai'lable for war production. If the bank credit method were adopted there would be an appearance of great prosperity for a time, and wages would rise; but, as I said a few days ago, rising wages would never catch up with rising prices. I am greatly concerned about the interests of those who would suffer most in such circumstances. To some degree, increased prices will be inevitable, but I hope that the increases will not be accentuated by resort to the expedient of issuing bank-notes as a substitute for sound and honest finance. 
That is what the honorable senator's proposals amount to; he cannot have it both ways. It seems to me to be the height of madness for the Opposition, which is a party that claims to represent working men and women, to encourage the idea that the burdens confronting the nation can be removed by substituting 'bank credit for sound finance. 
The speech by  Senator Brown  was an instructive discourse on the idea of financing the war effort by resort to what is vaguely termed national credit. In the final analysis, the war will be paid for by us now by a relative reduction in the goods and services which would otherwise be available to us. The issue of bank credit to a substantial degree would necessarily bring about an increase of the prices of the limited store of commodities available. 
I intended to refer to that tax. It does, to some degree, increase prices, but it is necessary to raise money by some means. 
One would have thought that a Labour government had not been responsible for the introduction of the sales tax, but in 1931 if found itself forced to resort to that expedient in order to get from the community the amount of money it needed. My friends opposite object to an indirect tax such as the sales tax on the ground that it weighs heavily upon the poorer sections of the community, but the issue of bank credit is the most insidious form of indirect taxation ever devised. It must bring about a continuous reduction of the standard of living of the people whom  Senator Cameron  represents. 
I am glad that during the course of this week members of the Opposition parties have seen fit to approve of the amended budget. 
The Government parties agreed to it first. 
The alterations that have been made are not fundamental, because the main principles of the budget stand. It is a budget designed to spread the burden of the war fairly among all sections of the community. 
It does not tax them. The lowest income on which tax will be levied is £4 a week. 
There will be, of course, some contribution by means of the sales tax, but a person who receives only £1 a week will pay very little tax. 
Almost all taxes place burdens on every section of the community. This budget is an attempt to spread the burden fairly; it faces problems realistically and honestly. It is a foundation upon which, I hope, the Australian community will avoid the worst features of war finance as we knew them in the last war, so that at the end of the war we shall not necessarily have to face a big economic depression as the result of our mistakes. 
I compliment  Senator Brown  on his excellent address to-day. It reminded me of the lines - 
Tis all very well to be pleased 
When life goes by like a song, 
But the man worthwhile 
Is the man who can smile 
When everything goes dead wrong. 
At the present time most things appear to be going dead wrong. The war position is grave, and the budget proposals show that, generally, things are far from satisfactory. The Labour party and tradeunionism generally desire to give the maximum assistance in the war effort. I am a secretary of a branch of the Electrical Trade Union, and I desire to quote from a short article in the official journal of that organization, because it sets out clearly the trade union outlook - 
If we knew the names of those who supplied the figures, we could ascertain whether they were accurate. 
Some time ago I drew attention to complaints by contractors who were not given an- opportunity to tender for the construction of quarters at the Western Junction Aerodrome. Whilst the number of sets of plans made available was far less than the number required by prospective tenderers, those who did tender were given only a fortnight in which to submit their price. As the result of the tenders being handled in that way the Government will incur an expenditure of £20,000 which it could have avoided. It is well known that the price which tenderers submit covers them against fines arising under the contract should they not complete the work within the specified period. That is a general practice, and, particularly in view of the way' in which tenderers were rushed in this instance, there can be no doubt that the successful tenderers covered themselves fully in that respect. I also complain because the carpenters' benches, for use on that work were imported from the mainland. These benches were made of Tasmanian wood which had been exported to Melbourne. Surely, it is stupid to send wood from Tasmania to Melbourne to be made up into carpenters' benches and then  to  send the benches back to Tasmania. With, the exercise of a little foresight such waste could be avoided. Another cause for complaint in connexion with the work is that the stoves installed in these quarters were also imported from the mainland. The Peters Star stove, which is made in Tasmania, is recognized to be the equal of any stove made on the mainland, and it could have been purchased by the Defence Department at a much cheaper price than was paid for the stoves which were used. 
The Defence Department has also incurred considerable waste in connexion with the construction of quarters for the guard at the cable station at Low Head. Since the Postal Department inaugurated the radio telephone service between Tasmania and the mainland, the necessity for the cable no longer exists. Had the Defence Department made full inquiries from the Postal Department on this matter, it would have learned that the employment of a guard at Low Head was unnecessary, and could thus have avoided the expenditure incurred iri the erection of quarters for the guard at that station. The construction of those quarters cost some hundreds of pounds. To-day they are useless, unless they be shifted to some other part of the State. 
I urge the Government to establish in each State a bureau at which skilled workers, who are now unemployed or engaged in unskilled callings, can register, so that their  services will be readily obtainable should they be required in war industries. Due to the fact that Tasmania produces fancy woods in abundance, hundreds of cabinet-makers reside in that State. To-day, many of them cannot find employment in their trade. For instance, I know of a first-class cabinetmaker who is now engaged as a wharflabourer. By reason of his particular skill a cabinet-maker can be readily absorbed in aeroplane construction. He is a neat workman, who turns out a finished product of a high standard. In addition, I know of many moulders in Tasmania who are working in the timber industry. If a bureau, such as I suggest, were established to enable these men to register according to their trade, their skill could be utilized in many factories engaged in the war effort. 
A statement of Government policy in respect of concession fares to soldiers is long overdue. Steps should be taken to secure concession railway fares to enable the men in camp to return home during the week-ends. Some of the States have taken action in this direction, but very often uniformity in these concessions' is lacking. For instance, the return fare from Hobart to Launceston has been reduced from 24s. 3d. to 8s. 9d., but fares from Hobart to places nearer than Launceston are greater. The fare to Deloraine is 9s.  7 1/2d.,  to Devonport 12s.  1 1/2d.  and to Burnie 14s. In Tasmania it is not an uncommon sight to see soldiers tramping along the roads back to their camps. On numerous occasions I have given lifts to men returning to the camp at Brighton. The Commonwealth should approach the State Governments with a view to securing greater concessions for soldiers, and it should also publish information on this matter. Perhaps the best arrangement would be to fix a flat rate, as low as possible, in respect of all destinations. Concession fares should be given to, not only members of the Australian Imperial Force, but also to members of garrison battalions. The Government should also endeavour to secure for these men a free railway pass at least once a month between their camp and their homes. 
No. The Government of Tasmania contends that, in view of the reduction of its grant from the Commonwealth Government, it cannot afford to provide further travelling concessions to soldiers. If a flat rate were decided upon, soldiers could secure their railway ticket when they received their leave pass. In that way congestion at railway ticket offices would be avoided. I also ask that greater facilities be provided by the defence authorities to enable parents and friends to see soldiers off when , they are embarking at Launceston wharf for the mainland. At present the men are obliged to go straight on to the boats from the train, with the result that relatives and friends have no chance to mingle with them as they would wish. This difficulty could be overcome by advancing the train schedule by half an hour. Situated adjacent to the Launceston wharf is Ogilvie Park, in which the men could see their relatives if they were allowed an extra half-hour to do so before embarking on their ship. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy state whether there are sufficient minesweepers operating in Australian waters to deal effectively with the mine menace to our coastal shipping? If not, will the Government consider diverting from other industries the services of skilled tradesmen for the building of suitable craft? Will the Minister also state whether there is a shortage of volunteers to man the mine-sweepers ? 
The Government has given serious attention to the problems referred to by the honorable senator. Obviously it would be unwise to state the number of mine-sweepers operating, but there is no shortage in Australia of volunteers for this work. 
Will the Government bear in mind the fact that, along the coast, are numbers of boat harbours from which heavy-duty, seagoing motor boats owned by fishermen have operated in the past, and that some of these fishermen are of enemy nationality? Will the Government take steps to have the operations of these vessels thoroughly investigated so that there will be no possibility of their interfering with interstate shipping? 
In order to obviate some of the difficulties confronting Tasmania owing to lack of shipping facilities, will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce consider the temporary waiving of restrictions imposed under the Navigation Act, which prohibit overseas vessels from participating in interstate trade, so that American and Dutch vessels may be allowed to trade between Tasmania and the mainland ports when such trips can be arranged? 
A conference with respect to shipping matters was held in Canberra last week, and all of the points raised by the honorable senator were discussed. The Government is taking all possible steps to ensure the provision of proper communication between Tasmania and the mainland. 
As many woolgrowers urgently need money to tide them over the Christmas period, will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state whether another appraisement of wool will be held in Western Australia before Christmas? 
I shall bring the honorable senator's question under the notice of the Minister for Commerce, and ascertain if any such arrangement can be made. 
Has the Minister for Supply and Development any proof that magnesium cannot be produced economically by the Australian Magnesium Company at Hobart? If so, who supplied the evidence with regard to the matter and what is the nature of it? If the answer to the first portion of the question is in the negative, why is the Government trying to hamper the production of magnesium in Tasmania at a time when Australia and Great Britain are in grave need of supplies of this metal in carrying out our defence programme? 
The subject of the production of magnesium by the Tasnianian company referred to by the honorable member has been under consideration by the Government for a considerable time. The Government is doing nothing to hamper the production of this metal in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What isthe amount of treasury-bills issued by the Government since the war began? 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue to raise money by the issue of further treasury-bills ? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and.2. The Commonwealth Government has not raised any money for its own purposes by the issue of treasury-bills since the outbreak of war. Treasury-bills have been issued on behalf of and at the request of the States to provide them with temporary financial accommodation. This is the normal procedure for State finance and the treasury-bills issued are repayable in the financial year of issue. The Commonwealth will continue to meet the requests of the States in this matter. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that there are rich oil-shale deposits in Tasmania, particularly in Mersey Valley near Latrobe? 
Is it afact that the Joint Committee of Public Accounts inquired some years ago into the possibilities of developing the shale deposits of the Commonwealth, and submitted a report dealing with the matter? 
Has the Minister read the report referred to? 
If so, will the Government give favorable consideration to the recommendation contained therein for the development of the deposits in time of war for defence purposes? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
No. The Commonwealth Government made available a sum of £6,200 for investigations in connexion with the Latrobe oil-shale field. These investigations disclosed that the shale was of such inferior quality as to preclude the development of the deposit for the production of oil. The oil yield is only 27 gallons to the ton of shale with a high sulphur content, as compared with Newnes and Glen Davis shale, which yields over 100 gallons of oil to the ton almost entirely free from sulphur content. 
Yea. 
Yes. 
See reply to 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the service pension is linked up with the old-age pension? 
If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether the1s. a week increase and other conditions affecting the old-age pension will be granted also to ex-sailors and soldiers in receipt of the service pension ? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Service pensions are closely associated with old-age pensions. 
lt is intended that an increase of ls. a week will be made in the case of service pennone &amp;s in the case of old-age pensions. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it true that £50,000,000 of bank credit hae been issued during the past twelve months ? 
If so, how much of this ' has emanated from the Commonwealth Bank? 
What were the methods adopted by the Commonwealth Bank in the issue of bunk credit, if any? 
The Treasurer has  supplied  the following answer : - 
Inquiries are being made and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Government issue instructions to the Prices Commissioner to inquire into the ramifications of Peters American Delicacy Company, with a view to ascertaining whether or not this company unduly influences prices of ice cream in Australia? 
With a view to preventing the continued exploitation of children and young people in Australia by  this  company, will the Government issue instructions to the Prices Commissioner to fix the price of ice cream ? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
The matter has been brought under the notice of the Prices Commissioner. 
The action to be taken by the Prices Commissioner will depend upon the result of his- investigations. 
On the 21st November  Senator Darcey  asked me a question without notice  as  to whether the Government would consider the desirability of inserting a clause in all Government contracts providing that successful tenderers must use the Commonwealth Bank to finance their undertakings. I am now in a position to inform, the honorable senator that the Government does not consider it desirable to insert such a clause in all Government contracts. 
On the 5th December  Senator Cameron  asked the following questions,  upon notice: - 
What is the cost of the war to Australia, up to date? 
How much of such sum has been raised by way of revenue, loans, bank credit and free gifts? 
How much is the Government committed to pay as interest annually on the loans involved? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
From 1st July, 1939, up to the end of November, 1940, the total expenditure on Defence and War (1939-40) Services has been approximately £ 1 09,524,000. 
The total expenditure has been met from the following sources: - 

<graphic href="165332194012101_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

Included in the amount met from loan are subscriptions to Government loans from the Commonwealth and trading banks. It is not the practice to publish the details of such subscriptions without the consent of the subscribers. As no such permission has been given in this instance it is not possible to state the exact amount. As far as the trading banks are concerned, however, the published banking statistics show that the trading banks in October, 1940, held Government and municipal securities to the value of £45,000,000 compared with £22,000,000 in October, 1939. 
The approximate annual interest liability on the total Defence and War (1939-1940) loans raised to date, including war savings certificates and the £20,000,000 loan at present on the market, is £2,595,000. It is estimated that the amount payable in the financial year 1940-41 will be £2,300,000. 
On the 6th December,  Senator Abbott  asked a question, without notice, as to whether the Government would consider a more serious exploitation of the oil shale deposits throughout the Commonwealth, with a view to the development of such deposits as those at Baerami and Murrurundi in New South Wales-. I am ' now in a position to inform the honorable senator that the Government has already taken active steps towards the development of the oil shale industry. Substantial sums of government money have been made available for the development of oil shale deposits at Glen Davis, and shale and coal spirit are protected to the extent of 7.4d. a gallon over imported petroleum spirit and 5.5d. a gallon over petrol refined in Australia from imported crude oil for a period of fifteen years on the understanding that there will be no limit as to the quantity which can be produced,but production must be undertaken within the next two years. These were the full rates of duty which applied prior to the outbreak of war. Certain interests are endeavouring to take advantage of this protection in connexion with the Baerami deposits, but reports indicate that deposits near Murrurundi are mainly of poor quality, and that they are faulted to an extent which would render mining operations very difficult. 
In addition, the Government has appointed a Director ofSubstitute Fuels whose functions are to promote - 
the production of benzol; 
the development of the shale oil industry in Australia; 
the expansion of the power alcohol  industry ; 
the more extensive use of producer  gas; and 
the development of such other sub stitutes for petroleum products as the Minister approves. 
.- In continuing my speech of Friday last I desire to express my appreciation of the action of the Government in deciding to increase the service pension to soldiers in conformity with the increase of the invalid and old-age pension. This action is the result of negotiations through the Advisory War Council, which body is to be complimented on the good work that it is doing. 
I desire also to express my appreciation of the work of the Australian 
Broadcasting Commission.On numerous occasions, I have criticised the commission for bringing artists to Australia from overseas, because I believe that the work of educating the Australian public in music and art generally can be more effectively done by holding concerts and competitions in Australia, and selecting from the local artists young persons of promise to be sent overseas for further training. There would be greater appreciation of the work of the commission if its revenues were expended in teaching promising Australian artists rather than in paying huge salaries to overseas artists to visit this country. 
That could be done occasionally, but not to the degree that has been practised in the past. 
Yes. I have a list of the names of the persons who have been engaged, but I have not been told what salaries have been paid to the overseas artists. 
I have said that I appreciate the good work which the commission is doing in broadcasting music, plays, descriptions of sporting events, educational talks, and other matters of general interest. I have been delighted to be present at some of the concerts arranged by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, especially those of Australian artists. They deserve the highest praise and I hope that they will be continued. The cost of the national broadcasting service is not excessive ; 10s. per annum from each listener is not a great amount. Several members of Parliament have been complaining about the publication of the  A.B.C. Weekly,  but that magazine is giving a splendid service, and the loss of £37,000 that was sustained on it in its first year must be offset by the saving effected by not advertising its programmes in he daily newspapers. Publication of programmes is an integral part of the broadcasting service, and the magazine, which is the best broadcasting journal in Australis, should not be stifled. 
In Tasmania, a great many workers go home for their midday meal, but the only wireless entertainment provided for them between 12 and 2 o'clock consists of weather and market reports, whereas they would prefer to listen to music. Again, from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m., when the people like to listen to musical programmes, only market reports and the like are broadcast. 
I appreciate the Government's decision to acquire the apple and pear crop this year. The loss of £750,000 sustained by the Apple and Pear Marketing Board on the crop acquired last season resulted from bad administration. The mistakes that led to that loss would be avoided this season if the orchards were kept under constant  supervision.  Last season the crops on many big orchards were overestimated - a mistake which must not be repeated. Another mistake .that would be avoided under a system of constant inspection relates to cold storage. Last season we witnessed the spectacle of Granny Smith apples, a hard fruit, being put into cold storage earlier than the soft-fruited Jonathans. I am told that pears were put into storage two months too late. Pears ripen from the middle and it is impossible to determine ripeness merely by looking at the fruit. The only satisfactory method is based upon the length of time which it takes for pears to mature. That period varies according to varieties, and, in order to avoid a repetition of the mistake which led to many hundreds of cases of pears in Launceston and, I understand, Brisbane, being thrown on the refuse tip, regulations should be promulgated specifying the dates on which the different varieties should be put into cold storage. Having been paid for their fruit, the growers who adopt slack methods should be kept closely superintended. 
The worries of the Apple and Pear Marketing Board would be lessened if the public were educated by an "eatmorefruit" advertising campaign. In the United States of America, which produces one-third of the world's apples, the  per capita  consumption of apples each year is 57 lb., and of citrus fruit 53 lb., whereas the relative Australian figures are only 35 lb. and 30 lb. respectively. 
There is urgent need to develop the Australian fishing industry. I understand that there is a fish cannery in New South Wales, but the cannery in "which I am particularly interested is the Lady Barren cannery at Flinders Island. Travelling at 185 miles an hour from Launceston to Flinders Island, an aeroplane in which I was recently a passenger took eleven minutes to pass over a shoal of salmon. The size of that shoal is conclusive proof of the abundance of edible fish in Australian waters. The modern cannery on Flinders Island is capable of handling much greater quantities of fish than at present. The main trouble with which the management has to contend is the unwillingness of the local fishermen to engage in their vocation when they are not in need of cash. After having been paid by the cannery for a catch the fishermen are disinclined to go out again until they run short of money. The result is lack of continuity of operations at the cannery. I suggest that the Government should give consideration to making a grant of money to people who are willing to exploit the fishing industry. 
The tuna which abound in Australian waters could be fished and treated more profitably than at present. The latest report issued by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research contains the following passage: - 
Much increased evidence of the tuna group of fishes has been obtained, and it now seems virtually certain that the numbers and distribution of this group are such that a commercial fishery can be envisaged particularly in Tasmanian waters. 
In March, 1940, an article was published in the Melbourne  Age  under the heading " Developing Fishing Industry ", in which the writer stated - 
The American tuna fleet, which has been gradually evolved to meet the needs of the industry, comprises vessels which are not only designed for long travel, but to carry large catches. Australian packers, because of the comparative nearness of the tuna grounds, would be able to use boats far less costly to build and operate. It is estimated that the longest tuna cruise in Australian waters would not need to exceed 300 miles from the coast, and that vessels adequate for catching and transporting the fish could be built here at one-tenth of the cost involved in constructing and equipping an American tuna boat. 
That passage proves that the Australian tuna-fishing industry could be operated even more profitably than that industry is now operated in the United States of America. 
Recently I was a member of a deputation which asked the Government to subsidize a company wishing to engage in salmon-fishing in Australian waters. That company substantiated its claim for assistance with the following statement: - 
For 1 lb. tall "Chum" the price landed into store in Australia is, we believe, 10s. 8½d. per dozen net. 
This company has quoted and supplied the Defence Department with 1 lb. salmon at 8s. 3½d. per dozennet. 
The saving, therefore, to be made by the use of Australian salmon would be 2s. 5d. per dozen, or 9s.8d. per case of four dozen. 
We believe that a modest estimate of the requirements of the Defence Department for home use would be 50,000 cases of1 lb. salmon per annum. Consequently, the saving, if the Defence Department could be supplied with Australian salmon, would be at least £24,000 per annum. 
Assuming the Government were disposed to set aside £50,000 as a loan to the industry to enable boats to be built to secure the supply of salmon, this amount would be repaid over a period, whereas in approximately two years the same amount could possibly be saved by the Government being able to buy Australian salmon at lower prices than the imported product. In addition, the loan would have enabled the salmon canning industry to have become established in Australia, thus conserving the overseas exchange position. 
By supplying Australian salmon they would be enabled to effect a saving of £24,000 in one year. Any grant made availableby the Government could be repaid over a number of years, or could be utilized in the interest of consumers through the lowering of prices. 
No; hut whilst Canadian and pink salmon is of better quality than Australian salmon, the latter is superior to the tinned salmon generally imported into Australia. The deputation's statement continued - 
It should also be mentioned that the boats which this company would build with government assistance, would enable Tuna to be caught and canned, and if this produce is not absorbed in the Australian market it could be exported in large quantities to America, thus further assisting in the conservation of the overseas funds. 
I know that the Minister is sympathetic towards the trawling industry, and I have no doubt that he will give the fullest consideration to the request which I have made on its behalf. 
Speaking in this chamber about twelve months ago on the necessity for patrolling Flinders and Furneaux islands, I said - 
The Furneaux group of islands between Tasmania and the mainland is on the route of the regular air services, and if a plane were forced to alight on the sea there would be no means by which a rescue could be effected. It is the considered opinion of the inhabitants of the islands that for defence purposes, and also for use in the event of accidents to air liners, a pilot boat capable of a speed of 40 or 42 miles an hour should be provided. 
These islands provide an excellent hiding place for an enemy raider operating in these waters. 
Under the Government's taxation proposals the tax on an income of £300 from property will be £6 a year, and on an income of £350 from property it will rise sharply to £12 a year. This means that in respect of those income levels the tax will be doubled when the income is increased by £50. That is unjust. In the summary supplied by the Treasury in connexion with the taxation proposals, it is stated that the rate of tax on income from property would be 25 per cent. on the lower incomes and would decrease to 3 per cent. on higher incomes. We are entitled to some explanation on that point, because obviously, the rate proposed will be unduly favorable to higher incomes. 
I believe that the Government is doing its best to prosecute a full war effort. The latest war news from the Near East and the Middle East is heartening, but that from England is not so good. I am greatly impressed with the work of the Advisory War Council, and I hope to see that body continue to operate effectively. 
SenatorJAMES McLACHLAN (South Australia) [3.35]. - In view of the fact that all matters arising out of the Governor-General's Speech may be discussed during this debate, the Government acted wisely in disposing expeditiously of the debate on the Address-in-Reply in this chamber. As this is the first session of the Senate since the general elections, I propose to comment briefly upon the results recorded recently at the ballotbox. Whilst Government supporters could have wished for stronger representation in the House of Representatives, the Government nevertheless was returned in that chamber with a majority. In the Senate, which is the States' House, it was returned with a substantial majority. Indeed, in the elections for the Senate, at any rate, the people of Australia took the opportunity to rectify some of the mistakes which they made in 1937. In five out of the six States the Government secured a total majority of 122,116 votes. In those States it also secured a preponderance of the votes cast in the election for the House of Representatives, the majorities for the respective States being Victoria 40,000, Queensland 15,000, South Australia 38,000, Western Australia 32,000 and Tasmania 5,000, or a total majority of 130,000. 
In New South Wales the Opposition candidates secured a majority of 249,000 votes. That result should have a salutary effect on thousands of the electors in the less populous States. It should induce them to resolve that they shall not allow the Government of Australia to be dominated by the most populous and wealthiest State in the Commonwealth. They should resolve to prevent New South Wales from becoming an octopus in national affairs. 
In discussing the Governor-General's Speech, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  took pains to impress upon honorable senators that  His Excellency  had played no part in the framing of that Speech, but had simply voiced it as the mouthpiece of the Government. All honorable senators are aware of that fact. We know that had a Labour government been in office  His  Excellency's Speech would have expressed Labour's policy. As stated by the Leader of the Opposition, the Governor-General's Speech merely outlines the Government's policy, which,. when put before the electors at tie last elections, had one main plank - the fullest possible effort to win the war. In the Governor-General's Speech the gravity of the position was stressed and a short  resume  was made of what is being done towards achieving, that important objective. Finally, an appeal was made to the people of Australia for wholehearted support and unity. Reference was also made in the Speech to the widespread industrial unrest throughout the Commonwealth. That was hardly necessary because the existence of industrial unrest has been published in almost every daily newspaper. The Opposition regarded that portion of the Speech as unfair and levelled at one section of the community, but it was nothing of the kind. The Leader of the Opposition stated that the industrial unrest was caused by the fact that employees experience undue delay in having their claims dealt with by arbitration tribunals. The honorable senator spoke of emergencies arising which demand immediate action to bring about a. settlement. No Government could be expected to provide machinery to eliminate industrial troubles and settle them in a few moments. Therefore, that industrial unrest can, and must, be settled by the existing tribunals. 
I agree with some of the remarks made by  Senator Lamp,  particularly thatpractical men should hear the claims which come before arbitration courts. I also agree with  Senator Keane  that, so far as is possible, it is advisable that legal men should not represent the parties before such tribunals. I am sure that if those suggestions were given favorable consideration and eventually adopted great benefit would result. The Government has taken a step in this direction by appointing a Minister for Labour, and that is indicative of the Government's determination to deal with all contingencies as they arise. We hope that the employees will be tolerant, knowing, as the Leader of the Opposition said, that disputes arise quickly. They will realize that the Government has just as many difficulties to overcome as they have. 
In an interesting speech delivered a few days ago,  Senator Spicer  cited unemployment figures which were not in accord with statements made by  Senator Cameron.  It was quite refreshing to know that unemployment had been reduced to such a low level, at least in Victoria. 

 Senator JAMES MCLACHLAN.That is so; but when the honorable senator referred dramatically to the starving multitudes in Victoria,  Senator Spicer  showed that in Victoria the unemployed numbered only approximately 10,000, or 7 per cent, of the population. All honorable senators will agree that the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  was confronted with a formidable task in preparing this wartime budget, and that he would have been super-human indeed had he been able to produce a budget above criticism. There is a considerable difference of opinion on financial matters, but the Treasurer is to be congratulated, not only upon the budget, but also upon his intimate knowledge of finance, as is shown by his lucid explanation of .the budgetary position. Although it has been said that revenue may be raised in three ways - by taxation, by loans, and by bank credit - there is a fourth method to which  1  shall refer later. The Government's taxation proposals have caused a considerable controversy. In the matter of income tax, I take no exception to the statutory exemption being increased from £150 to £200. A single person in receipt of £200 with no dependants should not find it irksome to contribute something towards the country's finances. The heaviest impost is on the higher incomes, as it should be. I do not agree with  Senator Cameron  that all incomes should be taxed down to £500, because that would take away from some persons much of the money which will be used to produce revenue later. 
Much has been said about the company tax, and opinion has been divided as to whether that tax should be levied on a percentage basis, as outlined in the budget, or on a flat rate; but I believe that when the Treasurer puts the actual figures before Parliament, every one will be satisfied that the method which he has adopted is right. 
We have heard a great deal with respect to loans. Some are in favour of compulsory loans; but at present I am opposed to such a scheme, because to a degree, it would dry up the sources of revenue. It must be remembered that most of the wealth in this country is not in cash, but in property of all descriptions, and if loans were raised compulsorily, many property-owners would be compelled to mortgage their holdings in order to meet the demands that would be made upon them. That would lead to the passage of moratorium legislation in order to protect the interests of the people. 
Notwithstanding .all we have heard or read concerning national credit, I am afraid that many persons, including myself, do not fully understand the system that has been outlined by some. 
The Leader of the Opposition, in discussing the budget proposals, referred to the loan position of the Commonwealth and to the fact that the associated banks had issued a greatly increased amount of credit since the commencement of the war ; but national credit expansion is generally understood to involve the provision of interest-free money. One of the most loquacious exponents of national credit in Australia is  Senator Darcey.  He can console himself with the knowledge that the national credit is now being utilized in this country to a greater extent than ever before. Honorable senators may decide for themselves whether this is due to his eloquence or to the war effort.  Senator Brown,  in referring to  Senator Darcey's  financial theories, said that some of the honorable senator's seeds of wisdom had fallen on barren ground. I remind  Senator Brown  of another Biblical allusion about a careful husbandman who planted his seed in good soil, but, during the night, an enemy sowed tares among it. Wherever national credit has been used unwisely a great deal of trouble has arisen, and I suggest that it would be well to avoid credit expansion as much as possible.  Senator Darcey  recently produced what he called Australia's balance-sheet. The document was well prepared and closely resembled a proper balance-sheet. The honorable senator gave one to me and I began to study it. I went so far as to make comparisons between the figures it contained and other figures in the Commonwealth  Year-Booh,  from which it was supposed to be  compiled,  but I was quite refreshed when the Leader of the Opposition said that certain figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician had been " rigged ".  Senator Herbert  Hays interjected that the figures had not been  " rigged ", and the Leader of the Opposition, in reply, reminded the honorable senator of the hackneyed aphorism that figures cannot lie, but liars can figure. He added that some persons are paid to manipulate figures, and can lie convincingly. An excellent address was contributed to the budget debate by  Senator Spicer,  who has probably given the best exposition of the proper use of national credit that has been heard in this Senate for a considerable period. 
A fourth factor that has, perhaps, not received the consideration it deserves in connexion with the budget proposals is the importance of effective administration. It is possible to make money by saving it. Every penny saved is a penny earned. I submit that the people of this country would submit to almost any impost in order to win the war. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Tes, but the people have the right to see that their money is judiciously expended. In my opinion, economies could be effected by more care in administration than has been exercised in the past. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.There are seven . Governments in Australia, and the aim of each should be to curtail expenditure as much as possible. When Ministers travel about the country they should not take with them a retinue of officials as large as the following which the Queen of Sheba had when she visited King Solomon. My criticism applies equally to members of the Governments of the States who periodically attend conferences in Canberra. 
In the selection of sites for military camps and training schools, careful consideration should be given to their suitability and to the expenditure involved. It should be realized that these camps are only of a temporary nature. Strict supervision at the outset would in many instances lead to a considerable saving of money. Justification for my comment is afforded by the answers received from the Government to questions asked by honorable senators regarding matters of this kind. A few days ago the Leader of the Opposition asked questions relating to a military training ground at Dapto, and the answer revealed that the cost had already reached between £8,000 and £10,000, yet the training is now to be carried out on another site ! A question was also asked about Southern Cross, which was to be used as an air-training centre. A reply was received that, as Southern Cross was considered an unsuitable site, the training school was to be transferred to Geraldton. It was pointed out that the conditions at Southern Cross were hot and dusty, and that it was not a suitable place at which to establish a school. One naturally asks why the officials who selected that site did not realize, in the first instance, that Southern Cross was a hot and dusty spot. Why were thousands of pounds wasted in that way? The Government is establishing huge munitions works in South Australia, but, in my opinion, this matter is not being dealt with as it should be. Maladministration causes a serious loss of public money. I realize that the Government is confronted with a task of great magnitude and if" entitled to all the sympathy and help that we can give to it. Nevertheless, I claim that every effort should be made to eliminate waste, and that no mistake should be made twice. Although Australia is at war it is not under military rule. Let the Government avail itself of the opinions and experience of those having a full local knowledge in areas where government expenditure is contemplated. 

 Senator Brown, in his concluding remarks on the budget proposals, expressed sentiments that will be echoed by every honorable senator. He stressed the necessity for an all-in organization and for unity, in order to obtain a maximum national effort in carrying out our defence programme. An interjection about a national government was brushed aside airily, but I take it that the first place where organization and unity are required is in the national Parliament. A national government with a national policy would be of incalculable value. In his opening remarks,  Senator Brown  said that the Labour party had gained a victory in the negotiations over the budget proposals. I certainly do not agree with him. The negotiations proved conclusively that the members of that party in this Parliament are subservient to an outside caucus, that they are not to he trusted, and that, if they gained an advantage in this Parliament, they undoubtedly lost prestige outside by the methods adopted in obtaining it. From the declaration of war to the time when the last Parliament was dissolved, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  was unceasing in his efforts to obtain a national government. Prior to the last elections, he offered the Labour party six seats in such a Cabinet, a greater number than it was entitled to by reason of its numerical strength. He reiterated, on the hustings, that if his Government were returned to power, he would continue his efforts to form a national government, and he has kept his word in that regard. After the election he offered to the Labour party half of the seats in the Cabinet or more than its numerical strength entitled it to hold. 
The negotiations were again abortive. However, an Advisory War Council was set up,but for its creation the rank and file of the Labour movement outside Parliament, not the members of the party within the Parliament, were responsible. I was astounded to hear the Leader of the Opposition say a few days ago - 
May I say, with pardonable pride, that the Australian Advisory War Council is the creation of the rank and file of the Labour party, sitting in conference first in Canberra and later in Melbourne. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.No; the Advisory War Council was set up against the advice of the members of the Parliamentary Labour party, who did not want it. That the rank and file forced the party to agree to the creation of this body is clear from the statement of the Leader of the Opposition which I have just read. The original budget proposals were submitted to the Advisory 
War Council, which had the right to question every item. Having considered the budget, that body raised no query whatever; but as soon as the budget came before Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  moved an amendment. 
But it was the budget to which he had taken no objection as a member of the Advisory War Council. 
I know what emanated from the meeting ofthe War Council. I know that no exception was taken there to the budget proposals. At a later meeting of the council, the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition was discussed, and again agreement was reached, the only proviso being that the leaders of the respective political parties would place the facts before their members, undertaking at the same time to recommend the budget proposals. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.No ; but the members of the Labour party again repudiated the agreement which their leader had entered into. 
I think that I have proved my second point, namely, that the Opposition was not to be trusted. 
By this time the Prime Minister had realized that, since the Labour party would not accept the advice of its representatives on the War Council, much of its proffered help and collaboration was only lip service. He, therefore, decided to have no more compromise, but to say definitely that if the budget proposals were not accepted by Parliament, the people themselves should be asked to decide. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.No; others climbed down. As soon as the Labour party realized that the Prime Minister was in earnest, and that rejection of the budget would have meant an appeal to the people, it crumpled and capitulated. 
In to-day's  Sydney Morning Herald  some remarks of  Mr. Curtin  are published. The report states - 
Labour,  Mr. Curtin  said, did not compromise last week. The compromise was made by the Prime Minister. The result was a better budget from Labour's stand-point. " A National Government," he added, " would bc an hour-to-hour and day-to-day series of compromises conducted in the secrecy of the Cabinet room. The compromise last week was open and above board". 
I point out that a compromise requires the consent of at least two parties. First,  Mr. Curtin  denied that there had been a compromise, and then he referred to the compromise of last week. The  Sydney Morning Herald  report continued - 
A conference of presidents and secretaries of brandies of the Official Labour party last night unanimously condemned the Federal Parlia.nienta.ry Labour party's decision to compromise with the Federal Government on the budget. 
The decision is regarded as a vote of  censure  on the federal Labour leader,  Mr. Curtin.  . " The action of the caucus has given the Menzies Government another lease of life, and will enable it to continue its vicious attacks on the standard of living of the people of this country," read a resolution carried by the delegates. 
That is the position as I see it. However, it is not yet too late for us to settle our difficulties, and unitedly face the problems which confront the nation. God only knows what 1941 will bring to the world, and therefore I ask that every nian and woman in Australia will approach the New Year determined more than ever to bring the war to a successful conclusion. 
The Senate has just listened to an extraordinary speech from  Senator 
James McLachlan. We have repeatedly heard honorable senators opposite say that they desire unity in this Parliament and in the nation's war effort, but on every possible occasion they seize the opportunity to create difficulties and reproach honorable senators on this side. The honorable senator rejoiced in his belief that the Labour party had climbed down, but I hold that there can be no climbing down in view of the great issues which confront the nation at the present time. Whatever intelligence we have should be pooled, with a view to arriving at a common policy which will best meet the existing circumstances. I deprecate the attitude adopted by the honorable senator this afternoon. 
When the budget was first introduced members of the Labour party adopted a certain attitude towards it, because they believed that the imposts proposed to be levied on the poorer sections of the community were too great, and would cause deflation and so react to the detriment of the people generally. We therefore sought a reconsideration of the budget by the Government. The result is that the amended budget proposals are much more satisfactory than the proposals originally introduced by the Government. To the degree that the amended budget is better than the original budget the credit is due to the Labour party. However, I do not propose to emphasize that point, but I pass on to say that I believe that we must consider on their merits the matters that come before us. The great difference between the Government and the Opposition is that, although all parties are agreed that it is necessary to secure finance to carry out our maximum war effort, we on this side say that the burden, must be shared fairly by all sections of the community. The Labour party is actuated hy that desire, and we rejoice that in some degree our efforts to achieve it have been successful. I was sorry that at the beginning of the budget discussion the Prime Minister adopted a nonconciliatory attitude; but I was equally pleased that, later, he was prepared to reconsider the budget and listen to the representations of the Labour party. I compliment him on so doing.  Senator James  McLachlan made the astounding statement that the Advisory War Council was responsible for the budget; at least, that is the only deduction I can make f rom his remarks. 
That was the only impression that his remarks could convey, as readers of  Hansard  will agree when they see his speech in print. After the election, the Labour party realized that the electors had returned the Government with a slight majority, and therefore it honoured its undertaking to assist the Government to make the Parliament workable. Having done so, we are now jeered at by honorable senators opposite who say that we have climbed down and sacrificed our principles. We compromised in order to enable the Parliament to function, to ensure that the country's war effort would not be impaired, and to enable the workers of this country to get a little more than they would have received under the proposals of the Government. The budget as it now stands is a very fair one, and I am prepared to accept it, although I regret that the Government has not gone a little further towards meeting the needs of the invalid and old-age pensioners. The Labour party holds strongly that a scheme of child endowment and other reforms should be introduced, hut we realize that these reforms must be left in abeyance for the present. However, I regret that the invalid and old-age pension has not been increased to at least 22s. 6d. a week, so that the pioneers of this nation, many of whom lost sons and loved ones in the last war, could enjoy a little more comfort. Many of the pensioners are compelled to subsist in the slums, where their rent absorbs 8s. to 10s. of their £1 a week. They have no facilities to live a decent life. Any additional consideration which the Government could give to them even now would be accepted gladly by this party. The concessions which have been given will be helpful to the community, because an additional £3,000,000 or £4,000,000 to be made available will be in circulation. The expenditure of that money will be reflected in industry. The decision not to reduce -the statutory exemption below £200 will mean that the hulk of the workers will be left with the little spending power they possess to be used for the benefit of the nation. 

 Senator Spicer, whom I congratulate, is a welcome addition to this chamber.  His  common-sense speech broke the conspiracy of silence on the other side of the chamber. He was the first honorable senator opposite to speak in this debate - but it was more the speech of a lawyer than that of a politician. He put the Labour party in the dock and accused it of having certain beliefs about financial reform. I do not know where he got the information on which he based his charges, but I assure him that his attack on this party was entirely without foundation. The Labour party has decided views on the financial system, but it realizes that it must have a majority in this Parliament to put its platform into effect. 
Does not the honorable senator subscribe to the views of  Senator  Darcey  ? 

 Senator James McLachlan in this chamber and Government supporters in the House of Representatives have repeatedly advocated the establishment of a national government on the lines of the Government of Great Britain, but the two countries are not analogous. In this country, many people are striving to avoid the loss of privileges and are clinging to all their advantages in the hope that everything will turn out all right. When the Labour party of Great Britain agreed to join the British 
Government, the first thing it demanded and had granted was an increase of pensions and wages and an improvement of industrial conditions. The justice of those concessions was conceded by the Prime Minister of Great Britain  (Mr. Churchill).  It was on those lines that we approached this Government. 
 In Great Britain National Government came first. 
There is a feeling abroad that there has been careless spending, and I hope that in the future the Governmentwill take steps to ensure that it gets full value for every £1 that it expends. The sacrifices which the workers of Australia have been called upon to make so far do not compare with the sacrifices that the British worker is making. He can never be sure, when he goesto work in the morning, that he will not return to a bomb-wrecked house and and his wife and children dead. Nevertheless, the Australian workers are prepared to sacrifice everything for the preservation of democracy and freedom which they hold so dear. The common people have the most to lose if Hitler is successful in his onslaught on liberty, and, in order to protect the workers in Australia, the Labour party is determined to assist this Government in its war-time effort. It is not a qualification of that statement to say that the Government and the Opposition differ as to the methods which should be employed to prosecute the war. The Government's policy is to lower the purchasing power of the workers. 
 Can the honorable senator tell me the statutory exemption level in Queensland? 
 The lower incomes are taxed in Queensland. 
If there be any redeeming feature of this war, it is the fact that the Australian workers have demonstrated their  ability  to produce all our needs. Some consolation is to be derived from the fact that when the war ends- the new industries which have been set up as its result will continue to benefit the country. I believe, however, that industry can make progress only if the employees are paid adequate wages. That is a sound principle. I recall that when I wa3 a boy able-bodied men engaged in most arduous labour were refused butter in their ration. A 1-lb. tin of jam handed out to them on Monday morning had to last until Saturday, and for want of a place to store their rations the men were obliged to keep their food under their pillows. How can any one maintain that a policy which was responsible for those conditions will bring prosperity to this country? Those days have gone, but, apparently, the Government needs to be warned to-day against reducing wages. Once wages are reduced the purchasing power of the community is decreased. On this point I cannot do better than quote a recent remark by  Mr. Forgan  Smith, the Premier of Queensland. In passing, I might say that this Parliament is much in need of the services of a man of  Mr. Forgan  Smith's ability. 
If somebody stops buying somebody stops selling; if somebody stops selling somebody stops producing; if somebody stops producing somebody stops working; if somebody stops working somebody stops earning; if somebody  stops  earning somebody stops buying. 
Whilst I cannot claim to be an authority on finance, I realize that our financial structure rests on the resources of this country and the ability of our people to mobilize those resources in the production of  all  of the commodities we need. We may, of course, be obliged to borrow on future production. Indeed, to some degree, the Government is now implementing that policy. However, the point I emphasize is that the financial credit of the nation should be controlled in the interests not of private individuals, or institutions, but of the people. I recall that just before the depression financial institutions in this country were expending huge sums of money on the construction of palatial buildings in Sydney and Melbourne, while, at the same time, they refused to provide finance for works essential to the development of Australia. At that time the Government of Queensland found difficulty in securing sufficient finance to enable it to proceed with development works, including roads and bridges. The financial resources of this country must be controlled solely in the interests of the nation. In that work the Commonwealth Bank can play an important role, and that institution should be used to a greater degree in that direction. Unfortunately, however, it would seem that the policy of the Commonwealth Bank is subordinated to the interests of private financial institutions. 
The Government's compromise in respect of increases of pay to soldiers, and allowances to wives and dependants of soldiers, will bring joy to many people. The Labour party was responsible for securing that concession. Some people say that in doing so it climbed down. If that be so I shall be prepared to do a lot of climbing down in the future. Another concession which the Labour party secured was the consent of the Government to appoint a committee to investigate taxation proposals. We cannot say whether that committee will be able to devise a formula acceptable to all parties. However, its appointment exemplifies the value of compromise. Every political party will be given an opportunity to present its views on taxation generally before the committee. 
Any one who has the interests of our democratic institutions at heart, and believes in our system of democratic government, must deplore the attitude adopted by a section of the Australian pres3 prior to, and during, the recent election campaign. Eoi- a number of weeks before the campaign opened, that section of the press indulged in most unfair criticism of the Government. It sought to make the issue at the last election a fight between Sydney interests and Melbourne interests. At the same time it ignored completely the interests of the other States. Apparently its criticism was actuated by the idea that if one or two gentlemen in New South Wales were elected to this Parliament our problems would be automatically solved. 
One of them was a Labour man, and he was elected. What does the honorable senator think of him? 
It is to be regretted that owing to the necessity for prosecuting our war effort to the full, we must, for the time being, pay less attention to the development of Australia. This country needs a greater population, and we can secure a greater population only by encouraging industry. We have the intelligence and ability to tackle that job, but we shall never do it efficiently unless we maintain decent living conditions for the mass of the people. I cannot emphasize that point, too much. Unlimited production will be useless unless we can provide a market for the commodities we produce.  For  instance, it would be useless to produce 1,000 pick handles if only one man required such an article or only one person could afford to buy one. I again urge the Government to rely to a greater degree upon the advice of practical men in industry. We are able to produce all of the goods we require. 
Most of them. 
I am a realist. We must face our responsibilities and obligations. The budget is reasonable. Perhaps, a number of my colleagues will not agree with me on that point. However, I believe that regardless of its political colour any government would be obliged to act upon similar lines. At the same time we should avoid building up a huge national debt. We know that the sons of soldiers who died in the last war are still shouldering a heavy burden in the payment of interest to those who did not fight in the last war at all. The Government should exercise strict control over interest rates. This, of course, will mean smaller profits to lenders. Our people cannot escape the heavy burden which the Government must place upon them, but whilst taxation must be severe it should be wise. Such a policy will meet with no serious opposition from the Labour party. 
I agree with many of the remarks made by  Senator Courtice,  but I am afraid that, from the general tone of the speeches delivered hy several other honorable senators opposite, a stranger in the gallery of this chamber would have gathered, the impression that 
Government supporters wished to oppress all those in receipt of small incomes. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber at least know that that is not correct, proof of which is found in the continued support given to the Government by the Australian people in past years. Had the Government not considered the welfare of the people on low incomes, it would not now be occupying the treasury bench. Probably there is no other country in the world in which the wealth of the population is so evenly distributed as it is in Australia. 
I support the budget, and my first reason for so doing is because thu voters of Queensland elected me and my colleagues, Senators Crawford and Foll, to this chamber to apply our energies to the task of winning the war. As finance is necessary, and plays a most important part in the winning of any war, it is natural that the budget should have as its main object the raising of sufficient revenue to prosecute successfully Australia's part in the struggle. The budget embodies the best means to raise the necessary revenue, and maintains an even balance between taxation, loans, and bank credit. I also believe that the budget fulfils one of the mo3t important requirements of any budget, in that it distributes the burdens of taxation as equally as possible. I agree that it is impossible for any government to place the burden equitably upon the shoulders of all people, especially in time of war. It is inevitable that some sections of the community will suffer more than others, but the people who make the greatest sacrifice are those who offer life and limb in the service of their country. The least that those who remain at home in comparative safety can do is to give their wealth, in order that their country may make the best possible war effort. The Government considers it necessary to tax incomes on a lower level than previously, which has caused a considerable amount of dissatisfaction. It is true that those in receipt of small incomes have been asked to bear their share of the burden, but since the budget was introduced, I have not received one complaint from any of the electors in Queensland concerning the Government's  taxa-tion  proposals. The wealthier sections of the community are also to be taxed to a far greater degree than previously, in some instance up to 14s. in the £1. 
If we compare the proposed taxes on low incomes in Australia with corresponding taxes operating in the sister dominion of New Zealand, and in Great Britain, we find that the people of the last-mentioned countries are bearing a far heavier burden. All portions of the British Commonwealth of Nations are expected to share equally the burden of meeting war expenditure. Yet we find that members of the Labour party are not prepared to go so far as Great Britain and New Zealand, and arc even cavilling at the moderate taxation which the Commonwealth Government proposes to put on the lower incomes. Had the Government asked for the same amount of revenue from the lower incomes as is being derived in Great Britain and New Zealand, I could have understood honorable senators opposite creating a disturbance, but, in the circumstances, I cannot understand them saying that working men who apparently are quite willing to pay their share of this war should not bear their portion of sacrifice. 
I have those figures, and I shall quote them for the information of honorable senators. In Australia, a nian with no dependants, in receipt of £5,000 a year, will have to pay £2,792, whereas the corresponding figures for New Zealand and Great Britain are £2,747 and £2,920 respectively. That the Government realizes that those in receipt of the higher incomes should be called upon to make the greatest contribution, is borne out by those figures. 
I am not conversant with the exact figures, but I think that in Australia there are only a small number of persons whose incomes exceed £5,000 a year. 
That may he so, but the honorable senator must bear in mind that individual incomes in Great Britain are greater than individual incomes in Australia. Wealth is much more equally divided in Australia than it is in any other country, so that we must derive a reasonable amount of our revenue from that enormous proportion of .the population which receives the bulk of our national income. 
Many suggestions as to how the money could be raised in some other direction have been put forward by the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition suggested that 20s. in the £1 should be taken from all company profits exceeding 5 per cent. In effect, that would mean that 5 per cent, would be the maximum profit allowed for any business undertaking in this country. I ask the honorable senator to visualize what would happen to, say, the mining industry were his suggestion adopted. Mines represent a diminishing asset during the whole period that they are in operation, and on a profit of 5 per cent, many of them would he unable to carry on. In the north of Queensland there are deposits of rich copper - the ore containing up to 22 per cent, of copper - but the mines went out of production because the profit- obtained was too small, and now that huge wealth of copper is lying idle. It is futile to make suggestions such as that made by the Leader of the Opposition without first becoming fully conversant with the probable effects and repercussions upon industry. 

 Senator Darcey, who is consistent in his views, has expressed the opinion that all the money necessary to carry on the war could he provided by the Commonwealth Bank. The Government has different views on that matter, and quite frankly, having regard to the safety of the people, it does not think it possible to wholly employ that method. The statement has often been made by supporters of the financial theories advocated by  Senator Darcey  that the finance necessary for the carrying on of the war should be provided by the Commonwealth Bank, debt and interest free, as suggested by the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems. Whatever that commission reported, it nowhere visualized the possibility of debt-free credit. Its report merely stated that loans based on national credit could be issued, but nowhere did it state that the Commonwealth Bank should make them. I draw the attention of honorable senators to the conclusions of the commission, in chapter 5 of its report. Paragraph 466, which deals with proposals for monetary reform, states - 
We have given full and careful consideration to all the material to which our attention has been called, or which we have been able to discover for ourselves, upon this subject. We fully appreciate what has been urged upon us with respect to the problem of poverty, but we are unable to find that the social credit theory offers any solution. 
I, together no doubt with other senators, received many letters during the recent election from electors interested in easy finance, stating that the money necessary to finance the war must be provided by the Commonwealth Bank, debt and interest free, " as provided by the Royal Commission on Banking ". 
No where does the report even remotely suggest that the Commonwealth Bank should do this, which the words " as provided by the Royal Commission on Banking ", in the statement quoted above, would imply. 
What the royal commission did " provide " is to be found in the 30 recommendations at the end of the report. I regret that the commission has been misrepresented with regard to its findings. It has not suggested that the Commonwealth Bank should issue debt and interest-free credit. 
I think at this stage it is advisable to read paragraph 504 dealing with the issue of credit - 504. Because of this .power, the Commonwealth Bank is able to increase the cash of the trading banks in the ways we have pointed out above. Because of this power, too, the Commonwealth Bank can increase the cash reserves of the trading banks; for example, it can buy securities or other property, it can lend to the governments or to others in a variety of ways, and it can even make money available to governments or to others free of any charge. 
And the following paragraph 513, which is linked up with 504 - 513. More important than the effects on prices are the effects of expansion and contraction of money on the volume of production, and on the distribution of production between different classes of industry. For example, an increase of bank loans is likely to cause an increase in the production of capital goode  rather  than consumer's goods, and later to cause some disequilibrium. Moreover, if money ie easy to obtain, the growth of speculative concerns is likely to be encouraged, though their failure may be inevitable. The probability of results such as these is the chief reason against an undue expansion of money, for it produces changes in the structure of production which later will necessarily destroy the equilibrium of the economy. 1 would also like to read to the Senate paragraph 25 of the commission's recommendations on Nationalization of Banking 
About 400,000 men are now either employed on war work or are in the services and it is unnecessary for the State authorities to impose special taxes for unemployment relief when the unemployed are few. 
I congratulate the Treasurer upon the courage that he has displayed in presenting this budget. Admittedly, the burdens to be borne by the community are heavy. France collapsed quickly during the present war, largely because it had had a succession of weak governments which were afraid to tell the people that they would have to bear heavy taxes and increase production. If the Treasurer had been a weak Minister he might have been tempted to employ the financial methods advocated by  Senator Darcey,  but he preferred to let the people know that it is necessary for Australia, as well as other parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations, to make heavy sacrifices. The sole reason for this huge expenditure is the nation's war effort, a fact which should not be lest sight of when we are considering the Government's taxation proposals. So far, Australia has scarcely felt the effects of the war, whereas Great Britain, in addition to bearing the brunt of the enemy's attack, has also had to carry the financial burden. It is not right that we should expect Great Britain to carry any proportion of our financial burden in order that we, far from the' scene of the conflict, may carry on as before. 
I have not seen much evidence of the honorable senator's interest in the war. In fact, many people in this country scarcely realize that the nation is at war. 
The honorable senator can get from the newspapers all of the information that he needs. The Australian people are asked to pay a little more in taxes in order to retain their place in the world, and I  believe  that they are willing to do so if they understand the true position. Every day the war is creeping nearer to our shores. 
In waters adjoining the Australian coast 90,000 tons of shipping have been sunk during the last few months. Those losses have brought home to us that Australia is not immune from attack. The Treasurer asks the people of this country to find £1S6,000,000 this year for this country's war effort, of which £143,000,000 is to be raised in Australia. Of that sum, £65,000,000 is to be obtained from revenue, and £50,000,000 from loan; the remaining £2S,000,000 has been carried forward from the previous year. Ad amount of £43,000,000 is to he provided by overseas loan. The budget for 1915-16, which was introduced into this Parliament by the then Treasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  is the comparable budget for the war of 1914-1918. It contemplated war expenditure amounting to £50,000,000, of which £9,000,000 was to he provided from revenue and £41,000,000 from loan. That loan money involved the payment of interest at 4£ per cent, or 5 per cent., whereas the loans raised to finance this war have been floated at 2-J per cent, interest for five years, and 3^ per cent, for from ten to sixteen years. Notwithstanding  the greater amount proposed to be expended this year compared with 1915-16, the burden on the people will be lighter than it was then, because when  Mr. Higgs  contemplated an expenditure of £50,000,000 the estimated income of the people was only £200,000,000, whereas the national income at the present time is estimated at £745,000,000. Honorable senators will see that an expenditure of £50,000,000 in 1915-16 represented about one-fourth of the national income, whereas the contemplated expenditure of £143,000,000 for war purposes this year is approximately one-fifth of the total income. Had the proportion been the same as in the second year of the previous war, the Treasurer would have asked the people to provide for war purposes in Australia this year the sum of £186,000,000. 
In other respects also this war differs from the last. Australia was then asked to supply only men. The response was so magnificent that up to April, 1916 - the nearest comparable date to the present period of this war - 180,000 Australian troops had been sent overseas. Those men were clothed and partly equipped in this country. At that time Australia had its own infantry, artillery, pioneer units,' camel corps, light horse, engineering and other units, as well as a small air force, whilst our navy was then, as now, rendering all possible assistance to the British navy. Since the war of 1914-18, the armies of the world have been mechanized, and instead of an air force consisting of a comparatively few machines, we have to-day hundreds of air machines. Mechanical equipment is costly and increases the cost of this war compared with the last war but it is more efficient. Up to M.arch, 1916, Australia had suffered 42,000 casualties, but, so far, the wastage of man-power in this struggle has been practically nil. Our troops are still intact. 
That is so. Warfare has become more speedy, and our aim, therefore, is to produce speedier machines than the enemy possesses, so that we may exceed his striking force. Moreover, during the last war, Australia itself was not in grave danger, its front line being overseas; but to-day we must have men trained, not only to take their place on the overseas front, but also to defend our own shores. That necessitates the training and equipping of a defenceforce of approximately 250,000 men, involving heavy expenditure in the provision of camps, training grounds, aerodromes, aircraft and other equipment. 
The Government has done a good job in preparing this country to take its share in the conflict. The expenditure on this war is entirely different from the expenditure on the last war. "Whereas the bulk of the money is now being expended in Australia, in the last war a large proportion was expended overseas, and I venture the opinion that what has been achieved in the development of industry in this country since the beginning of the war is more than could have been achieved in 25 years of peace-time effort. Now we are producing, not only munitions, but also guns, aeroplanes, and every other part of our war needs. The factories which have been established will be a national asset when peace returns. They will continue in production and go on employing a steadily increasing number of men and women in the production of peace-time necessaries. Daily more men are being trained for work in workshops and almost every month new secondary industries come into operation. In fact the sword will literally be turned into the ploughshare by these industrial workshops in time of peace. In Great Britain industrial towns are being bombed, and factories,. I have no doubt, thrown out of production, whereas in this country industry is steadily forging ahead, safe from enemy action. It is a wonderful opportunity for Australian secondary industries. 
Although the increased taxes represent a deduction from the wages of the workers, the money which is taken from those workers will immediately flow back into circulation and be used to pay wages to other workers. 
Notwithstanding the heavy drain upon the public purse in the last two years, the requirements of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act have been complied with. In the year ended the 30th June, 1940, £11,041,000 was paid into the sinking fund for debt redemption. In the current financial year £13,000,000 will be provided for the same purpose. 
I welcome the provision of £90,000 for the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. That body has given valuable service to this country, especially in research into primary production. The council is now to be commended for its research into matters appertaining to secondary industries. Its work in that direction has been of material assistance in the war effort. 
The job that we have undertaken is the nation's job and before victory is assured every one of us will be called upon to share the burden. I hope that the time is not far distant when we as a parliament will be jointly sharing as an all party Government the burdens and responsibilities that have been thrust upon us. 
I wish that you,  Mr. President,  had the power to throw out this budget. It is deflationary and can only result in another depression. I do not think that the parties opposite are entirely responsible for the situation that this budget has brought about, because the High Commissioner in Australia for the United Kingdom,  Sir Geoffrey  Whiskard,  seems to have influenced the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  The Right Honorable S. M. Bruce, about ten years ago, said that the Australian people must tighten their belts and become accustomed to unemployment. Similar words were spoken recently by  Sir Geoffrey  Whiskard at a dinner in Sydney. He said that the Australian people must be heavily taxed and that their standards of living must be reduced. Subsequently, day after day, newspapers published leading articles on the subject. In part those articles urged upon the Government the need to utilize credit. Doubtless, those portions would be determined by the stand taken by the industrialists. The articles would then go on to state that if effect' were given the taxation proposed by the Government, deflation, followed by depression, would result. The articles would then go on to give the view of the bankers that credit should not be touched, because interference with the credit structure would mean inflation, higher . prices and consequent depression. In the midst of all those articles, the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  brought down a budget which caused consternation. One honorable senator said that he had received no letters condemning the budget. If that be so the people of Queensland must be backward, because agitation against the budget is rife in New South Wales and public meetings of protest are being convened at the Sydney Town Hall. 
Last week some honorable senators supported the budget in its original form. Those honorable senators opposite who have spoken to-day have supported it in its amended form. Had a budget been brought down having for its purpose even heavier taxes, those senators would have risen in its support regardless of what effect it would have on the standard of living. The result of the taxation policy of this Government will be countless bankruptcies. Workers who have married in the last few years will lose  their furniture, and even their homes through their inability to pay taxes .and at. the same time meet their other commitments. The budget will affect the man with an income of £400 almost as severely as the man on the basic wage. In their general effect the proposed taxes will cause widespread bankruptcy, and increase unemployment. The Government could, if it so desired, raise that portion of the revenue which it now proposes to derive from taxes on the lower incomes, by utilizing the national credit. There is nothing revolutionary in thi? idea because the Government, in some instances, has already utilized the national credit. I have not the slightest doubt that its decision in this respect has been dictated by the private financial institutions. The Government should nationalize banking. It should never have handed .over any portion of our war industries to private enterprise. Supporters of the Government contend that utilization of the national credit would cause inflation. That abjection has never been raised in those instances in which the Government has resorted to such a policy. To-day, the prices of many primary commodities and manufactured articles are fixed by the Government. The budget proposals will bring about a depression more severe than any which this country has yet experienced. Next year, the Government's financial requirements will be much greater, but it will then find that it will not be able to obtain extra revenue through taxation because that source will be exhausted. It will then be forced to utilize the credit of the nation to a far greater degree than is necessary to-day, and in such circumstances economic chaos may result. The Government should reconsider the whole of its present proposals, and reconstruct the budget by spreading the burdens more equitably. It can do this by reducing the taxes which it now proposes to levy on incomes up to £400, and transferring them to individuals and companies who are best able to pay them. Public opinion will eventually force the Government to abandon the basis of its present proposals, because the new taxes will bring about a depression from which it will take us 20 yeans to extricate ourselves. We shall then revert to the good old days. People will be able to buy half a sheep for a shilling, but the trouble will be that very few persons will be able to spare the shilling. 
The most reprehensible feature of the Government's budget proposals is that the burden which it will place upon the shoulders of those with low incomes will not be confined simply to income tax. The price-fixing tribunals set up by the Government constitute the greatest joke yet perpetrated on the people of this country. The Government might be able to fool some of the people some of the time, but it cannot fool all of the people the whole of the time. It is impossible to discover on what basis the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner arrives at his decisions. He takes all of his evidence  in camera.  Through price increases those on lower incomes are called upon to make good to profiteering companies increases of sales tax, excise, and import duties on various commodities. Recently, the prices of such commodities as beer, tobacco, matches and razor blades were increased. Immediately the excise duty on beer was increased the wealthy brewing interests applied to the Prices Commissioner to increase the retail price. Government supporters never tire of telling us that every one in the community must make sacrifices. They mean, apparently, that the workers and their families must make sacrifices, but not the wealthy interests, like the brewing and tobacco companies. When the excise duty on beer was increased by 9d. a gallon, the increase was passed on to the consumer. The majority buy their beer in 8-oz. glasses. The price of the 8-oz. glass was increased by Id., but this means an increase of ls. 8d. a gallon, or lid. more than the increase of excise duty. Thus the brewing companies are enabled to make profits out of increases of taxes. Similarly, the British- Australasian Tobacco Company Limited, which is one of the wealthiest concerns in this country, applied to the Prices Commissioner to increase the price of cigarettes by Id. a packet, and that of tobacco by 2d. an ounce. It is not surprising that the request was granted, but the increase was effected in a contemptible manner. The Commissioner announced the increase at midday on a Friday. The result was that most working men, who purchase their tobacco supplies for the following week on Friday nights, were obliged to pay the increased prices immediately. 
.Yes. The explanation offered by the Prices Commissioner for permitting storekeepers to sell old stock at the increased prices is to enable them to offset the loss which they will be obliged to face in respect of stock which they have on hand when prices are reduced in the future. That is simply begging the question, because we know that the bulk of the profit made out of increased prices goes to the tobacco companies and to the distributors. The average worker is sufficiently patriotic not to complain about heavier taxes so long as he knows that his sacrifice will be in the national interest. How different is the attitude of the big companies? So soon as the excise, or import duty on a commodity is increased, they immediately pass the increase on to the consumer. For all they care the Government could increase customs duty on all kinds of articles by 100 per cent. They know that they will be able to pass on the imposts, and will not lose in any way whatever. From what I know of the average Australian, he will be reluctant, despite these taxes, to abandon little luxuries in the form of a drink of beer or a smoke. He will still have his drink and his smoke. This will mean that less money will be available to purchase requirements for his household. Such a development must be seriously considered, particularly in view of the increased prices of foodstuffs. Whichever way we look at the matter, the burden of increased taxes and imposts in various forms on articles needed by the worker must fall most severely on large families. Whilst I admit that the larger families will, to a great degree, escape direct taxation, it cannot be denied that they will pay most in the form of indirect taxes. Because they will place many foodstuffs beyond the reach of the average worker, these taxes will tend to undermine the health of the community. We shall find that many families will not be able to purchase various medical supplies. Consequently, within a few years, we shall again be faced with the problem of malnutrition among our children. 
Action should be taken by the Government in connexion with the price of matches. Some time ago shopkeepers complained to me that they were unable to procure supplies of " Federal " matches. They asked the cause of the hold-up, and the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner said that so far as he knew supplies were not being held up. But we all know, and the Government knows, that at that time large stocks of matches were held in the warehouses. The match manufacturers approached the Government, no doubt with the support of the wholesalers, and asked that the price of matches be increased, and an increase of 2d. a dozen was allowed, making a total increase of 3d. a dozen since the outbreak of war. No doubt ample supplies of matches will be available to the public now that an increase of price has been granted. 
Recently, I asked the following question concerning the sales tax : - 
Does the Government collect sales tax weekly from the manufacturer, the distributor, the warehouse, or the retail shopkeeper? 
I knew who paid the sales tax ultimately, but I wanted to know how it was collected. In reply to my question, I was given a long rigmarole which did not answer my question. Under an equitablesales tax scheme, those persons who are now making a profit from the sales tax would he compelled to pay it. If the sales tax is being collected only from the manufacturer or distributor, the Government is being robbed, and were the system altered to provide for a more equitable distribution of the tax, probably sufficient additional revenue could be obtained to enable the budget to be recast. No business man should be permitted to make a profit on taxes, but that is what is being done at present by many commercial houses throughout Australia. The Government should be more straightforward in this matter, because there is nothing to hide. Surely it does not wish to penalize the public for the benefit of those whose only interest in the country is to make money. These exploiters do not care whether the working man is able to buy one or two loaves of bread, provided they are able to make large profits. This is a serious matter, and the Government should take some action. 
In reading various newspapers, it appears to me that those controlling them are concerned only with political strife; they are very interested in what is happening between the various political parties, and what may happen to the Government. However, a commendable article was published by one newspaper,  Truth.  It was a short but good article, and the newspaper should be thanked for publishing it. The article read - 
When I speak of the consumers, I refer to the masses of the people of this country who, although in receipt of low incomes, consume a large proportion of the foodstuffs and commodities upon which heavy taxes are imposed. 
Every one who smokes has to pay an additional 2d. an ounce on tobacco. 
Of course not, but the price of bread is affected by the flour tax, and, in fact, almost all foodstuffs are subject to indirect taxation in some form. 
The working people have to pay1s. 7d. a pound for butter in order that it may be sold overseas at11d. a pound. Surely that is a very heavy tax. 
The Government has not acted in the interests of the consumer. It has merely carried out the wishes of the private financial interests, and such persons asSir Geoffrey Whiskard, who said that the Australian people must get used to unemployment and heavy taxation. The Government, having fully explored the problem of raising revenue, discovered that by reducing the statutory exemption to £150 per annum, it could get at the working people very easily. Subsequently, it was decided to raise the exemption to £200, not because the Prime Minister had any sympathy for the poorer section, but because some more liberal members of his party impressed upon him that he must get off his high horse and make some concessions. Important concessions were made despite the fact that the Prime Minister had said that he regarded the Labour party's amendment as a challenge to the Government. When concessions were being made, the Government should have gone further and restored the statutory exemption to the previous figure of £250 per annum. I have already shown how the Government could get all the revenue it requires by means of additional taxes on companies. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 

When the Government went on the loan market last year it experienced difficulty in obtaining money. Despite the addresses broadcast by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  the Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  for the purpose of whipping up the enthusiasm of possible subscribers to the latest loan, the people have indicated clearly that, in their opinion, the money required should be raised by means of an expansion of credit. It cannot be fairly said that members of the Opposition have made the slightest suggestion that would hinder subscription to the loan, yet, to induce the people to subscribe £28,000,000, demonstrations by mechanized military units have been held in the streets of Sydney. If the Government does not resOrt to the use of properly controlled national credit to a greater degree than in the past, it will have no alternative but to impose taxes more drastic than any yet contemplated. Two years ago, when  Senator Darcey  advocated full use of national credit, he was scoffed at, but he deserves to be congratulated for the consistent manner in which he has expounded his views on government finance. 
It was unnecessary for him to convert any honorable senator on the Opposition side, because the policy of the Labour party provides for the utilization of national credit. The Government has lost prestige because of its taxation proposals. A faked picture of the interior of the House of Representatives was recently published in a newspaper, the figures of members being deliberately removed from the photograph, in order to give the impression that members were absent and that our democratic form of government is useless. Regardless of their political opinions, those who make subversive statements desire to do away with democratic government, and would be prepared to establish a dictatorship in Australia. They are antiAustralians and an ti -Britishers of the worst kind. 
A question was asked in the Senate to-day by  Senator Abbott  regarding the development of the oil shale deposits at Murrurundi, and he received a most evasive reply. For years the Wolgan Valley scheme was advocated strongly, but later it was decided by the Government to encourage the development of the deposits at Glen Davis. There are seven deposits of oil shale in New South Wales which are quite as valuable as that at Wolgan "Valley and Glen Davis, yet the Government has assisted in the exploitation of only one of them. 
If I had my way private enterprise would not be allowed to have anything to do with the development of our oil resources. All key industries should be in the hands of the Government. If the Government had control of the whole of the oil interests in Australia deposits such as that at Murrurundi would be developed. I have received the following letter from the Murrurundi Shale Oil Development Committee : - 25th September, 1940. 
Dear  Sir, 
Referring to our recent conversation here on the matter of the local shale oil deposits. 
Please find herewith copies of correspondence with the Director of Substitute Fuels in regard to the matter. 
Copy of letter, dated 12th August, 1940, from  Mr. P.  C. Holmes Hunt, Director of Substitute Fuels. Department of Supply and Development, 300 Collins-street, Melbourne, to the secretary, Murrurundi Shale Oil Development Committee. 
I am in receipt of your letter of 5th August, in which you ask that an investigation be made into the potentialities of the Temi shale field. 
I have no information relating to Murrurundi shale other than what has been published in official reports. In one such report,  Mr. Morrison  has stated that " little more than prospecting was done in the mine, and a very limited quantity was located in the retorts when operations were abandoned ". 
I have been given to understand that there is a small quantity of good shale yielding about 75 gallons of oil per ton, but that most of the deposit is of poor quality, yielding only 30 or 35 gallons. I have been informed also that the seam has been much disturbed by earth movements, by reason of which mining operations on any considerable scale would present difficulties. 
I note that you refer to a difference of opinion on the value of the deposit, and thai you have collected much information on the subject. 
It appears to me that what is most urgently needed, to give an indication of the possibility of exploiting Murrurundi shale, is an authentic geological opinion on the deposit, the probable reserves and likely cost of mining. On such subjects I must be guided bv officials of the New South Wales Department of Mines, and for this reason I suggest that it would be best for you to submit the information you have collected to that department. 
That advice was followed, and when  Mr. Rogers  submitted his report he commented in the following terms: - 
I have been given to understand that the seam has been much disturbed by earth movements, and that for this reason, mining operations on any considerable scale would present great difficulties. Probably for the same reason, no estimate has been given by Morrison of the reserves in the deposit. Altogether I am inclined to conclude from the limited amount of information available to me that the Murrurundi deposit is not an attractive one for commercial exploitation. 
It was stated that Murrurundi had no population. Therefore the local committee determined to secure from the Department of Supply and Development the report issued by  Mr. Rogers  which was forwarded to  Mr. McVey.  It read as follows: -   . . Although in his letter to the Minister,  Mr. V.  C. Thompson, (M.H.R. for New England, New South Wales) states that the mines had produced "large quantities of good grade shale oil", it is recorded by Morrison, that " little more than prospecting was done in the mine, and a very limited quantity was treated in the retorts when operations were abandoned ". 

 Mr. Rogers did not make an inspection of the locality; he depended entirely on the reports received by him. 
As a boy, I lived in Murrurundi for sometime, and I know that a considerable number of men were employed on the shale deposits there. I remember that there was an aerial tramway, or " flying-fox ", to convey the shale across the valley. 
The BritishAustralian Oil Company stopped operations because it was refining shale at other places. I remember particularly a noticeboard which appeared on the company's gate: in large letters were printed the words, " Men wanted ". Then followed some particulars as to the classes of men required. At the bottom were words which I shall never forget: "No Australian need apply". 
They were put there by the company; they were printed on the same board in the same way as were the words " Men wanted ". If honorable senators doubt my statement, I ask them to go to Newcastle and ascertain the facts for themselves. I know what was on the board, because I myself saw it. I know, too, what happened to the board ; it was shifted by Australian men. The company was determined that the Murrurundi deposits should not be exploited. The Government says that the works were closed down because the deposits were not profitable; I say that the major oil companies forced them to close. At one time over 300 men were working on the Murrurundi shale deposits,but after many of them had enlisted during the last war pressure was brought to bear, and the work stopped. 
The Government should not have allowed work to cease; it should have seen that the deposits were developed. 
The development of these deposits is not a matter for State governments. The National Parliament should control the oil deposits of Australia. 
That proposal was objected to because the Labour party believed that it was wrong to hand over the deposits to private enterprise. Although  Senator Dein  knows that that was the reason, he has repeated his statement in this Senate time after time. Whenever he does so, he utters a deliberate lie. 
Order! The honorable senator must withdraw that remark. 
Some time ago I asked whether a fine of £1,400 imposed on the Abco Bread Company Proprietary Limited had been paid. After waiting nine days, I was informed that the collection of the fine was a matter for the State government. 
No. I am not like the Minister who all his life has been seeking high prices and bounties for the commodities that he has for sale. These struggling market-gardeners have had a bad time. Last year a gardener whom I know planted seven acres of land with potatoes, and received a return of £4,000. This year from a similar area he received no return at all. The potatoes in respect of which they were fined were sold at 2d. a lb. to a retailer who sold them at 4d. a lb., thereby making 100 per cent, profit on the deal. The fine imposed on these small traders was collected on the spot, but the Government does not know yet whether the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited has paid the fine of £1,400 imposed on it. 
It would be paid to the Defence Department, because the company had an army contract for bread. " 
The company robbed the army, as will be seen from the address of the Crown Prosecutor. I known these market-gardeners. They are most generous in giving assistance to Red Cross funds, the Lord Mayor's Relief Fund and other such deserving objects. Yet they were fined for a trifling offence. Regulations should be framed so as to enable primary producers to receive higher prices for their produce at certain periods of the year, and the maximum prices allowed by the Prices Commissioner should be displayed prominently in the market where traders can see them. The differential treatment meted out to these men and to wealthy offenders against the law shows unjust discrimination. 
Of course I do. If I had my way, the price of everything would be fixed. Moreover, I should see that those who charged exorbitant prices were effectively dealt with.  [Extension of time granted.] 
Twenty five men employed in the mess at the Royal Australian Air Force station at Richmond have written to me complaining of their treatment. Their letters disclose a state of affairs warranting immediate investigation, not by officers at Richmond, but by officers from other air force stations. I do not, however, intend to pass those letters on to the Minister for Air  (Mr. McEwen)  because I fear that the writers would suffer the same fate as Aircraftman Reed, who dared to write to the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  and was court-martialled and dismissed from the Air Force for having done so. I was in the last war and I know what the private soldiers have to contend with from their officers. I also know that the only way in which to have grievances redressed is not by appeal to the men in command, but to a member of Parliament. When I was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force my application for a pension in respect of war disabilities was rejected, and before I could get justice I had to summon the help of the former member for Newcastle, the late  Mr. David  Watkins. The impressions I have gained from reading the letters sent to me by these aircraftmen is that the officers treat them as dirt under their feet. Among other things one letter, under the heading "Why the men complain," sets out the following grounds of complaint: - 
Because they have to work immediately after inoculation, often feeling very sick and often fainting. 
This concerns mess-men and stewards. They work the longest hours, are the lowest paid, are the most abused, and work shorthanded from six in the morning till seven at night. Night leave is of no use to them because of the train service. Some have done this for six months. All are going absent without leave and are being heavily penalized, discharged or sent to Holdsworthy prison camp, where there are two of them at present. 
Canteens are inefficient and smoking was not previously allowed on the air station, although now permitted twice a day. 
Man)7 aged men are drilled off their feet and some of them are, as a result., in hospital. 
The foregoing shows the snobbery and class distinction that exist in the fighting forces. A second instance of snobbery is the refusal of the Government to extend to the rank and file of the Militia the privilege of " wet " canteens which has been restored to the officers' and sergeants' messes. The Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  was asked - 
Will the Minister for the Army state whether it is a fact that it has been decided to establish wet canteens in militia camps for officers only. Can he give the reason for this discrimination? Does he intend to extend the privilege of wet canteens to all ranks? 
His reply was - - 
The decision of "the Government with respect to restoring a privilege which existed has no relation to the general subject of wet canteens in Militia camps. For many years the officers' and sergeants' messes have enjoyed the privilege of having liquor at their "messes. That privilege was, I understand, taken away under a misapprehension as to the legal position. Members of militia camps are volunteers. The Militia are called up under section 60 of the act, and not under section 11. In view of the fact that the privilege had been withdrawn under a misapprehension, I see no reason why it should not be restored. 
The Minister was guilty of evasion in his answer because he made no mention of all ranks. The men concerned are 22 or 23 years of age, and officers have pointed out that when they go into town they are apt to drink too much whisky and rum and become drunken nuisances, whereas, if beer were provided for them in their camps,- they would be content with a pint or two and go to camp picture shows or concerts. 
Twelve months ago a building for an automatic telephone exchange at Bankstown was completed. I thank the former Postmaster-General,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, for what he did to meet my urgent representations in connexion with that exchange. Unfortunately,, however, it is necessary that a building be completely dry before the delicate apparatus -is installed. While the building was being allowed to dry, it was occupied by the military. It is still in occupation, and Bankstown is no nearer getting its telephone exchange than it was when I first entered this Parliament. The Bankstown municipality in sufficiently important for the erection by the Army Department of a drill hall, and I hope that the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  will bring pressure to bear on his colleague, the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  in order to have the telephone exchange building vacated by the military so that the telephone exchange may be installed. 
All sorts of difficulties exist in Bankstown as the result of the failure of the Postal Department to provide adequate telephonic facilities there. For instance, one resident whose home is about 12 miles from the General Post Office applied on the 1st April, 1937, to have a telephone installed. All honorable senators, no doubt, have seen the Postal Department propaganda to the effect that a telephone can be installed in a home for 2s. a week. This man was told that if he cared to pay £6 a year rental, and £21 for the extension of the telephone line, he could be connected to the Padstow Park Exchange. The hours of service at that exchange are from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on week days, from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturdays, and no service is available on Sundays and holidays. Such a service as that is useless. 
About 4 miles from the Lakemba Exchange and within 2 miles of the proposed exchange at Bankstown. Many people in the district have had their telephones removed, because the hours of service are insufficient. For the miserable pittance which the Postal Department pays them, the attendants at part-time exchanges cannot be expected to .remain on the premises after the official hours, and the result is that in an emergency such as sickness, the telephone is useless. 
Earlier, I mentioned  Mr. Robb,  who wants a dictatorship in Australia, but I was told that the matter is  sui judice,  as a committee of inquiry is dealing with it. I do not expect to hear any more about the matter. I suppose that it will end like everything else which the Government handles. 
I am merely offering the comment that we shall hear no more about the matter. Persons who make subversive statements should be interned. 
I now propose to deal with the appointment of Edwin  Van-der-Vord  Nixon, under the National Security Regulations, as expert in charge of the control of profits in munition production. This gentleman was first appointed to the Board of Business Administration, his colleagues on that body being Essington Lewis Esq., the Right Honorable  Sir George  Pearce, Norman Myer, Esq., and the Honorable  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene.  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene is a director of the following thirteen public companies : Associated Paper and Pulp Mills Limited, Australian Knitting Mills Limited, Austral Silk and Cotton Mills Limited, Barnet Glass Rubber Company, Bradford Cotton Mills Limited, DunlopPerdriau Rubber Company, Electrolytic Zinc of Australia Limited, Emu Bay Railway Company, Felt and Textiles of. Australia Limited, North Broken Hill Limited* North Broken Hill Consolidated Limited, Yarra Falls Limited and Zinc Investments Limited. 
No, but I certainly should not appoint  Sir Walter  MassyGreene to that body. I should have got somebody else to do the job. 
Probably he is, but only from the viewpoint of those whose interests he represents. However, at the moment I wish to deal with the appointment of  Mr. Nixon.  He will have power to limit profits in accordance with ascertained losses.  Mr. Nixon  was associated with  Mr. Essington  Lewis. 
The point I make is that the Government virtually appointed a board of directors, and then appointed one of them as auditor of the business controlled by themselves. In other circumstances such action would be a public scandal. 
His appointment to that board was gazetted on the 20th March, .1940. 
I object to the appointment of men who are interested in. so many private companies to such positions when the services of other men possessing equal ability, but with no private business ties, could have been obtained. Many people in New South Wales are concerned about this matter. I am not raising it merely for the sake of talking about it. I again ask the Senate to reconsider the case of Captain T. P. Conway. On a previous occasion I stated that  Mr. Spender,  when Treasurer, informed me by letter that he would forward the amount of £100 to  Mr. Conway.  At that time I was told that  Mr. Spender  did not make any such promise.  Mr. Spender's  letter to me was as follows: - 
I am in receipt of your letter of the 10th instant, regarding the question of the payment of an amount of£ 100 awarded to  Mr. T.  P. Conway. I shall arrange for consideration to be given to this matter with a view to payment of the sum in question being made as early as possible. 
I forwarded that letter to  Mr. Conway,  and I suggest that from it he could draw only one conclusion, namely, that  Mr. Spender  would forward the sum of £100 to him as early as possible. I have now received the following letter from exSenator Gardiner :  - 
Dear  Senator, 
I have been thinking of the reference to the Conway case, at the close of the last Parliament. And if my memory serves me right  Senator McBride's  speech left the impression that you had misrepresented Spender. In your own interests you must remove that impression. You might draft some questions to McBride to show that he or Spender have tried to misrepresent you. 
But the flouting of the Senate by the Government is a very serious matter, and a carefully drafted motion should get you enough votes to carry it. You might get likely supporters to help you draft a motion. Not that you need help, but I found that getting in touch with a member, asking advice beforehand meant a supporter when the motion came before the Senate. 
Ex-Senator Gardiner has asked me to request the Senate to reconstitute the select committee to inquire into his case. He feels that he can now place before the committee material which he previously overlooked. 
No. However, I stand by what I said previously concerning  Mr. Chifley  in this matter. As the Senate intends to adjourn this week for the recess, I doubt whether it will have time to consider the request which I now make on Conway's behalf. However, I feel that a majority of honorable senators would favour the re-constitution of the select committee. Should it be reconstituted, I should like to have the opportunity to ask  Mr. Spender  what conclusion he would draw, if he were Conway, from the letter forwarded to Conway. Since forwarding that letter to 
Conway I have received about twenty letters from him urging me to present his case in the matter. I have received no word from  Mr. Spender,  or from the Treasury, since the 12th October, 1939, on which date  Mr. Spender  wrote the letter which I have just read. I should like to know why the sum of £100 has not yet been paid to Conway. 
From that letter Conway came to the conclusion, and I think rightly so, that  Mr. Spender  intended to forward the sum of £100 to him. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
This motion affords honorable senators an opportunity to  embark  upon a discussion of various subjects. It is my intention to address myself to what I believe to be the most important subjects claiming the attention of both branches of this legislature at the present juncture. With the exception of brief references to minor matters such as wet or dry canteens in military camps, and the case of Captain T. P. Conway, all the speeches made so far have been devoted entirely to the war situation. We have assembled this week after what I regard as a political crisis which could have brought about very serious results. That honorable senators on both sides of the chamber have been aware of the serious possibilities is shown by tie tone of their speeches. Failure to reach a satisfactory conclusion would have suggested the complete failure of parliamentary government in Australia. Today we are fighting for the survival of democracy, the end of which would he certain should our enemies succeed. It is our duty to support the Government to the fullest degree, even at the risk of sacrificing some principles - which perhaps are not vital but in which we strongly believe - in the hope that we can enable the parliamentary system to function satisfactorily. One of the most profound statements made in recent times was made by  President  Roosevelt who said, " Let us try to make democracy work ". Happenings of the last few days  in this city have enabled the democratic system of government to work again. We had almost reached a position in which circumstances would have rendered parliamentary government unworkable, and I applaud a statement by  Mr. Curtin  published in to-day's  Sydney Morning H erald  which sums up the position admirably. This is no time for party bickerings or recriminations as to who is right and who is wrong, and  Mr. Curtin  described the situation very aptly, when he said - 
I had in mind, and kept in mind, and will keep in mind, the obligation we entered into to make Parliament workable, and that the establishment of the War Council, as authorized by the Federal conference, was for the purpose of enabling Labour to give its beet in support of the war effort. 
That is the statement of a man who is sincere in his effort to make the democratic system workable. During the past few days a vast responsibility has been cast upon this Parliament. We have seen interest in our State Parliaments dwindle because the only subject of vital importance to Australia to-day is the necessity to win the war. It is everybody's desire that Australia should make its best effort in this struggle, and that effort can be made only through the instrumentality of the national parliament. I am not greatly impressed by the amount of money that has been expended or is to be expended so long as this country is receiving value for that money. It is no answer to those who have been critical of this expenditure to say, " This is what we are doing. We are spending so many millions of pounds ". What we want to know, and what I have been urged to do by organizations in South Australia to ascertain, is the value we are receiving and the contributions we are making to relieve the burden which has been inflicted on our Empire. We can be critical on this point without doubting the sincerity of the Government or questioning its capacity to deal with the matter, there is a vast war machine to equip and maintain. When the armies of a country are set on the march and the vast wheels of war-time industry are turning, it is very difficult indeed for an administration to be as economical as it would be in normal times, and, as one honorable senator said, when we are deriving extraordinarily high revenues from the people of this country we, as trustees for these people, should see that the money is expended to the very best advantage. 
I have been fifteen years in this National Parliament, and during that period we have been through a financial and economic depression; but what measures have we passed of national importance? I recall only one - the Financial Agreement. As  Senator Courtice  said, the representatives of the people in this Parliament have a heavy responsibility, and their first duty should be to assist in securing the safety of this country. Have we lived up to that responsibility? I say that we have not; that fact should be evident to all of us to-day. I support the sentiments expressed by  Senator Keane;  we have been recreant to our trust; we cannot even protect our own shores from those who menace our sea-borne commerce. 
We would have been in a much better position to protect our shores had we followed the advice of those who in past years advocated that, in co-operation with other empire countries, Australia should build up a navy capable of defending its own shores. That could have been accomplished with an expenditure which would have been only a fraction of our present war commitments. At that time it was estimated that a battleship, with its attendant smaller craft, would have cost £12,000,000, two battleships would have cost £22,000,000, and three battleships £32,000,000. To-day battleships are the saviours of the Empire, and have proved almost invulnerable when attacked from the air. The presence of several capital ships in Australian waters would have ensured the safety of our shipping. We have a population of 7,000,000 persons, but we have yet to realize our nationhood. We have a vast continent to defend, a mighty heritage, but what are we doing? We are not measuring up to our first and most important responsibility, the protection of our own people and our own land. 
There would be no raiders if we had battleships. Certainly we have cruisers in Australian waters, but what would happen to us should a pocket battleship venture near to our shores? It takes at least two cruisers to deal with a pocket battleship even under the most favorable conditions. In co-operation with the British navy an Australian navy should have been built up to such a strength that our trade routes could never have been endangered by the presence of raiders. Had that been done the people of Australia would never have been subject to the fears that have been aroused by recent events on our coasts. 
It was sunk because Australia was bound by its international obligations to disarm. Such obligations do not mean very much to some persons; but we are of the British race and are apt, foolishly perhaps, to place great faith in them. However, that has always been our standard and I sincerely trust it will continue to be so. At the time of the sinking of the H.M. A.S  Australia  I thought it was unwise - perhaps that was due to my Scotch instinct -but we werebound by the Washington Naval Treaty, to which this country was a signatory. We have since had opportunities to effect a remedy of the position, but no action has been taken. It is gratifying to know that Australia's sons are serving with such distinction in the air. Even now we should endeavour to make a greater contribution to the sea-power of the Empire which has had to go cap in hand and ask the United States of America for obsolete destroyers, in order to defend our ships and the lives of our people. The trade routes of the Empire are England's lifeline. However, we regard with satisfaction this close understanding and alliance between the English-speaking races. Had an Empire-wide naval defence scheme been inaugurated and contributions made by New Zealand, South Africa and the Commonwealth towards naval security in the Pacific, something worth while in the interests of the Empire naval defence would have been achieved. While we are quarrelling as to whether or not certain minor legislation shouldbe passed we are losing sight of the fact that if we armed ourselves as we should, there would be very little danger of attack, and our commerce would be safe from raiders. In that regard I feel that we have been remiss, and even at this late hour we should adopt a policy to help the Motherland by building ships. It is useless to start building a mercantile marine. First of all we must have naval vessels to protect our trade routes. That should be the first concern of a Commonwealth Government. We must deal with the terror which is facing us at the present time. Perhaps I take a too optimistic view of this country, but somehow I cannot agree with those who to-day are talking about the terrible plight in which we shall be after the war. If right is to triumph, this war will be won by the British Empire, and when peace has been secured, Australia will be a bigger, better and brighter country than it has ever been. No other country will rival our land, because of the great natural resources with which it is endowed. We have everything that is necessary to provide a comfortable existence. As a nation we are . still in our swaddling clothes, although we have some great achievements to our credit. 
We have a wonderful country and with agricultural and industrial expansion due to some degree to the results achieved by the Council for Scientific and IndustrialResearch and other organizations, our national life should be quickened. Undoubtedly, we shall have to pay heavily for the war. but, for the generations yet to come, I think that there is a tremendous future. We are to-day, perhaps, at the turning-point in the war. Our allies, the Greeks, have inflicted severe punishment on one of the Axis partners. They have, at least, interfered with one of the spokes of the Italian wheel, and another spoke in North Africa is feeling the effect of British arms. I have always considered that the Italian nation, as a whole, was reluctant to go to war with 
Britain. The ruling power in Italy drove that country to war under the most degrading circumstances, when it thought that France had been brought to its knees, and would have to give up its valuable possessions on the African continent, which the Italians have long coveted. 
A statement was made by  Senator Keane  that the government with which I was associated tried to abolish the system of industrial arbitration. The honorable senator knows full well that that government never intended to do anything of the kind. What it desired to do was to provide an improved system of arbitration. After many years the honorable senator is now a repentant sinner. Having carried the flag of victory in the town of Bendigo, and having told the people that the government with which I was associated tried to destroy the system of arbitration, he now assures us that he would jettison the whole system! That is a complete somersault. He almost used a phrase employed by  Sir John  Latham, who once spoke of the " entangling legalisms " of arbitration. My friend,  Senator Spicer,  and I are entirely in agreement in regard to the present system. We have always advocated negotiations between employers and employees. Strikes over minor matters are to be greatly deplored. I agree largely with  Senator Keane  that the system could be improved, if assessors, who understood the conditions from the points of view of both employers and employees, were attached to the court, but the final decision as to the hours and conditions of work to be awarded should rest with the judge. I am glad that a Minister for Labour and National (Service has been appointed, and I hope that, when he has had time to settle down to his new work, good results will be achieved. The present Government should be given a chance to prove its ability. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  has had little opportunity to do a big job, because of the constant party heckling and manoeuvring for position. If the Government is to make the war effort of Australia successful it must have a period of political peace. 
I listened with pleasure to  Senator Spicer's  references to credit expansion. I do not desire to hurt the feelings of any body who holds strong views regarding this matter. I have no doubt that the Government will make use of national credit as far as its advisers consider wise. No doubt, the Commonwealth Bank and the other banks will do all in their power to assist the Government, but I warn it against expansion of credit beyond a certain point. This method of finance has been tried in the past. 
The honorable senator deludes himself by saying that. I believe  Senator Darcey  to be sincere in his views . on financial matters, but if he realized what the effect of expansion of credit to excess would be, he would be the last member of this chamber to advocate it. 
Currency theories were expounded by social reformers at least 2,000 years ago. 
In the year 48 B.C., a Chinese Emperor, Wang  Mang,  set into motion many social ideals and reforms, amongst which was an attempt at fixation of prices by means of currency control. He reorganized the coinage system, and made provision for State loans without interest, and for the purchase by the State of surplus stocks of goods. However, the scholarly Emperor's plans were doomed to disappointment. Insurrections broke out and his innovations were followed by more, rather than less, disorder than at the commencement of his reign. Finally, rebellion overwhelmed the reformer and he was killed in his capital, while his dynasty and his experiments crumbled. It is also recorded in the pages of  Marco Polo  that the Emperor  Kubla-Khan,  in 1260, issued large quantities of paper money in parts of China which had been subdued by his Mongol armies. However, the chronicler laconically remarks - 
These issues were without specific limit as to numbers, and thus became in time depreciated below the level of the coins after which they were named and for which the law compelled them to pass in the payment of debts. 
Then there was John Law, a Scottish adventurer, who, in 1716, became manager of the General Bank of France. This had at first performed the ordinary functions of a trading bank and was a great success. Law proceeded with the development of what he called " The System ", under which the issue of shares rose from the value of 6,000,000  livres  to 12,000,000,000  livres  in three years. For a while everything boomed. However, people soon began to demand anything possessing a stable element of value, and sold their shares to buy coin, houses and land. The result, of course, was a tremendous increase of prices, and consequent economic distress and confusion. A vast number of bank shares had to be destroyed and the notes were reduced to half their normal value. Law ended his career fittingly enough in Venice, where he had a casino. 
Honorable senators may have come across the expression of contempt, " Not worth a continental ". This phrase has its origin in the issue of paper currency by the Continental Congress of the United States of America which between 1775 and 1779 issued about $240,000,000 in bills of credit. As is always the case, prices rose, the need for money became more and more pressing, and no alternative was at first seen but to respond to the demands of the people and print more of them. 
In 1923,  Major Douglas  came on the scene, offering the same sort of relief from the troubles which he saw ahead of the nation. Germany experienced the same difficulty. "When that sort of thing gets out of control, it cannot be stopped; it is more dangerous to this country than is Hitler himself. 
Evidently the honorable senator has had little experience, and does not know what money really is. Unlimited bank credit is a greater menace to the safety of Australia than is anything else I know of. I can understand men toying with it because they think that it can be controlled; but no one has ever yet been able to control it. It cannot be controlled. Do honorable senators think that the people of Germany went to their doom willingly? The trouble that arose in Germany had its foundation in the inflation of the currency of that country. It was brought about in the first place in an attempt to get rid of the burden of debt. It was done deliberately. But what happened? The people who had real money came along, and because they had real money, they were able to buy the best sites in Berlin and other parts of Germany. Is it any wonder that the hearts of the German people became bitter? 1 do not justify the cruelty that has since been perpetrated, but that was the cause of the trouble. To-day, that inflationary process is going on in another form. There will be another crash when they cannot obtain real money from other countries. Inflation of the currency of this country would be most dangerous. What is the position as disclosed by the Commonwealth Bank as far as the position is ever disclosed? Depositors' balances with the Savings Bank Branch of the Commonwealth Bank disclose assets amounting to £140,533,538 ; the contingency account and other liabilities total £8,052,126, and the reserve fund is set down at £2,899,944. Against that it has coin and cash balances and money at short call amounting to £5,969,121, government securities and other securities total £107,690,904, whilst securities held by municipalities and other public authorities total £33,722,719. Those investments are made up of little amounts paid into the savings bank week by week by people with small incomes. The total of those small sums is considerable, and enables the bank to lend out large sums to governments, municipalities and other public bodies. The bank's balance-sheet shows investments in British colonial and government securities, including treasury-bills, total £34,863,761. That is a considerable sum. I repeat that the money that is lent by the Savings Bank is the small man's money. It is real money deposited with the bank, and then lent out by it to governments and other bodies for the purpose of carrying on various activities in this country. I have heard a good deal about credit expansion, but I shall not discuss the subject at length to-night. I shall conclude by reminding the Senate of the words of Emerson - 
Wise men for the most part are silent at present and good men powerless; the senseless vociferate and the heartless govern; while all social law and Providence are dissolved by the enraged agitation of a multitude among whom every villain has a chance of power, every simpleton of praise, and every scoundrel of fortune. 
That seems to sum up the European situation to-day. 
 The position confronting the world to-day gives reason for serious thought. The huge expenditure on defence which the budget contemplates convinces me that the money should be raised in accordance with the policy of the Labour party, which has already been fully expounded by honorable senators sitting on this side of the chamber. I shall not cover the ground which has already been covered, but shall pass on to refer to the subject of banking. I describe bankers as lions in the path which stops progress. I am disturbed at the proposed expenditure on defence, but if it is necessary for the effective prosecution of the war funds must be provided. No longer dare we muddle along with half measures; we must become a wellequipped military nation. Particularly must we give serious thought to the growing menace to Australia from mines around our coasts. Our defences must be strengthened : we must increase the production of aircraft, high explosives, tanks and big guns, and organize industry in order to retain the freedom which we now enjoy. This is a mechanical age, and the war now in progress is a mechanized war. For the production of our war requirements, we need more steel, and therefore I urge that the iron ore deposits at Yampi Sound should be developed. The time has arrived when the embargo on the exportation of iron ore should be lifted. We must look ahead and prepare for the proper development of this country when the war is over. The producers of iron and steel should realize that their works can be profitable in times of peace as well as when the nation is at war. The Government's policy embraces the encouragement of the shipbuilding industry in this country. If that proposal is to mean anything we must have steel for the building of the ships.  Dr. Woolnough  reported that the Yampi Sound deposit contained 150,000,000 tons of ore, but we arc told that a market cannot be found for it. That is to be regretted. I urge the lifting of the embargo.  Dr. Woolnough's  report also stated that the coal obtainable in Western Australia is not suitable for the melting of the Yampi Sound iron ore. He suggested that the Government should get in touch with the authorities who control the coal-mines in Queensland, and in that way develop two new industries. I believe that electric power can be produced from the coal obtainable at Collie, Western Australia, and that that power could be used in smelting the iron ore from Yampi Sound. I draw attention to the following extract from a newspaper published in Western Australia - 
In any case Australia will not bc playing an effective part in the Empire's war until it is producing in its own factories vast quantities of guns,  warplanes,  and munitions. The supply of armaments from other countries might be wholly cut off, so we should regard ourselves as being dependent on our own resources. 
We have the factories, the engineering shops, the skilled men, and the raw material; and we can make ourselves self-dependent in war material if the Government will cut out of its dictionary the words " impracticable " and " impossible ". The time for such talk has gone. What is needed now is a stern and resolute determination to do the job that is confronting us. 
I have read with interest a pamphlet prepared by  Senator Abbott,  and believe that his proposals, if generally adopted, would bring justice to the world. The honorable senator is on the right track. Recently I received a lettergram from a relative in Brisbane informing me that his wife had presented him with twin sons. Naturally he was pleased, but at the foot of the lettergram there was a sentence which revealed what many people are thinking. It read: "I suppose that after another 25 years they will be fighting another war ". An expanded shipbuilding industry would be of great benefit to Australia which has all the skilled men and materials needed. The industry, however, should be diversified and not confined to Sydney and Melbourne. I am pleased that South Australia is to have its share. Queensland also has the facilities for shipbuilding, and wooden vessels are well within the capacity of Western Australian shipbuilders. If possible Tasmania should also share in the work. 
Even in times of peace additional ships are required for our coastal and island trade and their construction would keep our shipyards steadily at work. Between 1919 and 1937 Australian shipping companies had built overseas 137,238 tons of shipping. In the same period the Commonwealth Government and State governments had 1.4,153 tons built overseas. At least 94 ships were constructed for private interests, and 16 for the Government. All of these could have been built  in  Australia. 
All ships which earn revenue solely  in  Australian waters should be built  in  Australia. 
The late Brigadier Street when he was Acting Minister for the Navy said that it was possible that Australian naval shipyards would soon undertake the construction of the smaller naval vessels for the British Admiralty. He said - 
The Admiralty has shown its interest in out  naval  shipbuilding potentialities by making inquiries about the possibility of building small local defence vessels here. If it decides  to  do so, requirements will be fitted in with the vessels now being constructed for the Royal Australian Navy. The product of Australian shipbuilding is well up to British standard and results obtained from the escort vessels which have come into service have been most satisfactory and can be taken as a measure of the efficiency of Australian workmanship and careful and satisfactory supervision. 
We should be proud of that. We have  in  this country men with the necessary ability to build ships equal to the best in the world. It is necessary that the shipbuilding industry be expanded so that work can be provided for the men who return from war service overseas. 
During the time the Cockatoo Dockyard has been in existence 115 ships aggregating 211,000 tons have been ordered from overseas builders compared with 26 vessels, mostly ordered for the Navy, built at Cockatoo. For the last five years, Australian shipping companies have placed orders overseas for more than 30 ships worth about five million pounds. Shipbuilding has been sadly neglected in Australia for the last few years, despite the fact that we have the men arid the equipment to do the work with credit. Why should vessels required for the Australian service be built overseas ? 
That may be the reason. The virtue of a shipbuilding industry is that it is continuous. I have never been to England, but I understand that the dockyards there are continually working either on building or on repairs. 
If there be one country where trade depends upon sea transport, it is Australia, and shipbuilding should be one of our principal industries. 
We should have more docking facilities. The graving dock to be built in Sydney will be vulnerable to attack. Each State should have its own docking facilities. The naval base at Fremantle which was reported as being suitable was condemned by British experts and has since been lying idle. The Minister for the  Army  (Mr. Spender)  said at the launching of Australia's newest destroyer that since the last war the shipbuilding industry in Australia has been allowed to languish. He added' that shipbuilding is an industry in which work would be provided for returned soldiers. 
Concentration of Commonwealth, State, and other developmental works in crowded industrial areas of New South Wales and Victoria is undesirable. Particular attention should be given to South Australia, Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania where the necessary raw materials can be produced. Industries must be established in areas where they will be subjected to the least degree of risk from attack. 
In all States oil-storage tanks and electricity power-houses are conspicuously placed near the sea front where they provide attractive targets for any enemy aircraft. That policy should be changed. 
In answer to a question to-day, I was told that the numbers of men employed in munitions works were as follow: - New South Wales 5,859, Victoria, 16,512, and South Australia 1,761. That shows how the eastern States are sharing in the benefits that accrue from the production of munitions, whereas the less populous States, like Western Australia and Tasmania, and to a degree Queensland, are overlooked. Admittedly a munitions annexe is nearing completion at Midland Junction, Western Australia, but I understand that owing to the volume of work to be undertaken in the eastern States there may be difficulty in obtaining a .sufficient number of skilled hands to man that annexe. If that be so the Commonwealth should follow the example of New Zealand and place a ban on the departure overseas of young  men and on the transfer of men from State to State. 
I have: been told that there will be difficulty in obtaining skilled fitters and turners. But the technical school in the west is going ahead rapidly, and the feared labour shortage may not result. 
I regret that in this budget small consideration has been given to the pensioners. Pensioners are entitled to at least 25s. a week. 
That is the past; we must progress. The present invalid and. old-age pension is not sufficient to give to the recipients that measure of assistance to which they aTe entitled. The small increase conceded by the Government, as the result of the stand taken by the Labour party in this Parliament, will be filched from the old people by way of increases of prices of commodities resulting from the sales tax. I have had much to do with the old-age pensioners in Western Australia. Many of them find it very difficult to make ends meet on the present pension. We should do all in our power to compensate the pioneers who blazed the trail in developing this continent. 
Every honorable senator will agree that the Commonwealth Government should take over the control of public education from the States. The difficulties arising from six different systems of education are obvious. I propose to mention one which, whilst it may not seem to be very important to some honorable senators, is of paramount concern to parents with large families who cannot afford to purchase school books for their children. In Western Australia, and I have no doubt that similar circumstances exist in the other- States, parents find that when a boy or girl passes to a higher class the books which they used in their former class are useless to their younger brothers and sisters. I know of many families consisting of four and five children who are obliged to pay a much as 17s. 6d. for books for each child attending public schools. 
The Commonwealth should advance sufficient money to the farmer to enable him to pay off his first mortgage, accepting transfer of the mortgage. On money thus made available it could charge 1 per cent, interest, and crystallize principal repayments until after the war. The lending of money on this basis of security is not inflation. I congratulate the Government upon its decision to advance an extra 3d. a bushel on wheat from the No. 2 Pool. My idea was 6d. I can  only  hope that the various State governments will distribute that money only to those farmers who are really in need of assistance. 
In our national economy we must recognize the importance of the wheat-farmer. We depend on wheat for our bread. Australia has been so blessed by nature that we are able to produce every commodity we need. We cannot do too much to lighten the lot of the primary producers, many of whom are tilling the. soil in the face of great difficulties. Owing to adverse weather conditions and unfavorable prices during recent years, the average wheat-grower cannot now afford the simplest luxury. For this reason I am pleased that the Government has consented to provide 3d. a bushel from the No. 2 Pool, although I am somewhat disappointed that it did not grant, the Labour party's request for an advance of 6d. 
The Government should organize industry in order to provide continuity of employment for our people. It should stabilize the standard of living for all families at a reasonable level. This is an essential plank of the  Labour  party's platform. We wish to improve, not only the material, but also the spiritual and intellectual standard of our people. In the present crisis we must co-ordinate work on the land, in the mines, and in our transport services. In this war labour is prepared to give its all; we ask that capitalism also give its all. The sacrifices arising out of the war must be shared by all. I quote the following paragraph from the Western Australian  Sunday Times :  - 
Western Australia includes about one-third of the land area of the Commonwealth. Its isolation from the larger centres of Australian population; its great length of exposed coastline; its comparatively few towns of importance and the great distances separating them - all these considerations make urgent and imperative a greater spread of people, a greater progress in secondary industries, and a greater readiness to give our own factories the preference in our own market than has marked our history. 
Let it be understood that these things are not now so much ambition as they are stark necessity. We cannot be safe in any part of the Commonwealth without secondary industries in time of war. Nor can we in times of peace find employment for our people unless we have the workshops in which they may labor. 
I put it to the people that the man and the woman who seek customers for their industry in this State must themselves be customers for the goods which the State produces. This is sound policy for Western Australia. It is also sound policy for all Australia. 
Those observations support my earlier remarks concerning the need to organize secondary industry on a sound basis with a view to providing employment for all of our people. I can see no reason why big trading concerns in Victoria and New South Wales should not establish branches of their industries in Western Australia. However, the present attitude of such companies towards Western Australia is deplorable. When any industry is started in a small way in Western Australia, big eastern companies immediately lower the prices of their goods in order to crush the local industry. They invariablysucceed in doing so. In order to drive local jam manufacturers out of business H. J. Jones Proprietary Limited reduced the price of its jam by1d. or 2d. a tin, and immediately it had crippled the local factories it again raised its prices. 
Labour is not concerned with the reshaping of maps and territories. We shall strive for the establishment of peace, security and safety in the economic order. We refuse to abandon our conception of democracy. We shall oppose dictatorships, whether they attempt to usurp the rights of the people from within, or attack the nation from without. National unity is imperative in time of war. At the same time, however, we shall fight every attempt by profiteers to exploit our people. Whilst we shall co-operate fully in the nation's war effort, we shall not relent in our opposition to armament rings. Our man-power must be drawn on heavily for war purposes, but, at the same time, the instruments of production and exchange must not be allowed to fall into the hands of a privileged class. Whilst we shall do our utmost to oppose the external enemy, we shall do nothing to strengthen the forces of capitalism within Australia. We say to the Government that when exploitation breeds discontent, the exploiter, and not the discontented must be dealt with ; the cause, and not the effect, must be attended to. 
In conclusion, I again appeal to the Government to establish the shipbuilding industry. I admit that Western Australia does not possess facilities equal to those existing in Victora, New South Wales and South Australia for the construction of vessels of a heavy tonnage. However, Western Australia, and the other States, should he given every opportunity to tender for contracts for the construction of smaller craft, such as motor launches which are likely to be required in considerable numbers. Such launches are required, for instance, to handle traffic from seaplanes. In the fog of uncertainty which has descended upon the world, our people desire nothing so much as security. In the past, life was largely a matter of competition between individuals; to-day the struggle is between nations. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Dein)  adjourned. 
I draw the attention of honorable senators to the very unsatisfactory replies which I receive to practically every question which I ask on public finance. 
To-day, I asked the following question :  - 
What is the amount of treasury-bills issued since the war began? 
The reply I received was that the Government intended to continue to issue treasury-bills. That answer has nothing to do with the " amount of treasury-bills issued ", but it is in accordance with the general practice of keeping such information from me. I have been attacked consistently during the budget debate for my views on treasury-hills and finance generally, although I have explained more than once the trickery that is indulged in, in connexion with such bills. Treasury-hills are merely undated IOU's, upon which the banks can issue to the Government notes worth six times the value of the IOU's.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan accused me of saying many things which I did not say. I know what I am talking about, and it is a great pity that the honorable senator when dealing with finance does not know what he is talking about. I have been in this Senate for two and a half years, and I am sorry to think that my efforts have been wasted. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! the honorable senator is not entitled to make another budget speech on this motion. 
I am merely drawing attention to unsatisfactory replies which I have received to my questions. I submit that all honorable senators are entitled to have full and accurate answers supplied to their inquiries. Last session, I asked if it were the intention of the Government to borrow money to finance the war, and, if so, 'was it aware that such a policy would result in disaster to the credit of Australia. I received a "Yes-No" or rather a "No-No" reply, stating that the answer to the first part of the question was " No ", and the answer to the second part was " see answer to No. I ". My views on finance have been misrepresented throughout the entire budget debate. 
Order! The honorable senator is not entitled to reopen discussion on the budget at this stage. 
The honorable senator must not refer to the budget debate. 
.- I should like to ventilate a matter which goes to the very root of the system which the Government is using to conduct the war, namely the practice of allowing representatives of companies, tendering for the supply of materials to the Government, to sit on advisory panels. This is a serious matter. I have a communication from persons connected with the laundry industry complaining that  Mr. Robert  Lilley, who is the head of the firm of Robert Lilley and Company, laundry equipment suppliers, of Melbourne, is a member of an advisory panel.  Mr. Lilley  has been appointed to advise Army Headquarters on the best means of handling army laundry in Australia. There is no doubt about the ability or the honesty of the gentleman to whom I refer, but the laundry industry considers that it is a mistake to appoint a laundry equipment supplier to such a position. Tenders were called by the military authorities for laundry machinery of various kinds, and one of the tenderers was Robert Lilley and Company. Persons engaged in the laundry business consider that as  Mr. Lilley  has a knowledge of the Defence Department's requirements the firm of which he is a member should not be permitted to tender. 
Yes. That is the point. Tenders were called, not publicly, but by private letter to some suppliers. In the circumstances that was particularly unfortunate. The machinery required included one hydroextractor, and one soap and soda dissolver, and Robert Lilley and Company's price of £132 8s. was accepted. The fact that the principal of that company, Captain; Robert Lilley, is a member of the advisory panel which controls army ordnance tenders, is pointed out in a letter signed  by the editor-in-chief of the journal representing the laundry trade. The writer also states that it is time the matter was ventilated in Parliament, and an investigation made. I do not suggest that there is anything dishonest in letting the contract, but safeguards are provided. For instance, the restrictions relating to the letting of local government contracts could be imposed. The present system is wrong, and should not continue. 
It was the desire of those making the protest that the matter should be made public. I do not wish to argue as to whether or not that is the best method, but I do not see that any harm can be done. 
 I direct attention to the following advertisement which appeared in last Saturday's  Canberra Times - 
Once again, I bring before the Senate the subject of magnesium production in Australia. I regret that it has been necessary to deal with this matter on so many occasions, and I suggest to the Minister that if he were to give me the information which I desire, it would save further trouble. He has endeavoured to create the impression that he has not the information which I seek, but he knows a good deal more of this subject than he will admit. Considerable correspondence has passed between various Government departments and the company producing magnesium, and matters reached such a stage that the Prime Minister admitted that his replies were not authentic, and did not give a complete statement of the position. In a letter to the manager of the company the right honorable gentleman said - 
I have caused a further estimate to be made of the total Australian requirements, including metal and power, and the estimate now given to me is 200 tons per annum. Another official estimate is 300 tons per annum. In the light of this new information, I have asked  Sir Colin  Fraser to reopen the whole question with your company and I would be pleased if you would take up this matter again with me. 
Previously, the Prime Minister stated that requirements of the Government totalled only  2  or 3 tons, but he has now admitted that the figure was based on the quantity of magnesium used by the Government in aeroplane construction. I conferred with the representatives of the company and the Premier of Tasmania, and the latter telegraphed to the Prime Minister as follows: - 
Many endeavours have been mads to interest Commonwealth Government in production of magnesium from raw materials available in Tasmania. Local company on June 27th submitted to  Sir Colin  Fraser, Director of Materials, Ministry of Munitions, full details of proposals, but it seems, that no progress has since  been made. May I ask whether you could agree to arrange conference in Melbourne between Commonwealth technical officer! and representatives of company, as in this way it may tie found possible to reach finality. 
The Prime Minister replied to the telegram in the following terms: - 
Your telegram let November. Have arranged for  Sir Colin  Fraser to re-examine whole question of magnesium production and have suggested to the company that they contact  Sir Colin  on matter. 
Previously, the Minister for Supply and Development had stated, in reply to a question asked by me in the Senate, that the Government had requested the company to submit proof that it could produce magnesium on a commerical basis. On the 19th June the company submitted an eight-page report dealing with the details of the electrolytic process which it intended to use. This report was forwarded to  Sir David  Rivett and was subsequently shown to  Sir Colin  Fraser. On the 27th June, the company wrote a further five-page report to  Sir Colin  Fraser dealing with its proposals for the establishment of the industry and giving an estimate of the capital cost, the time required to complete the plant and reach the production stage, and the cost of producing magnesium. On the 38th May, a definite offer was made to- the Aircraft Production Commission in the Department of Supply and Development. All that I desire to know from the Minister is the opinion of his expert advisers as to whether magnesium can be produced economically in Tasmania. Surely the disclosure of that information would not hamper the war effort. I understand that conferences have taken place regarding the matter. If a conference has not been held, I ask the Minister to convene one, and to invite Tasmanian senators and members of the House of Representatives to attend. If the Minister does not supply me with definite, information to-night, I shall have to refer to the matter again. 
 Reference has been made by  Senator Clothier  to the lease of Barton House, Canberra. I hope  that the  department will be successful  in  securing a suitable person to lease that establishment and to conduct it in a satisfactory manner. The terms of  the  lease will be of such  nature  that the  interests of  the  guests will be safeguarded as set  out  in the report of the Public Works Committee. This hostel  has  been built, as recommended by the Public Works Committee, to meet the needs of a certain class of public servants. The department is not anxious to extend its activities as a hostel owner, in view of its experience in conducting one or two hotels. If honorable senators will examine  the  accounts of the Hotel Canberra, and consider the financial position  that  resulted from government administration,  it  will be seen that hotel management is best left to private enterprise. It would 'be foolish to expect an establishment like the Hotel Kurrajong to show a profit, having regard to the cost of construction,  the  cost of maintenance and the low rates charged to those who stay there. That, hotel is conducted largely to meet the convenience of members of Parliament. On some days the accommodation is fully availed of, and at other times many rooms, are empty because they have to be kept in reserve for members. If the department could secure a suitable person to. conduct Barton House, it would be glad to grant the lessee a ten years' lease. "Under a capable lessee, the guests would receive as fair a deal as they could expect if the hostel were conducted by the department. 
[10.40).  -  .  Senator Armstrong  has referred to the supply of washing machines required by the Department of the Army. All too frequently, honorable  senators  make insinuations against men  who  give their  time  and energy in an entirely honorary capacity to assist in the various war activities. I suggest to them that the men doing this work at present are not seeking personal gain, but are patriotically giving their service to the country. If they are to know anything about the matters on which their advice is sought, they must have been connected in some way with the organization in respect of which their advice is given. I have no personal knowledge regarding the position of  Mr. Lilley,  but I suggest to the honorable senator that, whilst  Mr. Lilley  may have advised the Department of the Army regarding the machinery necessary for army laundry purposes, that department will not ultimately obtain the machinery. The department, after determining what machinery it desires to install, makes its requirements known to the Department of Supply and Development. Tenders are called by that Department, and these come before the Supply and Tender Board, which is entirely dissociated from any of the advisers of the Department of the Army, and the Supply and Tender Board finally decides which tender shall be accepted. Even if  Mr. Lilley  were connected in some way with laundry machinery, he could not influence the acceptance of any tender called for by the Department of Supply and Development. 

 Senator Aylett has spoken of the development of the magnesium industry in Tasmania. If the conference referred to by him has not yet been held, I undertake to convene it on an appropriate date.  Senator Aylett  has frequently referred to this industry in the Senate, but probably not on more occasions than thoseonwhichconsiderationhasbeen giventoitbymydepartment.Asfaras Iamaware,nopreciseproposalhasyet been made by the Tasmanian Magnesium Company, except that, in a general way, it has undertaken to refine its product if the Government will guarantee the company at least the costs of production. That, of course, is an unacceptable proposal. 
Yep, if the company desires it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-In view of the delay which has occurred in connexion with the acquisition of land in South Australia for munitions works, can the Minister for the Interior say when finality is likely to be reached ? Will he, in order to expedite settlement, send a responsible officer to South Australia so that the owners of the land may know how much they are likely to receive for land compulsorily acquired from them, and when the money will be paid ? 
There hasbeen some delay associated with the acquisition of land in South Australia due to a variation of the areas proposed to be taken over by the Department of Supply and Munitions. However, a decision in the matter was reached last -week, and the necessary notices will appear in the next issue of the  Commonwealth Gazette.  On the publication of such notices, claims may be sent in by the landholders concerned, and I promise that there will be no delay in dealing with them. In reply to the second part of the honorable senator's question, I do not think that any good purpose would be served by sending a special officer to South Australia; out should any landholder whose land will be acquired desire it, the Government will make an advance to him of up to 75 per cent. of the Government's valuation of his land. 
Yes, because valuable and dangerous explosives were on the land. 
If the Minister finds that settlement of claims could be expedited by sending an officer to South Australia, will he take steps to do so! 
Yes. 
 I ask the following questions of the Minister representing the Prime Minister: - 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the New South Wales District of the Australian Journalists Association was to-day refused permission by the Public Service Board to be represented by counsel at the inquiry which is proceeding into statements about establishing a dictatorship which were allegedly made by  Mr. L.  A.Robb, Secretary to the Governor of New South Wales? 
Docs the Prime Minister know that the Australian Journalists Association  was  endeavouring to protect the interests of its members who had reported  Mr. Robb's  remarks, and were called as witnesses at the inquiry in which public servants inquired into the utterances of a public servant who was prosecuted by a public servant? 
Is the Prime Minister aware that this inquiry is being held behind closed doors, whereas Mr.Robb's remarks were made in public and concerned the public and this Parliament?  4.Is the Prime Minister aware that  Mr. Robb  and other interests, except the Australian Journalists Association and the journalists concerned, are being represented by counsel? 
Will the Prime Minister take steps to ensure that this denial of natural justice to the journalists does not result in a public service inquiry developing into a white-washing tribunal at the expense of the journalists who have established a reputation for accuracy? 
Isthe Prime Minister aware that  Mr. Robb  and others at the soldiers' congress carried a vote of thanks and confidence inthe press, after  Mr. Robb  had been shown a copy of his speech the morning after he made it, and that  Mr. Robb  made only one minor alteration? 
Will the Prime Minister take steps to hold an inquiry, open to the members of the public, in the interests of the preservation of parliamentary and democratic institutions? 
I shall bring the honorable senator'squestions under the notice of the Prime Minister this afternoon. 
There being an absolute majority of senators present, and no dissentient voice being raised, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
Is the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research continuing its investigations into the question of virus  or  any other means for the extermination of the rabbit pest? 
If so, can the Minister say what progress has been made, or when the method of extermination is likely to be released for practical use by land-owners? 
The Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. Investigations are being continued with the virus disease. 
The experiments are still in progress, but it is hot possible at the present stage to say when definite results will be available. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is not the Commonwealth Government a controlling shareholder of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, and therefore also of the Marconi School of Wireless? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
The Commonwealth Government is a controlling shareholder of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. 
The Marconi School of Wireless isa department of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. Any matters relating to the school can be raised and discussedby the government directors at board meetings of the company. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Has any information been received from Great Britain regarding the progress made by the defence authorities in combating night bombing by the German Air Force? 
Ifso, will the Government make such information available to the people 
The Minister for Information has supplied the following answers :  - 
and 2. The Commonwealth Government is constantly in touch with the authorities abroad with a view to the latest information of this description being made available to the people, and the honorablesenator can be assured that all such information that can be released for publication is made available at the earliest practicable moment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated cost of the construction of the tennis court for the officers of the Sixth Military District, Hobart? 
Is this an essential military expenditure? 
Are fishing trips to Lewisham and other places a military activity; if not, will the Government  issue  instructions that official cars are not to be used for other than military purposes ? 
Did the Army seek advice from the 
Postmaster-General's Department before barracks were constructed at Low Head, Tasmania? 
What is to be done with the said barracks now they are not required; 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
The estimated cost of the tennis court is £150, but it is not solely for the use of officers. It is part of a proposal for two courts - one for officers and one for other ranks. Meanwhile both officers and other ranks will use the one court. 
Not an essential military expenditure, but it may be classed as a desirable recreational facility. 
Strict instructions are already in force to prevent the issue of army vehicles for other than strictly military purposes. 
No barracks were constructed at Low Head. Hutted accommodation was temporarily provided there for the guard which has now been removed. 
The hutted accommodation will be moved for use elsewhere. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What are the daily rates of pay for the private soldier in the British Army, the Australian Imperial Force, the Canadian Expeditionary Force and the New Zealand Expeditionary Force? 
What allowances do the wives and children of members of each force receive? 
Inquiries will be made and a reply furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
What types of hearing-aids are being authorized by the Repatriation Commission? 
Are these hearing-aids the best instruments available in Australia for the assistance of the deaf? 
If not, what is the reason for not authorizing the purchase of the best type of hearing-aid for ex-soldiers? 
If the reason is that purchase of some types may be a strain on funds in a nonsterling country, is there any reason why the commission should not take advantage of the instruments already in this country and which have been brought out in good faith by firms to meet the need of ex-soldiers through the Repatriation Commission ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The Repatriation Commission authorizes the purchase of hearing-aids of Australian or British manufacture. 
These hearing-aids cover a wide range of styles eminently suitable for all classes of aural disability, and are quite capable of adequately fulfilling all requirements. 3 and 4. See answer to No. 2. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What are the names and rank of mem bers of the Commonwealth Parliament serving in the Australian Imperial Force or other forces ? 
What pay and allowance do they receive ? 
What are the names of members of the various State Parliaments serving in the AustralianImperial Force or other forces? 
What pay and allowance do they receive? 
I am advisedby the Minister for the Army that as research is necessary before the information requested can be collated an immediate reply is not practicable. An answer, however, will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Public Service of the Northern Territory is distinct from the Commonwealth Public Service. Officers in the former are appointed under the Public Service Ordinance 1928-39 of that Territory. Although the conditions of service and salaries are to a large degree based on those prevailing in the Commonwealth Service, there is no entrance examination for appointment, the practice being to select the best candidates offering. The Minister for the Interior is the authority by whom appointments are made. At present, there are approximately 150 officers in the Service of the 
Northern Territory. Representations have been made from time to time as to the need to allow officers of the TerritoryService the right of entry to the Commonwealth Public Service or to be transferred to Commonwealth positions in the States, instead of remaining indefinitely in the Northern 'Territory. In 1937, the Payne-Fletcher Committee, which investigated certain matters connected with the Northern Territory, supported the principle embodied in the bill. The Commonwealth Public Service Board was requested to investigate the staffing of the Northern Territory Service, and to report as to whether some scheme could bp evolved to improve the present position. After conducting an investigation, the board intimated that it supported the opinion that the public interest would best be served by placing the departments in the Northern Territory, with certain exceptions, under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. Subject to legal considerations, the Government has agreed in principle to the appointment of permanent officers of the Northern Territory Service to the Commonwealth Public Service, under section 42 of  the  Commonwealth Public Service Act. The exceptions referred to are the officers of the Education, Police and Prisons Branches of the Northern Territory Service, some of whom have no counterpart in the Commonwealth Public Service. Section 42 of the Commonweatlh Public Service Act provides - 
If the board is satisfied that it is desirable in the interests of the Commonwealth that the appointment be made, the board may appoint to  any  office in the Commonwealth Service, without examination or probation, any officer of the Territorial Service or the Commonwealth Railway Service, or any member of the Police Force of the Territory for the Seat of Government. 
In section 7 of the Act, " The Territorial Service " is defined as follows " The Territorial Service " means the Public Service of any territory under the authority of the Commonwealth, including a territory governed by the Commonwealth under a mandate. 
It is proposed that 40 or 50 officers shall be transferred to the Commonwealth Service and that future appointments shall be made under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. In addition to clerks and typists, it is proposed that permanent officers of the legal, mining, "lands, survey and drafting staffs may also be transferred. To enable the transfer to be effected, it is necessary to repeal sub-section 3 of section 4 of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910, and to make provision in the Commonwealth Public Service Act for the Administrator of the Northern Territory to be given the powers of a chief officer under that act. Sub-section 3 of section 4 of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-40, which it is proposed to repeal, reads - 
The Minister may appoint, or may delegate to the Administrator to appoint, such officers as are necessary for the Administration of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act or of this act for the proper government of the Territory. 
The effect of the repeal of that subsection is to transfer to the Public Service Board the power which the Minister possesses to appoint officers in the Northern Territory. As honorable senators are aware, all appointments to the Commonwealth Public Service are made by the Public Service Board. The transfer of the control of the Northern Territory Service to the Commonwealth Public Service Board will increase the efficiency of administration in the Northern Territory. With the possible exception of some of the older men now in the service, who could not readily be absorbed, officers will not be required to work indefinitely in the tropics, but will have opportunities to transfer to the south. Transferred officers will be replaced by experienced officers from the Commonwealth Service or by personnel recruited by the methods provided in the Commonwealth Public Service Act. I commend this bill to the Senate for two reasons. First, because officers in the Northern Territory, where the climate and conditions are not so congenial as they are in Canberra and other centres of administration have given many years of yeoman service to Australia. Secondly, as the officers in the Northern Territory have not been under the control of the Public Service Board, it has not been possible to transfer them. The public service of the Northern Territory will benefit materially if its officers are given privileges similar to those of their colleagues in  other parts of Australia. The growing importance of the Northern Territory and of its expanding governmental activities, make it desirable that this measure should be passed. 
 It was not possible for honorable senators to grasp the purport of this bill until the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  delivered his second-reading speech. Having heard that speech I see no reason why the bill should not be passed promptly, provided information is forthcoming on sonic phases which are of importance to me. I am prepared to accept the Minister's assurance that the purpose of the bill is to improve the conditions of public servants in the Northern Territory, but there are several other matters which should be clarified. I should like to know from whom the request for this legislation  came,  and what, effect, if any, it will have on the conditions of employment and salaries at present being paid in the Northern Territory? Is it the intention of the Public Service Board to assume control over these employees in order that it may deprive them of some rights or advantages which they now enjoy. I should like to know also whether this  bill  will affect temporary as well as permanent employees. I dislike the term " temporary ", because frequently socalled temporary employees have been employed for periods up to twenty years. What effect will the  bill  have on examinations for entry into the Public Service. I understand that public servants in the Northern Territory have not been subject to the same rigid examination as is held for entry into the Commonwealth Public Service in other parts of Australia. Are the employees to be penalized because they entered the Public Service when no such examination was required? How have appointments been made up to date, and, have the employees in the Northern Territory asked for this legislation? If the Minister can enlighten me on those points I am sure honorable senators on this side of the chamber will offer no opposition to the bill. 
 Not having the principal act before me. it is difficult to ascertain what the amendments mean; but I take it from the Minister's statement that in future the Northern Territory Public Service will not be continued as at present, and that the Commonwealth Public Service will now be open to public servants now employed in the Northern Territory. 
That is satisfactory; I am strongly of the opinion that so far as possible provision should be made for local autonomy. Obviously the Northern Territory is not yet entitled to a form of local government, but I believe that control from a distance is not the best form of government, and, so far as possible, should be eliminated by the transfer of powers to local authorities. I should like the Minister to explain whether the Administrator, whom I think he said will be the chief executive officer in the Northern Territory, will be able to make appointments, or must such appointments be subject to the decision of the Public Service Board in Canberra? 
But he will have no real authority in constituting the Public Service in the Northern Territory? 
At present he is dependent upon the Minister's approval, and that approval will now come from the Public Service Board? 
.- The comment which I desire to make on this bill is applicable to quite a number of measures which are brought before this chamber. I suggest to the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  and to other Ministers that when the debate on a bill is to proceed without an adjournment of the debate they should circulate copies of their second-reading speeches  among honorable senators. It is impossible for us to memorize a speech prepared by departmental officers and read hurriedly by a Minister. Bills which appear- quite innocuous sometimes subsequently prove to be "loaded1". 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that more information is required in connexion with this bill. -The administration of this measure from Canberra may be difficult. Has this legislation been suggested by men in the Northern Territory, or by departmental officers in Canberra? What classes of employees are concerned? I know that there are employees of the Postal Department in the Northern Territory working under the same conditions as apply to those in other parts of the Commonwealth. I agree with  Senator Abbott  that the rights of residents in other parts of Australia to secure employment in the Northern Territory should be protected. Having urged for years that the railway * systems of the Commonwealth be placed under the one control so that men in tropical Queensland could be transferred, to the more salubrious climate of Victoria, I favour a provision which enables men in the Territory service to be transferred to -other parts of the Commonwealth. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) "3.31]. - I should like the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  to say when replying who will be affected by this legislation. Will temporary employees in the Northern Territory administration be brought under the Public Service Board and will appointment to that administration be made as the result of public service examinations? If so, will the same standard be required as in -other parts of the Commonwealth? Will those officers  who become Commonwealth public servants under this legislation be qualified to be transferred from one part of the Commonwealth to another? Will the Northern Territory service be administered from the office of the Public Service Board at Canberra, or will there be a deputy commissioner in the Northern Territory ? 
.- Much of this debate would have been avoided if, after having moved the second reading of this .bill, the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Poll)  had moved the second reading of the consequential bill to amend the Public Service Act. We should know the contents of that measure before we are asked to pass this bill. 
 in reply -  The Leader of the- Opposition  (Senator Collings)  asked who had requested.1 this legislation. It would be difficult to- specify any individual, but the employees are pleased that we are proceeding with the bill, which results from correspondence and conferences between the Administrator of the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth Public Service Board. 
No advantages or privileges will be lost. The officers are merely being : brought into line with Commonwealth public servants elsewhere in Australia. Members of the Northern Territory service will become members of the Commonwealth Public Service, but future appointments will be made as the result of competitive examinations. Temporary officers of the Northern Territory service will become temporary officers of the Commonwealth Public Service; their status will be unchanged.  Senator Keane  referred to employees of the postal department stationed in the Northern Territory. They are not affected by this measure, because they are already under the control of the Public Service Board.  Senator Abbott  referred to the advisability of retaining in the Northern Territory as much local control as is possible. That matter is at present under the consideration of the Public Service Board. The service may be administered from either the Adelaide or Brisbane office of the Public Service Board or it may be found better to establish a branch office at Darwin. The 150 men affected are mostly clerical or field officers or men of that description. I cannot assure  Senator Keane  that copies of Ministers' second-reading speeches will be circulated. To do so would have disadvantages as well as advantages. Decision on that is a matter for the Government as a whole. It might be possible to meet the honorable Senator's wishes if bills are noncontentious. 
SenatorCollings. -  Senator Keane's  suggestion was that the Minister's speech should be distributed after it has been made. 
Customarily, after the Minister delivers his second-reading speech, the debate is adjourned and honorable senators are able to study it in  Hansard.  As  Senator A.  J. McLachlan pointed out, the machinery for the transfer of the Northern Territory service to the Commonwealth Public Service Board will be contained in an amendment of the Commonwealth Public Service Act. The only desire of the Government, the administration of the Territory and the Commonwealth Public Service Board is to strengthen the service, and, if possible, to improve the conditions of officers in the Northern Territory. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
This bill may be described as a hardy annual. When the subject of assistance to the claimant States is under consideration the  Senate functions as a States' House I commend to the claimant States the recognition of the fact that Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria have never  opposed these grants. I still believe that we have not yet arrived at a scientific method of deciding what disabilities the claimant States suffer as the result of federation. It is entirely wrong that those States should be placed each recurring year in the position of mendicants. Despite the remarks of the Minister  (Senator McBride)  in his second-reading speech, it seems to me that the State which does its best to put its own financial house in order is penalized under the present method of arriving at the amount of compensation to which it is entitled. The most extravagant of the claimant States is able to present the strongest plea for assistance, if it has the largest deficit. I gathered from the speech of the Minister, and from the report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission itself, that an attempt is being made to investigate the system of allocating the grants. As in the case of similar bills, the Opposition will not delay the passage of this measure. 
The claimant States have taken years to convince the Commonwealth authorities that in assessing the amounts of the grants from the Commonwealth, allowance should be made for the varying economic conditions prevailing in those States. But, even now, the method adopted in arriving at those amounts is unscientific. The Treasurers of the States are prevented from preparing their budgets until they know the amounts of the grants to be received from the Commonwealth. The largest grant is given to the State which has been most extravagant in its expenditure. If Tasmania cuts down its expenditure it is penalized accordingly. For weeks the Treasurer of Tasmania had to postpone the opening of the State Parliament this year because he could not ascertain the amount of the grant to be allotted to that State. Consideration should be given to the important fact that Tasmania does not share in the war expenditure. A good deal of friction has arisen between Victoria and New South "Wales as to the distribution of that expenditure; but, as Tasmania receives no portion of defence expenditure, it seems to me that is has the strongest reason to complain about the amount of its grant. Until a scientific method of determining the amounts of the grants to the claimant States is found I fear that they will continue to be penalized. 
. If the second-reading speech of the Minister  (Senator McBride)  had been circulated, we should have been in a better position to discuss the bill. I understood the Minister to say that the Commonwealth Grants Commission had been operating over a number of years, and that the conditions under which it was carrying out its work were becoming more stabilized than in the past. He stated that the principal functions of the commission had undergone no change. If the methods by which the commission works have now become stabilized, I see no necessity for this body to travel through the smaller States every year with a train-load of secretaries and attendants. 
Members of the commission, like Ministers, take their private secretaries with them. I suggest that a saving could be effected if the commission made recommendations for the next five years. It hears practically the same evidence every year. During the year before last Tasmania was considerably penalized because the standard of its social services was higher than in the other States. The Minister said that one of the reasons why higher grants were to be given to Western Australia and South Australia was that taxes in those States had increased, and that they had deficits. It was necessary to raise their taxes to improve the standard oftheir social services, but I point out that those States receive increased grants this year because they have raised the standard of their social services. In the previous year, however, the commission victimized Tasmania because the standard of those services in that State was regarded as too high. 

 Senator Darcey has remarked that it is impossible for the Treasurers of the States to prepare their budgets until they know the sum that will be granted to them by the Commonwealth. Consequently, at certain periods of the year, developmental works are brought to a standstill, until such time as the Treasurer is advised! of how much the grant will be. This year, Tasmania will suffer hardship because lack of shipping facilities will prevent the export df its products to the other States. In recent years Tasmania has benefited considerably from tourist traffic. Prior to the outbreak of war about. 50,000 passengers travelled each way annually between Tasmania and the mainland. From November to April in the 1937-38 tourist season, the number of passengers carried by overseas vessels was 5,700, and during the same period of the 1938-39 season the number was 7,700. These figures are additional to the Easter cruise passengers who numbered 950 in 1938 and 2,219 in 1939. The passenger traffic between Tasmania and the mainland is considerable, and augments by hundreds of thousands of pounds a year the revenue of Tasmania. Owing to a shortage of ships, practically the whole of that trade will be lost this year, but that fact had not been taken into consideration by the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its recommendation for this year. 
That is why I am pointing, to these anomalies, and urging that the grant should be made on a fiveyear basis. 
It would not if the grant were adequate. The Government of Tasmania would be prepared to accept it on the basis of a five-year period. Indeed the grant is decreasing so rapidly that the Government of Tasmania would bc wise to accept payment on that basis. 
 If the Minister will study the causes of the disabilities of tlie States, he will find evidence to support a grant to Tasmania of not £400,000, but £1,000,000. Tasmania has stronger grounds for receiving assistance from the Commonwealth than has any other State because so many of its citizens, after receiving their education and training in&gt; the island State, migrate to the mainland in order to obtain employment. The Minister cannot deny the justice of this claim. It would be better for the grant to be made on the basis of three or five years than that the commission should undertake a trip annually to Tasmania merely in order to obtain endorsement of evidence already in its possession. 
.- I am disappointed at the amount proposed to he granted to Tasmania this year, and I thought that the Minister for Supply and Development  (.Senator McBride)  would have given reasons why the Commonwealth Grants Commission had fined that State £30,000. Having read the report of the commission, I cannot find in it anything which would lead me to believe that this reduction is fair. In the introduction to its sixth report the commission stated - 
The fundamental principle underlying the previous assets of tlie Commission is expressed in its Third report as follows: - 
Special grants are justified when a State through financial stress from any cause is unable efficiently to discharge its functions as a member of the federation, and should bc determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for that State by reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. 
Apparently, the reduction of the grant by £30,000 was due to the position of the State railways and the absence of heavy expenditure by municipal councils. On page 53 of its sixth report, the commission stated, in paragraph 118. -  118. The position of the Tasmanian railways has been fully explained in our Fifth report. The burden of the railway deficit continues to be a crushing one in Tasmania, the total loss for 1937-38 being over £500,000. In its last report the commission pointed out that, in its opinion, tlie increase in personnel in recent years was not justified, and for thai: reason a nominal penalty was imposed. 
Last year, I pointed out that during the depression not all of the rolling-stock belonging to the Tasmanian railway was used, and, instead of being covered, was left in the open, where it depreciated. 
That was the fault of a Nationalist government. The present Labour Government of Tasmania made a determined effort, to put the railways on a sound basis by employing numbers of men to put the rolling-stock in good repair, so that it would be of use when required. Since then, the traffic on the railways has increased; but because the present Government followed that wise course, it is now to be penalized. The report continued - 
The figures of the numbers of railway employees presented to. the Commission show that, notwithstanding the continued drift i" railway finances and the decrease in railway revenue in 1937-38, there was practically no change in the numbers of employees in the year under review, viz., 1037-38. The Transport Commission recently appointed has not yet had an opportunity of dealing with this question, but we feel that some notice must be taken by the  Commission  of the position existing in 1937-38, the year on which tho present grants are based. 
There can be no doubt that Tasmania has been penalized because its Government improved its railway rolling stock. Last year, the railway system of Tasmania showed a small surplus over working expenses. There is no justification for the fine inflicted on Tasmania. 
The lottery conducted by certain interests in Tasmania yields a revenue of £400,000 annually to the State. 
That amount should be taken into consideration as revenue from taxes, notwithstanding that most of it comes from the other States. The money is used for social services and the good of the people generally. In my opinion, the report of the commission is not based on the evidence placed before it; rather do I think that the commission gives to the necessitous States what it thinks they will accept, and no more. 
On numerous occasions, my colleagues and I have pointed out that Tasmania is the school from which the other States draw some of their most valued citizens, but the Commonwealth Grants Commission has never taken into consideration the co=t of education in Tasmania. In 1938 Tasmania's loss of population was 1,153 ; in the following year, it was 124. Between January, 1901, and June, 1939, the total natural increase of Tasmania's population was 121,449, but the State lost 57,703 by migration to the other States. The commission should recognize that the bench. of Tasmania's education system is reaped largely in the other States. I could continue in this strain, but I realize that it would be useless, because no notice is taken of the arguments put forward in support of the better treatment of Tasmania. Representatives of that State hope that in future Tasmania will receive a fixed grant for a number of years. 
The recent budget proposals will impose additional hardships on Tasmania, benn use the majority of its taxpayers come within the salary range, £200 to £600. The additional levy on such incomes will reduce the purchasing power of those taxpayers, and will be reflected in decreased business. The State Treasurer has asked that these matters be taken into consideration, but nothing has been done. As I have said, it seems useless to present to the Commonwealth Government any evidence to support Tasmania's claim for a larger grant. 
 Honorable senators will recollect that, for a number of years, the subject of grants to the necessitous States has been discussed in this Parliament, and that the conditions governing such grants were left to the judgment of the Parliament, which is the final arbiter in the matter. Each year the question has arisen as to whether the larger States should make these contributions to the less fortunate States, which, through no fault of their own, have been unable to balance their budgets. Honorable senators recognize that "Western Australia and Tasmania have suffered special disabilities under federation. The terms of reference to the Commonwealth Grants Commission provide that inquiries may be conducted into the disabilities suffered  by  any  of  the Australian States, and that recommendations shall be ?r&gt;ade to the Government with respect to the grants to be paid.  Obviously,  it  is  very difficult for the commission to determine the actual disabilities suffered  by  a State such as Western Australia, which has a large undeveloped area, and to decide what financial assistance should be rendered. Honorable senators representing Tasmania have spoken, with some justification, regarding the disabilities experienced by that State, and I am sure that the suggestions brought forward today have some substance. When inquiry was being made into Tasmania's finances the Treasurer,  Mr. Dwyer-Gray,  and many other witnesses were examined, and round-table conferences were held in order to reach a just conclusion. Obviously, it would be impracticable to adopt  Senator Aylett's  suggestion that the commission should be disbanded and grants to the claimant States be fixed by the Government for the next five or ten years. Should that be done, South Australia, for instance, which might experience a successful year, would receive a fixed grant, even though some of the States which indirectly provided, the money, had experienced adverse conditions. Obviously, a. policy under which a State which was showing a deficit would be obliged to contribute to the revenue of another State which showed a surplus on the year's activities, could not be tolerated. We should have confidence in the commission, because it desires to deal justly with the claimant States. The commission is beyond the realm of party politics, and I am prepared to accept its recommendations. In effect the commission is an umpire, the decision of which we should accept without complaining.  Senator Aylett  seemed somewhat perturbed concerning the position this year. It is not for us to anticipate the findings of the commission, but rather to expect that they will be reached without bias, and with due regard to the circumstances of each claimant State. Obviously, the commission must determine whether a. State has controlled its financial activities in a business-like way, particularly in regard to expenditure. When the commission was constituted, the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Lyons)  gave an undertaking that its recommendations would he honoured. There is no reason why the undertaking then given should be departed from. Even when a grant to a claimant State has been reduced, we should accept the decision of the commission unless we can point to a definite injustice.  Senator Aylett  referred to the movement of young people from Tas mania to the mainland States. To what degree the commission should take that factor into consideration is a matter for its determination. I do not know whether corrective measures can- be taken; but it must be evident that with the huge defence expenditure now being undertaken, the less-populous States cannot offer the same facilities for employment as are provided in other States. I am afraid that the movement of young people to highly industrialized States will continue. This is not a new problem; it has been raised in this chamber on several occasions. There may be some aspects which have not been taken into account by the commission, but I am sure that all the points raised here to-day have been brought under its notice by the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  and now that a decision has been given, it should be adhered to. Some honorable senators have expressed fears that Tasmania will suffer, but I submit that it is not our responsibility te anticipate what the commission will do; rather should we believe that justice will be done. 
I agree with  Senator Aylett  that we should eliminate the expense now being incurred by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Am I right in assuming that that was the honorrable senator's suggestion ? 
I am not so much concerned with whether annual trips are made as I am with the necessity to conserve revenue to the greatest possible degree. I do not know the annual cost of the commission, but I do know that its members are paid fees and travelling expenses, and no doubt the total annual cost is considerable. Surely, after such a long period, the Commonwealth Government should have acquired sufficient knowledge of the disabilities suffered by the claimant States to fix the average annual amount to be payable to each State. I am sure that the States would agree if the Commonwealth Government said, " In view of all the information that we have accumulated, we consider that, say,  £500,000  annually is a fair amount to be paid during the next five or ten years ". Why is it necessary for members of the commission to make long trips, and why should heavy expense be incurred each, year in printing voluminous reports? Admittedly, economic changes may take place from time to time, but surely it should be possible to reach an understanding with the claimant States, and to fix .a flat rate for a definite period. Perhaps the Commonwealth Government could offer a lump sum and so end its liability for all time. 
Unlike many other commissions, such as the petrol commission and the banking commission, which have cost this country hundreds of thousands of pounds, the Commonwealth Grants Commission has earned its money, because it has brought in reports which have been acted upon by the Government. This perennial discussion on grants to Tasmania, Western Australia and South Australia provides this moral: Many difficulties would be overcome if the States were abolished.  Senator Aylett  pointed out that Tasmania expended huge sums on education and that its young men and women were forced to go to the mainland for work. The Labour party has advocated among other matters that education should be under the control of the Commonwealth. That would lessen Tasmania's difficulties. 
 During the war all the States, with the exception of Victoria and New South Wales, will suffer a disability to the degree that, although the people in those States will be taxed heavily, relatively little of the millions of pounds that will be raised for war purposes will be spent outside Melbourne and Sydney. Queensland is neither a mendicant nor an indigent State. On the contrary, intelligently governed by a Labour administration, it is prosperous. It is the queen State of the Commonwealth and is making rapid progress. Nevertheless, it could be retarded in its development by unwise government in the federal arena. Queensland will not share greatly in the war expenditure. Honorable senators opposite may say that we should take a national point of view; we do so, but, if the people of a State be taxed heavily for national defence purposes and the money raised be expended elsewhere, those people cannot be employed fully and the State revenue will have to carry an extra burden. Years ago the Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, showed clearly the disabilities under which Queensland labours. He showed that Queensland gave to the Commonwealth much more than was returned to it by the federal authorities. Tasmania suffers similarly and its sufferings will be added to while the war is in progress. It is to be hoped that the Commonwealth Grants Commission will take cognizance of that fact in assessing the grant to the State next year. Rather than have the commission continue its peregrinations through the countryside, I support the suggestion made by  Senator Aylett  that the commission should be disbanded and that the claimant States should be given a fixed grant over a number of years. 
 in reply  - The Government appreciates the solid support given by Parliament each year to the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The support given by this chamber shows that the Senate is capable of functioning as a States' House in the way in which it was expected to function when federation was adopted. The commission has not attempted for some years to assess disabilities. It has made its recommendations for assistance on the basis of actual financial needs of the claimant States. Whilst in a particular year aclaimant State may feel that, owing to internal conditions, it is entitled to a greater grant than in the previous year, I call attention to the fact that ali financial assistance is based on the relative position of the claimant States as compared with the standard States, namely, New South Wales and Victoria. 
I concede the truth of  Senator Aylett's  submission that it is difficult without notice to deliver a reasoned speech on this or any other subject, but honorable senators do not strengthen their case by making extravagant and inaccurate statements. For example  Senator Aylett  inaccurately alleged that members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission travel with  a trainload of private secretaries. If the honorable gentleman had any interest in the commission he would ascertain the facts before making such a flagrantly inaccurate charge. None of the members of the commission has a private secretary. There is a secretary to the commission. The commission is one of the most economically conducted commissions that we have ever had ; its cost, including that of the secretary and the permanent staff, would not exceed £5,000 per annum, which is a trivial amount compared with the valuable services given in dealing with the expenditure of millions of pounds. 

 Senator Aylett glibly said that there should be a fixed grant to the claimant States for a period of five years. The honorable senator may be sincere in his advocacy of that suggestion, hut I doubt whether the Tasmanian Government would agree to the proposition. Indeed it is likely that Tasmania would be severely handicapped if that were done.  Senator Aylett  tried to make the Senate believe that the grants to Tasmania had decreased continuously over the years whereas in 1934-35 Tasmania received exactly the same amount as it is to receive this year and in the intervening period the grants to that. State have widely fluctuated. A good point was made by  Senator Herbert  Hays when he pointed out that it was likely that the claimant States next year would be entitled to larger grants than this year, because of the increased prosperity which will result in Victoria and New South Wales from war expenditure. As I pointed out earlier, the grants are computed on a relative basis, and vary according to the conditions in the claimant States. 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission has not been unmindful of the disability caused to State Treasurers through being unable to budget for the year until its report is published. On this occasion the States were perfectly well aware of the recommendations of the commission because they were released for publication on the 2nd October. 
The commission has already examined that possibility. However, it must wait until relatively late in the year before it can obtain information with regard to certain matters which have a vital bearing on its recommendations. Dealing with the suggestion that the grants should be fixed for a period of years the commission, in paragraph 15 of its sixth report, stated : - 
It has been urged in responsible quarters that a formula should be evolved so that special grants may be automatically fixed for a term of  years.  This question has engaged  our  close attention, but we are convinced that neither a constitutional amendment nor an automatic formula can solve tlie problem. Our conclusion is that the relative financial positions of the States fluctuate so considerably from year to year that any constitutional change or the use of a fixed formula may speedily become inapplicable and unjust, lt is clear that a fixed formula could not take full account of the relative effects of changes in prices, in wages, in fluctuations of trade, in unemployment, in the effects of droughts, floods and bushfires, in movements of population, as well as in tlie effects of external influences on the economy of the nation. We are of opinion that no specific formula can he devised which will provide automatically for these and other changes. Another factor to be borne in mind is the changing position caused by the uneven growth of Federal and State responsibilities in relation to their financial resources. We believe that financial adjustments in the form cif special grants cannot be fairly assessed without a searching annual review of the finances and economic conditions of all the States. If Parliament is to be informed adequately concerning the basis of special grants to the States, all the economic movements we have mentioned, and their effects on the finances of the States, must be kept under constant observation and a year-to-year assessment made. An essential feature of this task is the building up of principles and methods of measurement which can be applied to fluctuating financial and economic conditions. 
The commission is doing a very good job. I am sure that not only the Government, but also this Parliament appreciate its work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to appropriate for defence and war expenditure on works and armaments an amount of £2,928,376, which represents the excess receipts of the Consolidated RevenueFund during 1939-40. By the Defence Equipment Act of 1934 a defence equipment trust account was established, into which various amounts have since been paid with the approval of Parliament, with the object of relieving the revenues of later years. The purposes for which amounts standing to the credit of this account may be used are: - 
for naval construction; 
for the purchase of arms, arms ments, aircraft, munitions, equipment, machinery, plant, and reserves of ammunition and oil fuel; and 
for defence works and buildings and the acquisition of sites therefor. 
An amount of £35,809 remained in the trust account at the 30th June last from the excess receipts of 1938-39. This was set aside last year for expenditure on defence equipment, and with the amount of £2,928,376, which it is now proposed to appropriate for a similar purpose, a total of £2,964,185 is available from the trust account for expenditure on works and armaments in 1940-41. Details of the items on which this amount is to be expended will be found on page 353 of the Estimates. The policy of treating excess receipts in this way has been approved by Parliament in a number of instances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
In introducing this measure the Govern ment has given proof that it is fully aware of the importance of the wheat industry in the Australian economy, and of the peculiar difficulties confronting the industry in war-time. Despite successive attempts to arrive at a stabilization plan in conference with representatives of the State governments, it was, unfortunately, found quite impossible to reconcile the various views expressed. However, the Government realized the pressing need for the stabilization of the wheat industry from a national standpoint. It determined, therefore, that the industry should be stabilized by the introduction of a plan under the National Security Regulations. The essential features of this plan for the stabilization of the wheat industry are as follows: - 
There will be a guaranteed price of 3s. 10d a bushel, f.o.b. ports, for bagged wheat. This means the return to the grower will be the guaranteed price of 3s.10d. a bushel, less all costs including receiving, handling, railage, storage and placing on board. 
This guaranteed price will apply to a marketed crop of 140,000,000 bushels. This means actually a crop of 160,000,000 bushels for Australia, as about 20,000,000 bushels each year is retained on the farms for seed and other purposes, and is not marketed. 
A fund will be created into which surplus market realizations will be paid in years of good prices. This fund will then be used to meet the deficiency resulting from payments to the industry in years when the realizations are less than 3s.10d. a bushel, f.o.b. In those years when market realizations exceed 3s.10d. a bushel, the surplus will be divided equally between the fund and the grower. 
That all wheat harvested as grain will be marketed through the Australian Wheat Board. 
The Commonwealth Government's liability with respect to the guaranteed price of 3s.10d. a bushel f.o.b. ports is limited to a marketed crop not exceeding 140,000,000 bushels. 
In order to provide for control of the acreage to be sown early in 1941, it is necessary that all existing wheat farms should bc registered, and that all persons desiring to grow wheat for grain on such registered farms shall be licensed to do so. Growers applying for licences to grow wheat will be -required to give an undertaking that they will not sow more than the acreage allotted to them, and that they will comply with such other conditions as circumstances may compel the Government to impose. 
The underlying principle of the Government's plan is to stabilize the industry. It is not proposed that registration of farms not at present growing wheat will be permitted at some future date. The interests of the bona fide wheat-grower must be safeguarded, but further expansion cannot be allowed. 
Three bills are to be submitted. The first is the Wheat Industry (War-Time) Control Bill 1940 which amends an act passed last year, keeps it operative for the period of the war, and makes amendments necessitated by the wheat stabilization scheme. The second is' a bill to tax wheat. This is to ensure that in years of good prices the excess price above the guaranteed price will be shared between the growers and the fund from which the guarantee is paid. The third is a  machinery  measure for assessment and collection of the tax. 
The purpose of the Wheat Tax (War Time) Bill 1940 is to impose a tax on wheat as part of the wheat industry stabilization plan which will operate from the commencement of the 1941-42 season. Under that plan, the price of 3s. lOd. a bushel will be guaranteed to growers on all wheat, harvested after the 1st October, 1941, and acquired by the Government. The bill provides that, when the declared f.o.b. price of wheat exceeds the guaranteed price, there will be a tax of 50 per cent, of the amount of that excess. The tax will operate in the following way: In addition to the guaranteed price, 50 per cent, only of the total amount by which the f.o.b. value exceeds the guaranteed price will be paid to wheat-growers. The remaining 50 per "'nt. will be paid into the Wheat In dustry (War-Time) Stabilization Fund. When the f.o.b. value is below the guaranteed price, the Commonwealth is bound to pay wheat-growers the difference. For this purpose the Commonwealth will use the moneys in the stabilization fund resulting from tax collections before it is called upon to provide the required finance by other means. Honorable, senators will appreciate that wheat-growers will be protected in adverse seasons and will share the benefits in seasons when prices are high. I commend the measure to the Senate. 
This legislation is of the utmost importance because it deals with one of our basic primary industries. It can at least be said that this measure and those to be dealt with in association with it represent an attempt to stabilize the wheat industry. In my opinion, the only thorough w.ay to do that .would be to adopt a stabilization scheme similar to that in operation in Queensland in connexion with the sugar industry. This measure contains a number of important details which should be watched closely by honorable senators who represent the chief wheat-growing States. Queensland does not export wheat, and, until last season, it was placed in the position of having to import supplies to meet its home requirements. Either the Government's proposals have been hurriedly prepared, or the wheat-growers have not been taken into the full confidence of Ministers. 
My remarks will apply to the whole scheme. The area in which wheat is to he grown is to be restricted. Although sugar production has been restricted in Queensland, the position with regard to wheat is different. It is not certain, from season to season, whether the wheat crop will be good, bad or indifferent. Rainfall and other factors have to be taken into consideration. Therefore, I contend that any stabilization scheme needs careful investigation. I doubt whether the problem can be dealt with satisfactorily in the piecemeal way  in which it has been approached. The only way in which to rehabilitate a large section of the growers would be to repatriate them and wipe out their debts. "Wealthy farmers occupying huge areas should not be permitted to benefit from the special measures designed to relieve necessitous growers on small holdings. 
.- I do not agree to the proposals of the Government, but I shall not oppose these bills. If we take the price of wheat for any seven year period over the last 70 years, we find that the average return to the grower has been 3s. lOd. a bushel, which is the price the Government is now offering. Therefore, the present scheme amounts merely to a compulsory saving scheme imposed on the growers. Why should the wheat-farmers be singled out and forced to accept a price which imposes a compulsory saving upon them ? If the farmer experienced a favorable year, and the price of wheat rose to 4s. or 4s. 4d. a bushel, under the Government's proposals 50 per cent, of the increase above 3s. lOd. a , bushel would be deducted from his receipts to be handed back to him in a lean year. This season the harvest will be very light throughout Australia. With the flour tax, the return to the grower will be 4s. 4d. a bushel ; but next year, if this legislation be passed, a portion of that price will be taken from him. The proposals submitted by the Government should at least be on the lines suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  who advocated a stabilization scheme similar to the sugar stabilization plan. Sugar, dried fruits and butter production is now controlled by means of home-consumption prices, and a homeconsumption price which would return 4s. 4d. a bushel to the wheat-growers this year would be au improvement on the scheme submitted by the Government. If every wheat-farmer is to be licensed, and his production is to be restricted, the Government should also accept responsibility for his debts, .in the event of his failure. 
I oppose any restriction of production. Nature takes a hand now and_again, and has done so effectively this year, but the Government should not try to restrict it. The quantity of wheat available in 
Australia to-day is not much more than is required in this country. Last season the production amounted to 220,000,000 bushels. The Government proposes to apply its scheme to 140,000,000 bushels, and the farmers will be compelled to cut a certain number of acres of their crop for hay. If the balance of the crop is to be cut for hay tie difference between 140,000,000 bushels and roughly 200,000,000 bushels will mean that the farmers will have to cut 6,000,000 tons of hay; but the total requirements of hay in Australia are only 3,000,000 tons a year. It is intended to ruin every grower of hay in districts where wheat cannot be grown for grain ? A scheme for the conservation of fodder is embodied in these proposals, but how could stocks of hay in the Wimmera be transported over railways of three different gauges to the interior of Queensland for use by pastoralists there? It cannot be done economically. Fodder must be conserved on the property, or as near as .possible to the place where it will be consumed. If costly freight charges have to be paid on fodder, it is more economical that the stock should be left to die. That is what happens now. I believe in the conservation of fodder, and each year conserve as much as I think necessary; but I repeat that it must be stored in close proximity to the stock which may need it. I do not propose to vote against the bill, but I submit that the only proper scheme to adopt is one which will guarantee to the farmer a certain price for his" first 1,000 bags of wheat, and require him to accept the world's market price for any balance in excess of that quantity. That would put him in a similar position to the Queensland sugar-grower. 
The producer of sugar is paid a fixed price for some of his product and the world's price for the balance. 
The sugar-grower has to take the world's market price for any excess production, and the wheatgrower should he placed in the same position. 
If the yield were heavy, as it was last year, the wheatgrower would receive approximately 3s. 10d. a bushel; but if the yield were small, as it is this year, he would probably get 5s. 2d. a bushel for the whole of his wheat which is the Flour Sales Tax price. 
My proposal would help a man who needs assistance. The plan is similar to that which now operates in respect of dried fruits, the producer of which is paid a fixed price within Australia, but must accept the world price for the balance of his production. 
That applies also to sugar and butter. When the Paterson butter scheme was first established, the export of butter was small compared with the home consumption, and naturally the scheme gave a profitable return to the producer; but when the export of butter increased until it exceeded the local consumption, the scheme almost broke down. Now, the dairy-farmers receive a homeconsumption price for the butter consumed locally and world market price for the balance. I foresee great difficulties in operating the Government's scheme. I want to assist the wheat-growers, and therefore, I think that the Government has acted wisely in making a grant this year to necessitous farmers. I have travelled fairly extensively in New South Wales and Victoria recently and have seen the deplorable condition of some of our wheat areas. Many farmers will not grow their own seed this year, and a guaranteed price of 3s.10d. a bushel is useless to them. I do not know why this bill has been introduced at this stage, because it will not affect this year's har vest; it will apply only to next year's crop. 
I admit that that legislation must be renewed. That is a reversal of existing legislation. Indeed, that is the legislation which should cover what the Government now proposes. If the scheme provided for a guaranteed price on the first 1,000 bags of wheat and the world's price on any production in excess of that quantity, I should agree to it. 
I intended to discuss the general principles contained in these wheat bills, but a great deal of what I wanted to say has already been said by  Senator Gibson.  I also concur with most of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  who spoke of the desirability of having a permanent scheme, so that the wheat-growers would know where they stood. I congratulate the Government upon making a sincere attempt to deal with this problem. There is such a diversity of opinion as to the best remedy for the problems confronting the wheat industry that if we continue to wrangle over them the growers may not receive any benefit at all. Pending the return of better conditions, I shall support these measures. 
I heartily agree with the principle enunciated by  Senator Gibson.  Indeed, he anticipated a good deal of what I intended to say. In schemes of this sort, we must be careful not to make presents to people who are not in need. 
That may be; but the mistakes of the past should not be perpetuated. 
I agree. I know of some localities in New South Wales  where, even under present conditions, wheat-farming can be carried on successfully. The wheat-growers in that district may not thank me for saying so, but numbers of wheat-growers in a big way have admitted that they can grow wheat profitably at 2s. a bushel, because they are farming excellent wheat lands which invariably experience a satisfactory rainfall. The principle of guaranteeing a certain price for the first 3,000 bushels, and that for any production in excess of that quantity the world market price should be accepted, is sound. I think that the Minister will agree that that would probably cover 75 per cent. of the wheatgrowers of Australia. 
So much the better.Wheat-farmers in a big way should, like the wool-growers, stand on their own feet. 
Many men can engage in pursuits other than the growing of wheat. Already many woolgrowers have their own dairy farms and grow considerable quantities of wheat. It is not necessary, and it is scarcely wise, for us to legislate for the big growers, who should be able to take care of themselves, but we should ensure to the large mass of wheat-growers a reasonable chance of a fair return over a number of years. 
I am not altogether in agreement with the principle of restriction of production. My objection is based on several grounds. I do not think that it is an exaggeration to say that, within a year or two, Australia may be called upon to feed millions of people who now are threatened with starvation. In those circumstances, I should not like our wheatgrowers to be bound and restricted unduly. It almost appears to be wicked to suggest a restriction of food supplies in view of the present state of the world. I shall support the bill, but I register my disapproval of the principle of restriction of food supplies at the present time. 
That interjection opens up the subject of shipbuilding, which I may not discuss now. I should like the Minister to say to what extent a dairy-farmer may grow wheat. 
That may cause hardship to many dairy-fairmers who have not regularly produced wheat for grain, but sometimes have a surplus for sale. Are these men to be forbidden to sell that wheat? I should like the Minister to enlighten me on that point. 
What will be the position of men in, say, the Hunter Valley, which, although a good wheat district, has suffered from droughts for several years ? Many men in that locality would, in ordinary seasons, have a surplus of wheat for sale. Would they be entitled to registration? 
They have not grown wheat at all during recent years, because the Almighty has not sent the rain to make it possible. 
That provision means nothing to men in districts where wheat would not grow during those years. 
The proposal of  Senator Gibson  would not injure any one. Under it, men engaged in wheat-growing in a small way would be protected, whereas others would have to look after themselves. However, as I have said,I appreciate the sincere effort of the Government to give some measure of stability to  a deserving section of the  community. 
I should like to know what quantity of wheat a farmer has to produce before he can obtain a licence. 
I  agree with  Senator Gibson  that the quantity grown in Australia is not too great. The time may come when we shall have to grow even more wheat for export purposes. At present drought conditions prevail, and the wheat yield has been reduced ; but that will not occur every year. I have always been opposed to a restriction of our wheat acreage. If too much wheat is produced, the crops can be cut for hay. I intend to support the bill because I believe that the wheal industry should be stabilized. I understand that this legislation was agreed to by the Ministers of Agriculture in  all  States concerned, but it is unfortunate that they did not take into consideration the cost of kerosene, crude oil, and many other commodities which will be used in the production of next year's crop. The sales tax on those items will increase the cost of production, and the result will probably be that instead of receiving 3s.10d. a bushel, the farmers will get only 2s. 9d. or 2s.10d. 
Farmers should be allowed to grow as much wheat as they desire, because, in adverse seasons, crops will be poor. The remedy for overproduction in good seasons is to cut the crops for hay. Anyone who has made the trip by rail from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie will have seen the large number of hay stacks along the route, some of which are new, whilst others have been standing for years. Unlike sugar-cane, which must be disposed of each season, wheat may be cut for hay and stored to offset over-production. 
I was pleased to hear the remarks of  Senator Gibson,  who was supported by  Senator Abbott.  Right down through the years many people have assumed, on quite wrong premises, that the remedy for the troubles of wheatgrowers is to spread an increased price for wheat over the entire industry. As  Senator Abbott  pointed out, wheat farmers in many districts are in a very happy position, whereas in other localities, with wheat at its present price, farmers are in difficulties. 
I trust that that will be done. I understand that when a way out of the recent political crisis was being sought a strong section of the Labour movement was opposed to any further advance on wheat, but was not opposed to assistance being given to wheat-farmers whose holdings are not large enough or are unsuitable for wheat-growing, or whose plight had been made desperate by drought conditions. It is the policy of the Labour party to assist needy farmers as much as is possible, but if assistance is to be in the form of an increase of the price of wheat, many farmers who do not require assistance at this stage will benefit. More money should be provided for helping men on marginal lands who have been affected by the drought. By giving assistance to them the Government will be doing what is right. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
 I am heartily in accord with the principle of stabilized wheat prices, but I agree with what was said by Senators Gibson and Abbott concerning the limitation of the home-consumption price to 3,000 bushels or 1,000 bags. That will benefit the small farmer who cannot grow wheat as cheaply as do the large graziers employing mass-production methods. A fundamental disability of the wheat-growers is their debt burden. A price of 3s.10d. a bushel is insufficient to enable them to meet their interest commitments and other charges and at the same time make a profit. After handling charges have been deducted from the price of 3s.10d. f.o.r. the price at country sidings is about 3s. 
I am opposed to restriction of production especially at a time like this when it is essential for us to produce foodstuffs. The farmers will not appreciate being licenced in a way similar to that in which wharf labourers are 'licenced. This legislation contains a direction as to the quantity of hay that has to be cut. I favour fodder conservation, but I object to the wheat industry being singled out in the manner proposed. If fodder conservation is to be enforced it should be applicable to all primary producers. As a rule farm properties near railway sidings have better productive capacity than the more distant farms. Many of the farms far distant from the railway lines are in the marginal areas. I contend, therefore, that the homeconsumption price should be fixed on a f.o.r. basis railway sidings, instead of the f.o.b. basis proposed in the legislation, because costs of production and cartage rise in proportion to the distance which separates farms from the railway  sidings.  Ibelieve that an f.o.r. price would eliminate the differentiation as between farmers which is inherent in an f.o.b. price. As the price of wheat is stabilized so should the price of bread be stabilized. When wheat was as low as1s.6d. a bushel the price of bread in New South Wales was 6d. a 2 lb. loaf. In the transition stage from wheat to bread there is an illogical rise of costs which results in the consumer of bread paying £28 a ton of flour more than the grower receives for the wheat from which that flour is produced. The producer is being robbed at one end and the consumer at the other. That calls for the stabilization of bread prices at a lower level. 
Will the Minister agree that the price of bread is too high ? 
It is a bad agreement. I protest again at the proposed limitation of production because I understand that the No. 2 Wheat Pool has already disposed of 170,000,000 bushels of wheat and that the carry-over totals only 35,000,000 bushels. 
 I am not concerned about that. If the carry-over totals only 35,000,000 bushels there is no need for a limitation of production. 
The Minister for Supply and Development,  (Senator BcBride)  closed his second-reading speech by saying that the Senate would appreciate the merits of the Government's wheat proposals. I do not appreciate any proposals which I have not had the opportunity to study. We have heard the Minister's second reading speech, but have not been supplied with a copy, and none but the Minister and his collaborators know precisely what is intended. Nobody who tries to understand what is meant can appreciate anything that is incompletely and inadequately presented. What are the Government's proposals. There are three bills which provide us with very little information, and apart from press reports and regulations, which have been issued from time to time, we have had no opportunity to learn exactly what is intended. I do not suggest that a book should be written, but it should  be possible to reduce to simple sentences in three or four pages what is intended. 
The- " skids " are being put under the wheat industry assiduously, ingeniously and periodically in order to make the industry a private bank monopoly. It simply means the elimination of the small growers. At the same time the Government extends its blessing to the farmers in the. plight to which they have been reduced. The small growers will slowly but surely be eliminated,, until, eventually, the wheat industry, like the sugar industry, is placed on a monopolistic basis. 
I know all about the ups and downs of the industry. Even when the farmers had a record ci-op they did not reap the full benefit from it, because most of them were obliged to hand over the proceeds to the banks. 
I believe in the payment of legitimate- debts, but not loaded debts. I shall1 not be misled by all the economic  artificialism  about which we hear so much to-day. I commend  Senator Gibson  for his outspoken opposition to- the principle of restriction of production. The honorable senator's remarks on this subject indicate the tendency among members of the Country party to agree with Labour's way of thinking. Gradually, they are realizing exactly where policies of the kind embodied in this measure are leading us. Restriction of production is advocated mainly in order to keep up prices. Itis a feature of all industries which are controlled by monopolies. Restriction of the production of wheat is wrong, when so many of our people are in. need of wheat and its by-products. The Government and its supporters can justify this principle only on the ground that, it increases prices. The same principle is applied! in the sugar, tobacco and other industries controlled by monopolistic interests.. That is precisely the essence of. the proposals embodied in this measure. Noattempt is to be made under this scheme to compensate the wheat farmers who will be starved off their holdings. The Government, of course, does not admit, that that is part of its purpose. In the light of past experience, however, I can only come to the conclusion that the object of this scheme is to reduce great numbers of wheat-farmers to the level of labourers working for sustenance or for the basic wage. That policy is being adopted not only in Australia but also all over the: world. It is the inevitable outcome of the economic policy of this and similar governments. .When the wheat industry is thus organized on- a basis similar to that of the. sugar industry, only the few will be privileged to draw dividends from it. But such conditions will be a menace- to the great bulk of the community who will not be able to procure wheat, and its byproducts, at reasonable prices, just as- to-day they are unable to obtain sugar, or products, made from sugar, at reasonable prices- 
No. I do not support any private monopoly be it in respect of finance, sugar, wheat,, timber or any other commodity. I. believe that the people should own and control the means by which they live, and that private monopolies should be absolutely excluded from industry. 
I now propose to discuss Labour's aims in regard to wheat and to contrast its policy with that to which the Government asks, us to give our blessing by supporting this measure. Labour has three essential aims: The first is to stabilize the wheat industry as a whole and to place it on a sound economic basis ; and secondly, to protect the small growers. The Government, on the other hand, intends that the small growers shall either be driven out of the industry altogether, or be reduced to the level of the dole, condemned, with their dependants, to exist for- the rest of their lives upon the very least that those in control are prepared to award them through the medium of unemployment councils, arbitration courts- and similar tribunals. Labour's third aim is to ensure that this vital primary industry, which is of such economic value to Australia, maintains a reasonable productive capacity. The Government proposes to eliminate from the industry altogether all of the growers who are now working land " which is claimed to be unsuitable for wheat. To accomplish Labour's aims, several guarantees and safeguards are necessary. Palliatives are not sufficient. I emphasize that the Government's scheme is nothing more than a palliative; it will merely prolong the agony of the wheatgrowers, who, in the meantime, will be gradually starved off their holdings. Labour proposes that plans must be made for the future, and that, in this time of stress, we must not only consider the position as it is affected by the war, but also take into consideration tlie probable world position after the war. That represents Labour's argument against the restriction of production. Labour says that, so far as is humanly possible, we should increase production, and, at the same time, increase our storage facilities. We cannot have too much of the things we need, but the danger always exists that we may not have sufficient of those commodities. 
I am dealing with ' the Australian industry and not with the Canadian wheat industry. I fail to see any logic in the honorable senator's interjection. I do not suggest that he is trying to mislead us, but he has simply made  a  bald statement without attempting to supply any evidence in support of it. Labour will safeguard the small farmer, and prevent the production of wheat from falling into the ownership and control of a few. That is a vital point. All of the schemes, palliatives, bonuses and expedients which have been adopted by this Government in the past have been designed solely to centralize control of wheat production in the hands of a few. I repeat that the object of this scheme is to drive out of the industry the small grower, or to allow him to remain in the industry only on a basis on which he will work for a small commission, or wage, in the interests of the private banks. Labour's policy can be summed up as follows : - 
A compulsory wheat pool established by the Federal and State Governments in cooperation, and controlled by the growers. The objects of the pool are - 1. (a) to control the disposal of wheat in Australia; (b) find markets overseas. 
Guarantee of 3s.  10jA.  per bushel on 3,000 bushels free on rail at ports for a period of five years.  (a)  In view of war conditions it may be that wheat will have to he stored in great quantities until favorable conditions will enable it to be shipped overseas. Wheat may therefore have to be stored by stacking of bagged wheat or in  silos.  The expense of all the storage and handling charges will be taken out of the pool and will not he deducted from the guaranteed price of 3s. 10id. 
Millers will pay a set price of 4s. per bushel regardless of any increase or decrease in world prices, to ensure that the public will obtain bread at a reasonable and stabilized price. 
I have often directed attention to the fact that the cost of producing wheat, in terms of labour time and gold, was never lower than it is to-day, yet the price of bread, in terms of depreciated currency, was never higher. 
When there is an increase in the price of wheat above 3s.  10½d.  a bushel, half of the increase will be set aside to enable the pool to repay advances made to it, or to build up a reserve or requisition fund. 
Thus should, wheat go to 4s. 10-Jd. - fid. extra will go to the growers, and fid. into the pool. 
The scheme to be financed through the Commonwealth Bank guaranteed by the Commonwealth Govern ment. 
The scheme suggested by the Labour party is tentative, and, if possible, would be improved. In the following statement a comparison is made between the proposals of the Government and those of the Labour party: - 
Under Labour's proposals agents' fees will be eliminated and consequently there will be no commission to pay which the farmer is being forced to pay to-day. 
When the farmer is protected to the fullest possible extent by the Commonwealth Bank, there will be no interest for him to pay, quite apart from agents' fees. One can imagine the happy position the farmer would be in then compared with his present plight. 
Under the Menzies  scheme  now operating a farmer has to take his wheat scrip, which has always been negotiable upon issue, to an agent, who takes his  commission  before the farmer can liquefy his scrip. 
That, I suggest, would be a substantial and much appreciated improvement. 
The Menzies Government guarantees 3s. lOd. free on board, which means the farmer pays all handling and storage charges at silos and stacks. Labour proposes to pay the farmer's charges out of the pool and the guarantee of 3s.  10½d.  is on rail at ports. 
Under tho Menzies scheme the guaranteed price of 3s. lOd. may be on only 1,500 to 2,000 bushels to the small man and probably 50,000 bushels to the big grower. Half the increase over 3s. 10d. would bo shared in the same ratio, the big man getting the bulk, whereas under Labour's scheme the small grower is guaranteed ;i fixed price of 3s. 10id. free on rail on 3,000 bushels and half the excess above that amount will be paid on 3,000 bushels to each grower alike. 
Under the Menzios scheme there is a definite danger of elimination of the small growers. 
The "big" man, in this case, would be the private financial interests. It cannot be denied that the ex-Leader of the Country party  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  said that the small grower would have to be eliminated - 
Compulsory curtailment in regard to acreage allowed under crop may easily prove disastrous to the small man- 
That is true. It is proposed by the Government to license farmers, and to determine how much wheat they shall grow. The Labour party claims that there should be no such restriction, and that the farmer should be allowed to produce a maximum quantity of wheat for his own requirements and to assist in the war effort. That would not be possible if restrictions were placed on the production of the essentials of life, particularly wheat - 
Under Labour's proposal for a guarantee on the first 3,000 bushels, economic considerations will govern the acreage that will be put under cultivation, and should stabilize the industry- 
It is proposed that those who grow the wheat, and are best able to judge what should 'be done as a contribution to the national effort, should be consulted. The matter will not be decided by half a dozen merchants, agents or monopolists. The Labour policy is to heed the voice of the man at the bottom who grows the wheat, not that of those at the top who make fortunes out of the labour of others. The statement comparing the proposals of the 
Labour pasty with those of the Government concludes as follows : - 
The Menzies decision also to take power to decide what portion of the farmer's crop shall be cut for hay is another danger. It is an unsound and unfair proposal. 
Again, the Labour party would have government from below rather than from above. Instead of a few monopolists controlling wheat production, and reducing the small growers to the lowest level of existence, the growers themselves should decide the conditions under which the wheat shall be produced. The Opposition does not appreciate the proposals of the Government, in the light of the fact that thousands of growers have been reduced to the level of paupers. In all sincerity, I suggest that the Government would be wise to hasten slowly, and consider every step it takes, before it attempts to give effect' to the policy embodied in these bills. Otherwise, the industry will be in a more serious plight than that in which it finds itself to-day. 
I support the bill. The stabilization of the wheat industry has been discussed in this chamber many times, and during the last ten years various conferences  between Commonwealth and State governments and representatives of the wheat-growers have been held with a view to arriving at the most effective means to stabilize the wheat industry. I do not agree with the remarks of Senators "Gibson and Abbott and some honorable senators opposite regarding men engaged in wheat-farming in a small way. This is a war-time measure, and it is our duty not to interfere unduly with the industry as that might cause its disorganization. Big farms which are suitable for. growing wheat are not always suitable for other purposes, because of lack of adequate water supplies, or for other reasons. The difficulties of the man farming in a big way may be just as great as those of the small wheat-grower. Indeed, I predict that many small growers will come through the present crisis better than those who are farming on a much bigger scale. I warn those who have opposed the bill against interfering unduly with the industry at the present time. As I have said, this is a war-time measure, and many alterations may have to be made after the war is over. For several years the price of wheat has caused concern, chiefly because many European countries which formerly imported wheat endeavoured to become more selfcontained and increased their local production of wheat. Some even became exporters of wheat. At the same time the main wheat-farming countries - Canada, the United States of America, Australia and Argentina - continued to produce as much as before ; they even increased their production in the expectation of new markets being found after the war. 
That is true also of parts of Australia. That is why I suggest that we should be careful not to "interfere unduly with the present organization of the industry. This bill conforms largely to what is known as the Wilson-Uppill plan, which I have expounded in this chamber previously. That plan, I believe, has the approval of the people generally; it has been accepted by the Labour party, various associations of wheat-growers throughout the Commonwealth, and practically every section of business and trade; it has also received the endorsement of the South Australian legislature. In the circumstances, the scheme now before us, which is almost identical with the Wilson-Uppill plan, cannot but have my approval. Reference to  Hansard  will show that about two and a half years ago  Senator Wilson  introduced into this chamber a bill which embodied the main principles contained in this proposal, with the exception that it was to operate in peace-time and did not interfere with the then existing trading conditions. As I have said, merchants and farmers and other sections of traders accepted the proposal, which provided for a stabilized price of 3s. 3d. a bushel f.o.r. at shipping ports. The proposal now before us provides for a stabilized price of 3s. lOd. a bushel f.o.b. shipping ports, which is practically the same price. Under the Wilson-Uppill plan it was proposed that farmers should pay into a fund  to be established 50 per cent, of . any price in excess of 3s. 8d. a bushel, and be entitled to draw from the fund when the price of wheat fell below 3s. 8d. a bushel. A similar provision is embodied in this measure. It was confidently expected that the Wilson-Uppill plan would be selfsupporting over a number of years, but the Commonwealth Government was to be asked to contribute 3d. a bushel to compensate for tariff disabilities. That proposal was in accordance with a recommendation of the Royal Commission on Wheat. This measure provides for a guaranteed price of 3s. 10d. a bushel, and for the money derived from the flour tax, together with an amount to be obtained from other sources, if required, to be paid into a fund in order to stabilize the price at 3s. lOd. a bushel. With the exception that the plan now before us will operate under war-time conditions, it does not differ greatly from the plan to which I have referred. The Government's proposal involves a restriction of production in that it is proposed to peg production at 140,000,000 bushels a year, which is the average crop for the last five years. Notwithstanding what has been said by some honorable senators opposite I hold that the granting of a guaranteed price necessitates some measure of restriction. Even though wheat prices have been low for several years, the world stock of wheat on the 1st July, 1940, was greater than at any time since 1927. The following table shows the world stock of wheat in each year since 1927 : - 

<graphic href="165332194012112_25_2.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures show that, although wheat prices have been abnormally low during those years, the world stocks of wheat have increased gradually. They emphasize the need for restriction if a guaranteed price is to be offered. I agree with  Senator Gibson  that unless care is taken difficulties may arise in the administration of this scheme. Its administration should be in the bands of a competent person who understands his job; otherwise it will be easy to disorganize the work of many farms. It may be that over a number of years a wheat-grower has sown an average of 400 acres a year, but his holding may be so sub-divided that in one year he sows 380 acres and in the following year 420 acres. Any attempt to force him to sow 400 acres every year might involve heavy costs in alterations of fencing, &amp;c, and give to his stock less satisfactory access to water supplies. In the control of acreage every care should be taken not to interfere with the economic working of farms. 
I agree with  Senator Gibson  that the provision requiring farmers to cut a certain proportion of their crop for hay may cause difficulties in some circumstances. I realize that the Government must have this power and I do not oppose it, but I emphasize that the success of this provision will depend largely on the administration of the scheme.  Senator Cameron  referred to land values. Generally the price paid for land is determined by its quality, its distance from the railway, and similar considerations. I know that mistakes have been made in the past, but, in the main, these factors have been taken into consideration in the price paid. It is not worth while tinkering at matters of this kind. It is not necessary to delay the passage of the bill because its purport has been thoroughly discussed by me, and by other honorable senators, on many occasions.  I emphasize, however, that the fall of the price of wheat, together with bad seasons, war difficulties, and the handling of the crop by the Government, have been serious setbacks to the farmers. Things have reached such a stage that bankers will not advance money to primary producers, and it is necessary for the Government to come to their rescue. Associated with the fate of the wheat industry is not only the welfare of the farmers, but also of the manufacturers and distributors, machi nery and other farming requisites. The farmers should be encouraged to give some attention to sidelines. The cutting of hay in good seasons is desirable, but it i3 a matter which must be handled very carefully. The farmers do not expect to make huge profits ; their main objective is to keep -in business .as are other sections of the community to-day. I am sure that farmers are quite willing to play their part in Australia's war effort so long as the returns for their labour enables them to carry on. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
.- The consensus of opinion expressed in the course of debate on this measure is that the stabilization of the wheat industry is advisable, but that production should not be limited. I agree with what  Senator Gibson  said, and I know that the figures that he quoted in regard to Canada are correct. This year, Canadian wheatfarmers have produced an enormous crop, in addition to a carry-over of 850,000,000 bushels, but production is not being restricted. Restrictions are being placed on the sale of wheat by allowing farmers to sell only one bag in four. Apparently the Canadian farmers believe, with  Senator Abbott,  that when the war is over millions of people will be on the verge of starvation, and will have to be given bread. For that reason it is good policy for us to continue to produce wheat some of which can be stored in silos. I once read that when an Egyptian tomb was opened, wheat thousands of years old was discovered, and, that when it was planted, the seed germinated showing that grain will keep indefinitely. It will be recalled that the Royal Commission on the Wheat Industry of which Professor Wadham was a member, stated that at that time mortgages on wheat lands in Australia totalled £161,000,000, yet the government of the day was issuing postage stamps bearing the inscription " Grow more wheat ". The farmers took the advice offered and grew more wheat, with the result that the price dropped to 2s. a bushel. The royal commission found that of that 2s. received, ls. lOd. was absorbed in meeting interest charges. Interest charges constitute the greatest burden which primary producers, business people and governments have to bear. There is an axiom in economics to the effect that price levels are governed by the amount of money in circulation. It is ridiculous to say that there is an overproduction of wheat when millions of people are only half fed, or are practically starving. If there be a surplus of wheat, it should be given to the people because bread is the staff of life. Feed the .hungry and there will be no need to build silos. The Commonwealth Government has decided to assist Australian wheat-farmers, but it is not obtaining the necessary money from the right source. It is merely piling up more interest charges, and when the price of wheat is stabilized, where will the money go? Not to the farmers, but to the bankers. I know of primary producers in Tasmania who have not seen a wool cheque or a wheat cheque for years. We live in a money economy, and all problems are related to money. A nation cannot carry on without money or bank credit. Why not employ the workless on building wheat silos because all the wheat grown may soon be required. Over-production of wheat started many years ago when a war seemed imminent. Italy produced wheat at a cost of 9s. a bushel as also did France, where surplus wheat was coloured green so that it would not be consumed. Limited production commenced after the last war, when farmers in England were fined for growing too many potatoes, despite the fact that millions of people were inadequately fed. The  Sir James  Orr commission on nutrition reported that 4,500,000 people in England had only 4s. a week to spend on food, while 6,000,000 had 6s. a week, and 9,000,000 had 9s. a week for the same purpose. Therefore, 19,'500,000 people had an average of only 6s. 4d. a week with which to buy food at a time when food was being destroyed, milk poured down the sewers, and production was being limited. That is what occurs under orthodox systems of managing a nation's economy. Orthodox systems will have to be discarded because, after the war, conditions will have changed. In listening to a debate in the House of Representatives I heard interesting statements made by competent wheat-growers who stated that this year's wheat crop has been barely sufficient to provide seed for next year. Restriction of production at a time when people are starving cannot be justified, and is contrary to the principles of economics. I support this bill because the wheat-growers should be assisted. In Western Australia last year I met a man whose family had occupied a holding of 1,000 acres for twenty years, but conditions were so bad that he walked off in desperation. As  Senator Uppill  knows, a resolution was passed in the South Australian Parliament by seventeen votes to thirteen asking that the Commonwealth Bank be used not only to finance the war, but also to rehabilitate the primary producers. That is the only logical thing to do. While this Government is taking a step in the right direction, it is not doing sufficient to save the industry. The royal commission which inquired into our monetary and banking systems reported that the Commonwealth Bank could advance interest-free money to the Government, or to others, which includes the wheat-growers. 
The royal commission was not in a position to dictate to the Government as to what it should do. Apparently, it expected the Government to have the common sense to give effect to the findings of the commission. 
These bills are necessarily restricted to the period of the war because the constitutional power required to enable the Government to do what it intends to do is wanting in ordinary times. Perhaps it is just as well that that should be so, because we shall be able to see the effect on the great wheat industry of what is proposed by the Government. It is of considerable importance to the country that this industry should be protected and the growers enabled to carry on. The industry is one of the fundamental economic foundations of this country. When it crashed in company with the wool industry in 1929, the whole economy of this country tumbled a'bout our ears, a fact which is not recognized by a number of our people even now. Let these great primary industries on ordinary occasions suffer and the manufacturing industries in the great cities will suffer in direct proportion to their suffering. I, in common with  Senator Gibson,  have a horror of restriction of production. To my mind it is wrong and the only justification that this Government or any other government has to interfere with the production of wheat is the fact that politicians are largely responsible for the unhappy plight of the wheat industry to-day. 
Oh ! Go back to the days of Adam Lindsay Gordon, when the doctrine of sub-dividing large estates was preached in the South Australian House of Assembly. Gordon used to recite a piece of doggerel - 
And now it's all U.P. with the squatter, 
The people are crying aloud for the land. 
They' ve made it hot, hut they'll find it hotter 
When they plough the limestone and sow the sand. 
That is what happened to the wheat industry. Government after government, hunting for the popular vote and following the theory now held by the Labour party, advocated sub-dividing, for wheat production, large pastoral areas in South Australia outside the Goyder line of rainfall. The same thing happened in Victoria andNew SouthWales. I can speak authoritatively only of those three States, but I have no doubt that in Western Australia there are areas which are used for growing wheat on which wheat should never have been grown. Those areas may be suitable for the wheat in the years of plenty, but not in the average year, because the rainfall is insufficient. 
Although I deplore restriction of production I do not think that the policy of the Government differs materially from the policy enunciated by  Senator Cameron,  who, if I understood him clearly, advocated limitation of the quantity of the wheat on which a home consumption price should be paid. That policy would have precisely the same effect of limiting production as would result from the Government's licensing scheme. Under that scheme, no person who is not at present engaged in the pro- duction of wheat may be licensed, but the scheme does not interfere with those persons who are established in the industry, although in the fullness of time the scheme will eliminate those who cannot produce wheat economically. 
I congratulate my South Australian colleague,  Senator Uppill,  although I do not agree with some of his views, upon the Commonwealth having decided to give effect in principle to the plan which  Senator Wilson  from time to time put forward as being acceptable to wheatgrowers. We do not want a full-dress debate on the wheat industry now, but there is a great deal more in the trouble which besets the industry than meets the eye. The decline of the wheat industry dates back to 1929. For a period of years, prior to 1929, the industry had been reasonably prosperous and profitable to the growers, but at that time the three great European importing countries, Germany, Italy and France, decided to limit their imports of wheat. 
Because they wanted economic nationalism, the principle of protection carried to the extreme. Broomhalls, the greatest authority in the world on the production of cereals, have estimated accurately that in the years which followed it cost Germany, Italy and France £250,000,000 more to supply what  Senator Darcey  described as the staff of life to their peoples, than it would have cost had they imported their grain requirements. 
But for it the world might have been at peace to-day. At all events, the Italian soldier would have had more stomach for fight if he had been nourished by good Australian wheat. The people of Europe are undernourished, as  Mr. S.  M. Bruce said on one occasion. They are being fed with artificial food. Why should people suffer when good food is going to waste? Why should Germany resort to the chemical treatment of its own grain in order to render it unfit for human consumption so that it will be available for chicken food? 
The Government is making a legitimate attempt to grapple with the wheat industry's problems. One thing is perfectly clear. It is of no use to make the wheat industry a political plaything. The debt burden of many wheat-farmers renders their position impossible. 
And they are continuing to do so. Sometimes that is caused by a desire to keep families together. "When the sons or daughters of farmers marry they are apt to buy neighbouring farms at inflated prices in order to remain in the same neighbourhood. Money for the purchase is obtained by mortgaging the formerly free property of the parent. When prices slump the farmer who has done that faces almost insuperable difficulties. The prices paid for farm lands are far too high. 
Another great difficulty confronting this country is the production of wheat on unsuitable land. The sowing of marginal areas resulted from the political clamour in South Australia for the cutting up of pastoral estates. I do not know whether  Senator James  McLachlan took any part in that clamour when he was a member of the South Australian Parliament, but I heard the politicians preaching land settlement at Pinnaroo. I saw representatives of the banks offering to finance people who would take up blocks. I was importuned to take up I do not know how many thousand acres. My friends Laurence O'Laughlin  and R. W. Foster, the latter a former member of this Parliament, were in the thick of the campaign. When I last visited South Australia on the hustings I went to a town neighbouring Pinnaroo and saw the grievous difficulties under which the farmers there are labouring. They went into wheatgrowing after the land had been taken up, paying excessive prices for land which, although it may be suitable for sheepraising, is absolutely unsuitable for wheat. 
Yes, and they thought that the boom was going to last for ever. There was plenty of money about at that time. For Heaven's sake expel the wheat industry from the political arena. In Canada, the United States of America and Argentina, where the governments have tried to control the wheat industry and get prices not justified by world conditions, trouble has occurred, with detrimental results to the wheat-producers 
The alternative is: Give the farmers a fair "go". The Lyons Government made available £12,000,000 for debt adjustment. In order to rid the farmers of their misery it may be necessary to provide a further £12,000,000. 
It was a measure to rectify what had happened as the result of the activities of the " talking machines " that advocated the farming of unsuitable land. Our moral duty is to assist the people who were beguiled by that talk. Even at the cost of another £12,000,000 we must get the wheat industry on to its feet. Then it must be left to work out its own salvation. Those primary industries which have been left alone and have formed co-operative organizations are doing well and if left to manage its own affairs the wheat industry will, in the long run, rise above its troubles. Experience has always shown that governmental control of the wheat industry does not pay. We must give them a chance to rid themselves, of their burden of debt. When we have done that, we shall be entitled in the future to say to any one about to engage in the industry that they do so at their own risk, and cannot expect the Government to accept any responsibility in the event of their failure. 
I do not think so. In view of our recent experience, I cannot imagine any future  government preaching to people to rush into any industry. Henceforth, I think, governments will prefer to leave the further development of established industries to those who know something about them. At all events, future governments would be well advised to guard against a recurrence of the difficulties which now exist in the wheat industry. Through this scheme, the Commonwealth will be enabled to say to the wheat industry: "We were partly responsible in encouraging you to saddle yourselves with a burden of debt; but now that we have discharged our responsibility in that respect, the industry must stand on its own feet". This bill, and cognate measures which will be introduced later, are designed to operate only for the duration of the war. I support the bill. 
 I agree with  Senator A.J.  McLachlan that the wheat industry is vital to our economy, but I disagree with him on several points. It is the duty of the national government to stabilize our primary industries, and to do all in its power to place them on a sound business basis. The honorable senator suggested that we should tend to leave our primary industries to themselves, but has it not been largely due to a policy of that kind that the wheat industry is in its present difficulty? The time has gone when the national government could afford to neglect any industry of the importance of the wheat industry. We must recognize that primary industries are being encouraged in other countries in accordance with the principles of economic nationalism, and that we in Australia are not immune from the incidence of the agricultural policies of those countries. 
I believe in the control of production. I do not like the term " restriction ". It has been wrongly applied in this instance. It is useless to produce any commodity for which no market exists. We cannot ignore the fact that the lack of markets has been the most serious problem confronting the wheat industry during recent years. It has been stated in this debate that the Scullin Government was responsible for encouraging production to a dangerous degree. I point out that at that time a definite market for wheat existed overseas, and as we were in a position to increase production, the Commonwealth Government acted wisely in encouraging the expansion of the industry. Most of our present difficulties are not of our own making; they are due principally to the incidence of agricultural policies of other countries. The bill is reasonable. Whilst I do not suggest that it will solve all of the industry's problems, it will, at least, assure to the grower a reasonable price for his commodity. In dealing with the problems of our primary industries, the Commonwealth should collaborate more closely with the State Governments. 
Whilst it is proposed to restrict areas for wheat-growing, no indication has been given as to what use will be made of the lands which are given up. Steps should be taken to provide against the recurrence of excessive production through intensifying production on a reduced acreage. The primary producer is entitled to a price for his commodity which will return to him his costs of production plus a reasonable remuneration for his labour. That is a reasonable basis on which to deal with his problems.  Senator Cameron,  in the course of his remarks, gave us some very valuable information. I compliment him on his diagnosis of the problems confronting our primary industries. However, I remind him that in this instance, we must go a step farther ; we must solve the problem before us. I thought that he was a little astray when dealing with the wheat industry, but he was certainly at sea in his references to the sugar industry. He stated that the policy of restriction of production in that industry had proved of great benefit to monopolies. As a matter of fact, during the last three or four years, the production of sugar has been increased by 100 per cent., whilst the price to the grower has decreased by 30 per cent. 
In a country like Australia, we should not be talking about restriction of production. Rather should we be discussing the organization  of production. It is useless to expend our energies in producing a commodity over the price of which we have no control.  Senator Darcey  said that if everybody received their quota of wheat and bread, the problems of the industry would disappear. The trouble is that our impoverished wheat-growers cannot wait for a solution of their problems until everybody is enabled to receive their quota of bread. I hope that that day will soon arrive. It is the duty of a national government to enable primary producers to receive a fair return for their labour. I admit, of course, that it is very difficult to organize production on that basis. In the sugar industry, we can control production to some degree through the mills; but not nearly to the degree which some people think. The capacity of the mills during the last four or five years has been increased by nearly 100 per cent., and the efficiency of the industry has been so intensified that to-day sugar can be produced at much lower cost than was the case even five years ago. At the same time, the consumers of sugar are receiving the benefits of that greater efficiency. However difficult the problem may be, the national Government, nevertheless, must do its best to ensure to primary producers a fair return for their labour. I believe that the general attitude of the Government towards the wheat industry is reasonable. I support the bill. I accept it as the outcome of discussions between the Commonwealth and the various State Governments. In guaranteeing to the grower a reasonable price, the scheme will greatly assist the wheat industry. 
.- The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  requested honorable senators to debate this measure fully. I think that the discussion has come up to his expectations. It is proposed to restrict the production of wheat to 140,000,000 bushels, in respect of which quantity a price of 3s. lOd. a bushel, f.o.b., will be guaranteed. Should higher prices be realized, half of the surplus will be placed in a trust fund to offset losses in bad times, and the other half will be paid to the producers. Growers are to be licensed, and the scheme will operate for the duration of the war and six months afterwards. Farmers  may be compelled in certain cases to cut their crops for hay, and they will also be obliged to furnish certain returns. I welcome the bill for the reason that it will lay a sound basis on which to build for the future. Of course, it will not meet with the approval of every one. Many people complain, for instance, of the principle of restrictions embodied in the measure. Every reasonable person realizes, however, that when the Government accepts responsibility for the stabilization of an industry, it has a right to control production in that industry. All legislation bears heavily on some sections of the people, and the Government's proposal for a restriction of the acreage under wheat production will prove one of the most troublesome features of the scheme. The quantity of wheat produced depends, not so much upon the acreage sown with wheat as upon the season in which it is grown. Last harvest yielded 220,000,000 bushels, but the present harvest, sown over the same area of land, will produce only about 80,000,000 bushels. 
Much has been said as to who is responsible for the present serious plight of the industry. This is due largely to the fact that efforts have been made to grow wheat on land unsuitable for that purpose.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan pointed out that, in South Australia, men had been induced to become wheat-growers in conntry where they had very little hope of success. After the introduction of superphosphates, wheat-growing was regarded as a most remunerative occupation, and many people imagined that they only needed a certain area of land on which to grow wheat to enable them to become wealthy. They urged the State Government to make land available to them, and the failure of many to make good was not the fault of the Government from whom they acquired their land. In South Australia, some farmers plant a few acres of wheat every year, but do not obtain a payable crop more than once every three or four years. They have other means of obtaining a livelihood; wheat-growing being merely a side line. Last season suited such growers, and they produced a considerable quantity of wheat. 
Reference has been made to the proposals submitted in the House of Representatives by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin).  In my opinion, his policy is not without merit. It has been supported by Senators Gibson and Abbott, both of whom are practical men, who consider that the scheme outlined by  Mr. Curtin  is preferable to that now propounded by the Government. I point out, however, that even if the sale to the Government by one farmer were limited to 1,000 bags or 3,000 bushels the scheme would require as much policing as that submitted by the Government. If it were stipulated that a grower could not dispose of more than 1,000 bags of wheat, various members of his family would soon have 1,000 bags each. It will be seen, therefore, that the licensing of the growers is essential.  Mr. Curtin's  idea was that the Government should pay 3s.10d. a bushel for 1,000 bags from each grower, who would then have to market the balance of his crop and take the world's price for it. The number of wheat-farmers in Australia is 53,000. If the Government limited the bounty on each farm to the production of 1,000 bags of wheat, the result would be a production of 159,066,000 bushels. Australia requires only 33,000,000 bushels for home consumption, and, therefore, having bought 1,000 bags from each farmer, would have on its hands 126,000,000 bushels. Would the farmer then have prior right to market the balance of his crop, or would the Government take the first cargo vessels available? If, instead of purchasing 1,000 bags from each farmer, only 500 bags were bought, the Government would still have on its hands 45,000,000 bushels after providing for home-consumption needs. The scheme propounded by the Government provides a basis for the stabilization of wheat prices in Australia. No doubt the good judgment of this Government or any other ministry that may succeed it would ensure that mistakes discovered in the operation of the scheme would be rectified. I commend the Government upon the introduction of this legislation. 
 in reply  - I appreciate the sympathetic consideration that the bill has received from honorable senators. Some years have elapsed since the predecessor of this Government brought forward a scheme for the stabilization of the wheat industry. Honorable senators will realize that the war-time powers of the Government alone have enabled it to bring forward such a proposal as that embodied in this legislation. When the States were last asked for their co-operation, certain States stood out and wrecked the scheme then proposed. The present proposals have been thoroughly discussed by representatives of all of the States and also by representatives of the wheat-growers, and have been accepted without hesitation. Whilst we as individuals may have our own ideas about the details of the scheme, the Government has the satisfaction of knowing that those most intimately concerned have accepted these proposals completely. 
The organizations to which I refer have their own way of electing their representatives. These representatives came to Canberra on several occasions, and discussed this scheme. They had no hesitation in accepting it on behalf of their organizations. The scheme has received commendation throughout Australia. Any person will have the right to obtain a licence and become a wheatgrower. The land upon which wheat is grown will have to be registered and extension of that area will not be permitted. 
The position in that regard will be the same as in the sugar industry. The area devoted to wheat-growing will be licensed, and, of course, the land could be sold to a person who might not already be a wheat-grower. There will be no limit to the use of that land, but there will be a definite limitation of the area that can be placed under wheat. Some honorable senators have criticized and objected to the limitations to be imposed under the scheme. The figure of 140,000,000 bushels, plus the wheat kept on the farm for seed and stock feed, covers the average production over the last six years, and, in my opinion, no hardship would be caused if for the present the production were limited to that quantity. The scheme will be subject to annual review, and, if the market prospects improve, there will be nothing to prevent an increase of the acreage under production. In this manner the Government will limit the extent of its liability under the scheme. I agree with  Senator Courtice  that, whilst the excess production of commodities could be indulged in in time of peace, our war effort would be impaired if commodities for which we had no sale were produced. I believe that the most that we can expect in the immediate future is that we shall market 140,000,000 bushels of wheat each year. Reference has been made to the quantity of wheat which has been sold out of the rather large crop reaped last year. On the 30th November last, 41,000,000 bushels remained unsold in Australia and, in addition, we had 36,000,000 bushels which had been sold, but not shipped. That is to say, there was stored in Australia on that date 77,000,000 bushels of last year's crop. 
I am afraid that  Senator Cameron,  in his enthusiasm, at times departs from the facts. In his diatribe against the Government and its policy the honorable senator alleged that his namesake in the House of Representatives had said that the small wheatgrower must go. That statement was not in accordance with facts. 
I assure the honorable senator that  Mr. Archie  Cameron never made such a statement, and I advise  Senator Cameron  to be more careful before making further statements of that character. The honorable senator's dissertation on wheat to-night was similar to a speech which he delivered some time ago in a wheat-growing district of Victoria. Having heard the honorable senator to-night, I am not astonished that the farmers who heard him took very little notice of his statements, because they were wide of the mark. I appreciate the sympathetic approach to this bill by hon orable senators generally, and confidently expect its speedy passage through the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to give effect to the provisions of the Wheat Tax (Wartime) Bill, 1940. It provides that the tax shall be payable by the wheat-grower, andwill be collected by the Australian Wheat Board by deduction from compensation due to the grower on account of the acquisition of his wheat by the Commonwealth. The amount of the tax will be assessed by the Wheat Industry Stabilization Board to be constituted under the National Security (Wheat Industry Stabilization) Regulations. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Tax payable by person from whom acquired). 
 As this legislation will remain in force for the duration of the war and six months thereafter, I should like to know how accumulated funds will be disposed of should the Wheat Board cease to function at the conclusion of that period. 
 Although this legislation will operate only for the duration of the war and six months thereafter, it is hoped that should the scheme prove its worth, the States will co-operate with the Commonwealth to continue the scheme after the war. However, should the States refuse to  co-operate,  the scheme would be abandoned and in that event, any accumulated funds would be distributed. All money derived from the flour  tax  would be allocated to the States for payment to the wheatgrowers, and any balance remaining in the fund would be distributed to the wheat-growers individually. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5  to  8 agreed  to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 This measure involves an important principle to which our attention should be given. I commend the Government for its action in introducing the bill, and T am sure that every member of the farming community will welcome it. This afternoon reference was made by an honorable senator to the cost of various royal commissions, and I take this opportunity to remind the Government of the existence of two reports by royal commissions which have been completely overlooked. When discussing legislation passed through this chamber, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  referred to constitutional limitations, and for that reason I think it opportune that I should remind him that it is time that the Government gave some attention to the findings of the Royal Commission on Constitutional Reform. I make that suggestion in all sincerity, because I am confident that the time will come when, by war exigencies, we shall be forced to exercise the greatest possible economy in Commonwealth and State spheres. I am sure that  Senator Darcey  will agree with my remarks about the other royal commission to which I shall refer. A great deal has been said in this chamber from time to time concerning the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems. The action which the Goverment is now taking could have been taken by implementing portion of that commission's report. I refer to the recommendation for the establishment of a long-term mortgage department of the Commonwealth Bank. Such a department would be one of the greatest benefits, to the farming community. Instead of this money being loaned to the States, and payments to individual farmers becoming, as they do, a matter of political patronage, the farmers could go to the Commonwealth Bank and obtain a long-term mortgage to meet expenses caused by the present disastrous drought. I know of farmers in my own electorate who, month after month, have to send to the Riverina,  400  miles away, for wheaten hay or oaten hay in order to keep alive their cattle in the Hunter district. Those persons have managed without any income whatsoever, and have been forced to draw upon their own resources, and to mortagage their properties to the private banks. 
.-This bill provides for payment of  £2,800,000  to the States, which in turn will make the advance to farmers who have suffered owing to the drought conditions. The States are being allowed a period of four years in which to make their first repayment of principal. The bill is good. Nevertheless, I object to one section of the community being given special consideration year after year. I should like the Government to indicate that it has a proposal to set aside  £2,800,000  or more for the purpose of assuring men who lose their employment in secondary industry of assistance until such time as they are re-employed, the money so advanced to be repaid after four years on terms similar to those provided for the repayment of the money to be advanced under this legislation. That would be a fine gesture, and it is time that it was made. We have seen one depression and we shall see another. When it comes there should be some provision to enable those who will lose their employment to be given something more than the dole. Loans on the basis of the loans provided for in this measure would be practicable. At present the industrial worker who loses his job has only one straw at which to grasp - the Mont de Piété or some other money lending concern, which charges exorbitant rates of interest. The farmer needs assistance and I, therefore, welcome this measure, but he is no more entitled to assistance than is any other member of the community. 
I am glad that  Senator Abbott  called attention to the failure of the Government to give effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems. Notwithstanding that a bill introduced by a former Treasurer  (Mr. Casey)  for the establishment of a mortgage bank passed the first reading in the House of Representatives, nothing further has been done towards solving the mortgage difficulties of the farmers. The proposal contained in that measure was for the sale of £8,000,000 or £9,000,000 worth of  inscribed  stock and even more debentures in order to find the money on which the bank would operate, in spite of the fact that the Commonwealth Bank had assets to the value of more than £90,000,000. If that bill had become law the result would have been disastrous. I am afraid we would have seen the last of the Commonwealth Bank. Honorable senators opposite laugh, but it is the laugh of ignorance. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! The honorable senator is not in order in discussing a mortgage bank.  Senator Abbott  did so, but he was out of order in doing so. 
I bow to your ruling. I have said enough to show the dangers. 
I do not object to the bill, but I wonder if the money to be distributed forms part of the £12,000,000 which was promised by the Lyons Government for farmers' debt adjustment. 
Had the Government carried out its promise to adjust the debts of farmers, the loans proposed to be made under this bill probably would not have been required. My principal objection to this measure is based on the fact that the £2,800,000 which is to be raised will be lent instead of granted to the farmers, whose debt burden cannot stand a further increase. 
Many of them will prefer to abandon their properties rather than add to their interest burden. 
I am not insular. I am a federal member, and I look at things from a national point of view. The Government should have carried out its undertaking to adjust farmers' debts when it appropriated £12,000,000 for that purpose. 
Only £6,317,000 up to the 30th June, 1939. Has the balance been distributed in the last eighteen months? 
Opposition Senators  -  No. 
Why not? 
If the Government really desires to assist the farmers, it should be courageous enough to make a direct grant. 
I emphasize the point made by  Senator Aylett,  namely, that the drought-stricken farmers should be helped with a grant direct from consolidated revenue. By that means, those in the best position to pay would do so. That would be equitable, because, when seasons are prolific and profits are large, the people who will be asked to lend this money to the Government reap most of the profits. It is a perfectly legitimate request that in times of distress the sources from which profits are drawn should be the sources from which relief is provided. As  Senator Aylett  rightly said, the lending of this money to the farmers will add to their burdens, and tighten their chains of economic servitude. This is not a proposition for relief; it is a proposition to prolong the agony, to bleed the farmers white and to reduce them to the lowest level possible. Probably when that level is reached, as it was reached in the United States of America, there will be repudiation, and the people who will make this loan will hold up their hands in holy horror  and point  to the poor starved farmers as being recreant to their trust. If  the  Government were sincere  and  intended to give the farmers relief, it would give the money to them and not lend it. All that the farmers ask is that they get hack from the pool a little of the money that  theyput  into it. I should not be doing my duty to the people who need help if I did notpoint that out. 
 This measure hasbeen introduced as the result of a conference between the Commonwealth and the States, with the exception of Tasmania. That conference agreed upon the manner in which these funds should be allocated. I understand that the Premier of Tasmania did not desire to share in the allocation. The sum of £2,770,000 will be accepted by the States as a loan from the Commonwealth, and the manner in which the funds will be disbursed will be decided by the States. They can distribute the money as they think fit, either by way of loans, or as straight-out gifts. 
 I support the measure because it will be the means of assisting many of our citizens who are faced with destitution. However, the Government has been dealing with this problem in piece-meal fashion for the last ten years. During that period the man on the land has been making superhuman efforts to overcome his difficulties. Surely the time has now arrived when the Government should endeavour to provide a permanent solution of this problem. If it is not studied from a national viewpoint, it will constantly recur. In this time of stress, when the Government possesses extraordinary powers, and the people are prepared to accept drastic legislation in the national interest, the Government should take this opportunity to handle it on a permanent basis. 
The capital values of the areas involved throughout Australia must be re-appraised. Most of the trouble is due to the fact that the people now in difficulty either paid too high a price for their properties, or because most of the holdings are not sufficiently large to yield a reasonable return. Unless this problem be dealt with on a permanent and nation-wide basis with the object of arriving at a definite solution, the day will come when our internal debt, like our war debt, will reach overwhelming proportions. 
 in reply  - I assure  Senator 
Abbott that full consideration will be given to the points he has raised. I point out, however, that the mortgage bank will not be designed to relieve a situation of the kind with which we are now dealing, because some of the farmers who will qualify for this assistance will have no equity with which to provide security for a loan.  Senator Cameron  does not fully appreciate the problems of the man on the land, or he would not suggest that the recipients of this money will not appreciate it because it is in the form of a loan. 
Every one realizes that farmers in need of assistance will be only too pleased to accept aid in this form. In any case, applicants will realize that they will be obliged to pay interest on the money advanced. If they are not prepared to accept assistance on that basis they need not do so. There can be no doubt, however, that farmers in necessitous circumstances will be only too pleased to avail themselves of this assistance, and when better times return they will cheerfully repay the money. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to grant and apply out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund a sum of £1,000,000 which will be made available to the States as grants for the purpose of drought relief to wheat-growers. Provision for this amount to be paid to wheat-growers, whom the drought has seriously affected,  was included in the amended budget proposals. Allocations to the individual States will be determined by the Governor-General in Council after the Minister has conferred with Ministers representing the six States. The methods to be adopted by any State to alleviate hardship suffered by wheat-growers within its boundaries in consequence of drought must be approved by the Commonwealth bef ore a grant will be made to that State. 
I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of this bill. Without being ungracious may I say that this measure is the result of collaboration between the Opposition and the Government parties with a view to improving the budget. 
 in reply  - The principles upon which the States propose to distribute the money must be approved by the Governor-General in Council upon the Minister's recommendation. That is the only way we can ensure that the money will be distributed only to those persons who are deserving of the assistance. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Payment for financial assistance to the States). 
. -Is this sum of £1,000,000 part of the unexpended balance of the grant of several millions made available some years ago for the relief of primary producers? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Conditions of grant). 
.- On two occasions bounties have been granted to wheat-growers, regardless of whether they were rich or poor. The bounty was paid even to members of this Parliament. I am in hearty accord with the main purpose of the clause, but careful classification of the growers is desirable. Well-to-do wheat-farmers would suffer no great hardship if they experienced an unfavorable season. 
I can only repeat that the grants must be approved by both the States and the Commonwealth. The bounty referred to by  Senator Keane  had no relation to drought relief. The Government does not intend to grant assistance under this measure to any person who does not actually need it. 
That matter will be determined by the Executive. 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the  bill  be  now  read  a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to grant and apply out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund a sum of £750,000 for the repayment to the Commonwealth Bank of advances made by the bank for the purposes of the National Security (Apple and Pear Acquisition) Regulations. By October, 1939, it was apparent that, owing to war conditions, the normal channels of marketing apples and pears would not be available for the 1940 crop. Those fruits did not appear in the priority lists of the Government of the United Kingdom, and it appeared extremely doubtful whether any of our. apples and pears would be exported to the United Kingdom. 
The Government was forced to consider new methods of disposal and marketing, and it was decided that acquisition by the Commonwealth of the 1940 crop of apples and pears, as from the 1st March, 1940, was the only means to avert chaotic conditions in the industry. Provision for an acquisition scheme was made by regulations which were promulgated under the National Security Act in November, 1939. 
It was necessary that finance should be provided for the Marketing Committee of the Australian Apple and Pear Board, which was the body charged with the administration of the 1940 acquisition scheme. Under normal marketing conditions, apple and pear growers receive assistance from outside persons or firms in the form of cash advances, fertilizer supplies and orchard requisites, for the production and harvesting of the coming crop. It was necessary that the Commonwealth, having decided to acquire the 1940 crop, should come to the assistance of growers to enable customary practices in regard to the production and harvesting of that crop to proceed. 
It was decided that advances should be made to growers, and that such advances would be offset against realizations from sales of fruit acquired. As a first advance, the Government agreed to make payments to individual growers at the rates of 2s. a bushel on apples and 3s. a bushel on pears, payable in two instalments, on 75 per cent. of the assessed crops of apples and pears. Crop assessments were made in January, 1940. As an inducement to growers to pick their fruit in its best condition, and expedite delivery to the marketing committee's agents the Government later agreed to pay growers a further advance of1s. a bushel on both apples and pears of prescribed quality delivered to the marketing committee. Funds were also required by that committee to provide for costs involved in the packing, transport and marketing of the fruit and for administrative and publicity expenses. 
In accordance with regulation 25 of the National Security (Apple and Pear Acquisition) Regulations, arrangements were made with the Commonwealth Bank to advance sums totalling £3,078,125 for the above-mentioned purposes, subject to the following conditions: - 
A guarantee in pursuance of the regulations to be furnished for the full amounts of advances made by the bank. 
The clearance of outstanding indebtedness before the 31st December, 1940. 
Interest on advances to be charged at the ruling rate for rural credits advances. 
Although the marketing of the 1940 apple and pear crop has not been completed, it is apparent at this stage that the operations of the marketing committee in respect of that crop will result in a substantial loss. 
Honorable senators are asked to approve the appropriation from consolidated revenue of the sum of £750,000, which will enable the Government to honour its guarantee to the Commonwealth Bank in respect of the deficiency between realizations from sales by the marketing committee of fruit which the Government acquired, and the total amount expended by the marketing committee in the administration of the acquisition scheme from moneys advanced by the Commonwealth Bank. 
It is not anticipated that the sum which the Government will he asked to pay the Commonwealth Bank by the 31st December, 1940, by reason of this deficiency will reach the figure of £750,000 which is now before honorable senators. It is desired, however, to avoid the necessity for a further request to Parliament, in the possible event of the amount for which approval is sought at this stage having been understated. 
A number of factors have operated to prevent the 1940 acquisition scheme from being a financial success. Honorable senators will remember the unprecedented weather experienced in all States in late March and early April this year. Not only was the estimated crop reduced by about 3,000,000 bushels, thereby upsetting the earlier assessments on which advances had been paid, but the abnormal conditions also had a detrimental effect on the size and quality of the fruit. The keeping properties under cool storage conditions were affected to such an extent that considerable repacking was necessary later in the season and costs were thereby greatly increased. Further quantities of fruit on which advances had been paid were lost at that stage. Moreover, the weak condition of many varieties, after removal from store, depressed prices, resulting in a fall in the anticipated proceeds from sales. Increased freights and insurance costs further inflated the marketing costs. 
Fortunately the Government was able to arrange for the shipment to the United Kingdom this year of about 2,000,000 cases of apples and pears at very satisfactory prices.Whilst this figure is much less than 50 per cent. of normal pre-war exports to United Kingdom and continental markets, the realizations from such shipments were an important addition to those from sales of the balance of the crops. 
I protest against the action of the Government in asking the Senate to consider this measure, unless further information is supplied regarding it. The bill has become necessary as a result of bungling administration. The matter has been investigated by the Auditor-General, and senators are entitled to be notified beforehand  of the  introduction of the bill  so that they may  be able to investigate  the position and  view the proposal  in  proper perspective. I understand that the bungling occurred, in the first instance, over the assessment of the crop. The Government proposes to pay to the growers 2s. a case in respect of 75 per cent. of the assessed crop. Probably because of seasonal conditions, the crop did not prove to be as bountiful as was expected. The fruit in many orchards was not picked at all. The  Government  paid at the rate of 2s. a case for large quantities of fruit which it did not receive; instead of paying for, say, 75 cases which it actually received, it paid for 100 cases. There is something wrong when such things occur, and this Parliament should cause an investigation to be made. I protest strongly against the. introduction of this measure at this stage. I ask that consideration of the bill be postponed until to-morrow, so that  we  may obtain further information concerning it. The Minister informed us that 2,000,000 cases of apples and pears had been shipped to the United Kingdom, but he did not indicate the proportion of apples to pears. I understand that the. apples realized 10s. a case, f.o.b. I submit that this Parliament should be given further information before it is asked to agree to the expenditure of this huge sum of money. 
.- In accordance with the policy of the. Labour party, I support the granting of assistance to whatever section of primary producers needs it, but I was amazed to hear the Minister say that the anticipated loss this year on this scheme will be about £750,000. Not many weeks ago the Minister told us that shipping space for fresh fruit would' not be obtainable. If that be so, it is probable that a similar position will arise next year. With  war  expenditure amounting ' to £186,000,000 this financial year, I suggest that this policy needs examination. I speak as a consumer. In the city where I live, apples and pears  cannot  be bought under 6d. or 8d. a lb., notwithstanding that the quantity of  fruit  produced is so great that it  cannot  be disposed of. Why is there a loss of £750,000 on this  scheme at a time when the people of Australia cannot obtain fresh apples and pears? I am credibly informed that large quantities of fruit have been destroyed. If the loss last year, when shipping was available, amounted to £750,000, I shudder to think what future losses will be. I ask the Minister to inform us how many growers are concerned, what shipping space is available, and what proposals the Government has in mind for dealing with next year's crop? 
The scheme covered by this bill has not the approval of the fruit-growers of Victoria, as will be seen from a communication which I have received from the Wantirna and Vermont Branch of the Fruit-growers and Primary Producers Defence League of Australia. It reads - 
We, the growers in tlie Melbourne metropolitan districts of Vermont and Wantirna, wish to bring before your notice the reasons why we are opposed to the acquisition of apples and pears. 
At the outset we wish to state that, in common with most fruit-growers, we fully realize that although we are willing to carry on without financial help, some assistance will be necessary to certain apple and pear-growers in Australia if they ave to carry on until the end of the war. 
We contend, however, that such assistance can bo given more cheaply and to better advantage to all by means other than acquisition. 
We wish to state emphatically that we are not grower speculators. We have for many years disposed of the fruit we have grown by the most economical form of marketing, that is by direct sales to consumers and retailers. It is from knowledge so gained that we have reached the conclusion that any acquisition scheme must be unfair and uneconomical. 
That may be ihe opinion of the honorable senator,  buI  arn giving the views of persons who are directly concerned. I submit that their opinions are worthy of consideration. The letter proceeds - 
In support of this we advance the following points : - 
It is generally realized that the apple and pear industry is a very difficult and complicated one to handle; how difficult only those who grow, pack and sell their own fruit can fully realize. In the first place there are multitudes of values. When the fruit has been reduced to varieties, grades and sizes, there are also values within those varieties, grades and sizes. Some packs have that little bit extra in appearance and quality which renders them more attractive to the best buyers, who are prepared to pay considerably more for these packs. 
High quality is not the result of accident, but of good orchard practice. We claim that it is to the best interest of all to encourage the production of better, and still better, produce. This, it seems to us, will best be encouraged by returning to the producer a price in keeping with the quality of the article lie produces, rather than by acquisition. 
Fruit is highly perishable, and we submit that it is only tlie grower who understands the keeping quality of the fruit he grows, also the time to market it in the best condition. 
The Melbourne metropolitan growers are tlie pioneers of fruit cool-storage in Australia, and we claim that our knowledge of this branch of the industry is unrivalled in Australia. Out of this knowledge we realize that any scheme which destroys a grower's personal interest  in his  fruit  is  under a tremendous handicap for this reason alone. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I am not prepared at this stage to rule that  Senator Cameron  is out of order, but I suggest that he should curtail his quotation. 
I am willing that the letter be incorporated in  Hansard  without being read, but if that is not acceptable to the Senate, I feel that it is my duty to read it. 
The honorable senator may proceed. 
Orchardists adjacent to Melbourne are under a very high production cost, and only manage to carry on because our marketing costs are low and because our fruit is marketed in perfect condition, and, therefore, commands the highest prices. 
Under acquisition these marketing advantages are lost to us and we are paid the same price in the orchard as are those districts on low production costs and high marketing costs. The result is that the pool makes a considerable profit on our fruit, which goes to offset the loss on fruit from the low-production costs districts. It has also the effect of upsetting a marketing system  built up over many years - a system which is definitely to the advantage of grower, retailer, and last but not least, the consumer. 
It should be realized that it is the consumer who must be satisfied. That is the essence of all good business. We contend that the consumer has not even been considered under the last year's acquisition scheme, and if the same people are to have charge again next year, better results will be unlikely. 
It is not reasonable to expect us to willingly allow the orderly and successful marketing system we have built up to be scrapped without recompense for an expensive and unwieldy experiment which is being handled by men who, we contend, are just learning now what our fathers learnt years ago. In support of this statement we respectfully request that you will thoroughly investigate the operations of the Acquisition Committee, and we submita few mistakes they have made which have come under our notice in Melbourne markets. 
Reasons for Inquiry. 
By the raising of prices of apples in the Queen Victoria Market on the 1st March by 2s. to 3s. per case, which was 50 per cent. to 60 per cent. increase, the Acquisition Committee fulfilled the fears of buyers, who naturally resented what they considered to be exploitation by a monopoly. 
In the early stages of the scheme locally grown fruit of the lesser wanted packs was stale and shrivelled on the selling floor because the lowest price acceptable was 5s. a case, irrespective of quality. This fruit could have been readily cleared had market price been accepted. Poor people could not afford the prices asked and this antagonized them. 
After the big fall of Jonathons, bestquality Jonathons were practically withheld from sale so as to quit windfalls. This antagonized the quality fruiterer, who could not supply customers who went without apples rather than buy poor-quality fruit. 
Many sales were lost because pears, which are essentially a hot-weather fruit, were almost unprocurable during March and April, and then only in a green state. Much heavier supplies were on the market during the winter months, when they were not so popular. 
Although March, April and May are the best and most economical apple and pear selling months, sales effected were considerably less than they should have been, because of the aforementioned reasons. This necessitated the cold storage of fruit, which was sold at reduced figures in the following three months. 
Locally-grown fruit, which could have been sold in open cases at a low marketing cost, was wrapped and packed in new cases for the Melbourne market. The extra marketing cost of this fruit to the pool was approximately 1s. 6d. per case. 
Tasmania fruit, which had been packed for us long as six mouths, was offered without repacking, even if known to contain a large percentage of faulty fruit. Had growers offered such fruit for sale, they would have been prosecuted, and rightly so. 
What is the use of advertising and boosting goods unless one delivers quality which will ensure repeat orders? How can the surplus be disposed of if the price asked is so high that it eliminates one large section of consumers? Most people do not buy all the fruit they would like to. They buy what they can afford. Thus,1s. buys 4 lb. of 3d. apples and increases sales by approximately 20 per cent. over 4d. apples. 
Summary of Case. 
We believe that if the Government does not proceed with the acquisition of apples and pears - 
That the Government will be saved a lot of unnecessary expense. 
That the crop will be marketed more economically. 
That there will be considerably more sales effected. 
That the growers will receive a higher net return ( at least cost of production ) . 
That consumers will benefit considerably by- 
Better-quality fruit, because the grower's interest in his produce will be reinstated, and fruit inspection enforced. 
) Lower prices, because heavy overhead charges will be removed. 
Competition, which is the life of the trade, will be restored. 
That communication was forwarded to me to be presented to the Government for its consideration. I do not claim to be an authority on the growing of apples or pears, or on the method of their disposal. 
I do not support anything to which I have not given the fullest consideration. If I were an experienced grower and could speak from experience, I could say whether I could support the statements, but when a communication is sent by an influential section of the community, it is my duty as a representative of the people to bring the communication before the Government for its consideration. These are the views of men directly connected with the subject-matter of the bill now before the Senate, although they may not be the views of the Government. Had the Government given more consideration to the views of those directly concerned, a great deal of dissatisfaction would have been avoided. 
The honorable senator has no proof that the scheme is being sabotaged; I do not accept mere statements as proof. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I do not hold that opinion. The bill provides for the appropriation of money from Consolidated Revenue to recoup the Commonwealth Bank for advances made to the Government to finance the acquisition and sale of apples and pears. Certain losses occurred and  Senator Cameron  is showing how those losses were caused. 
It has been the practice to allow honorable senators to read correspondence.  Senator Cameron  may continue. 
 I had no intention of taking part in the debate on this bill. You,  Mr. President,  have given a ruling, which we must accept; hut I ask what will happen if this practice be continued? The bill has nothing to do with the legislation under which a board was appointed to handle the Australian apple and pear crop. We are now told that this discussion is in order. Whilst I have no desire to delay proceedings at this late hour, and in spite of the fact that I wish to deal with a very important matter upon the motion for the adjournment, I feel impelled to say that this ruling opens up the whole question of govern mental control of commodities. One of the most important planks in the Labour party's policy is that additional governmental control should be exercised, not only in primary production, but also in secondary industries. Because of that, we, in Queensland, are very proud of the fact that the Government of that State takes control of the whole of the sugar produced in that State. 
I am not speaking of sugar; I am merely stating that an important plank of the Labour party's policy is that a greater volume of Australia's primary production should be brought under governmental control. The people whom  Senator Cameron  has been quoting are scabbing on that policy, and would have wrecked the whole acquisition scheme. Under your ruling, sir, the whole question of the acquisition of primary products is thrown into the arena, and any honorable senator who believes in acquisition schemes has a right to be heard. As Leader of the Opposition in this chamber I wish to make my position quite clear. I do not propose to allow, without protest, remarks to be made by any member of my party in opposition to government control. 
 Senator Cameron  has succeeded in bringing before honorable senators, and incorporating in  Hansard,  a plea on behalf of people whose interests are diametrically opposed to those of the working class. 
I am not lecturing any one. I am merely drawing attention to the fact that a certain matter which has nothing to do with the bill  has  been brought before the Senate. The Commonwealth Bank made certain advances which it is proposed to repay. The losses which occurred were due to unprecedented seasonal conditions, which not only prevented the anticipated quantity of fruit being marketed, but also seriously affected the quality of the fruit. I repeat that I am not trying to lecture any one. If we are to continue to have extraneous matters introduced into our discussions it will be very difficult to carry on the business of this Parliament. 
I am not referring to the honorable senator. 
If my friends cannot understand my point of view, I regret it. I am not criticizing the merits of their speeches. I only say that they were made on a bill to which they had no application. I do not want either of my colleagues to feel that I am referring to them. My reference was to the letter which was read by  Senator Cameron.  The writers of that letter desire to break down the apple and pear acquisition scheme. My protest now is not against this matter being raised; it is against such matters being discussed at an inappropriate time. The motion for the adjournment or an appropriate bill provides an opportunity for honorable senators to bring grievances before the chamber. It would sometimes appear that too much kindly lenience is shown by the Chair. - 
We are all more or less inclined to digress and eventually, if too much digression be allowed, we find ourselves in- a muddle. 
.- I sincerely hope that the Government will not take any notice of the letter read by  Senator Cameron.  The apple and pear acquisition scheme must be studied from an Australian basis and not from a State or city basis. For years the apple and pear industry of Tasmania has not only supplied the Sydney market, but also developed an export trade to Great Britain which has been of great value to Australia's economy. Under war conditions that export trade has ceased. Tasmanian fruit-growers have as much right to participate in the Melbourne and Sydney markets as they have a liability to pay taxes which are expended in those cities. 
Probably some of the passages in the letter read by  Senator Cameron  are true. There were many anomalies in the original apple and pear acquisition scheme; but the Government learned a lot from its operation. The loss of £750,000 that was incurred on the apple and pear crop resulted from bad administration. One instance of bad tac dcs was the removal of apples from cold storage in Melbourne and their shipment to Sydney where they sold at about ls. a case, which was insufficient to meet the freight. Another instance was transporting apples and pears to a ship that was fully loaded and tipping of the fruit into the water when it was found that it could not be shipped. That occurred when children were starving. In Tasmania, owing to the marketing restrictions, fewer apples were consumed last year than in previous years, in spite of the fact that more were available owing to the interruption to the export trade.  Senator Cameron  wishes to destroy the acquisition scheme. 
The people who prepared the statement, which was read by the honorable senator, waited until mines in Bass Strait prevented Tasmanian growers from reaching the mainland market before they showed their hand. The growers in Victoria and in New South Wales should know that if sufficient ships were available to take the Tasmanian crop to the mainland, where it could be sold in open competition, Tasmanian growers would sweep the market. Especially in this crisis,  we must have orderly marketing, not only of apples and pears, hut also of all commodities. The need for orderly marketing will be demonstrated more than ever in the coming season because a quantity equal to the 2,000,000 cases of apples and pears, which were shipped to the United Kingdom last year, will in all probability remain in Australia this year. The Apple and Pear Marketing Board, therefore, will have to dispose of at least 2,000,000 more bushels this year than last year. No doubt there will be a loss on the fruit, but with proper administration it ought to be kept down to a minimum. The prices for the ensuing year will not be so bad when cost of cases, packing, &amp;c, are added. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Appropriation for repayment of moneys advanced by Commonwealth Bank). 
.- Will the Minister  (Senator McBride)  tell me what interest had to be paid on the money to be appropriated under this bill ? 
Why was interest charged when all the profits of the Commonwealth Bank go back to the Government? 
Clause agreed to. 
Preamble agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 12 midnight to 12.45 a.m. 


 Thursday, 12 December 1940 

. -I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the bill is to restore the payment of a bounty on the production of wire netting in Australia. Prior to the 3rd May, 1940, bounty was payable at the rate of 9s. 7d. a ton, but owing to the definition of "duty of customs" in section 3 of the principal act passed in 1939, the imposition of a special war duty under the customs tariff (special war duty proposals), which came into operation on that date, had the effect of cancelling the bounty previously payable. 
In section 8 of the principal act the rate of bounty is prescribed at 9s. 7d. a ton, but it is provided that if the rate of duty be increased such reduction shall be made in the rate of bounty as is equivalent to that increase. The rate of duty under the intermediate and general tariffs prior to the 3rd May, 1940, was £5 a ton, and the special war duty proposals imposed an additional duty of 10s. a ton. As the increased duty was more than the rate of bounty the payment of bounty ceased. Wire netting is free of duty under the British preferential tariff, and the special war duty would not apply to any importations coming under that tariff. Actually wire netting is not being imported into Australia, and, consequently, no special war duty is being collected. Thus the increase of duty is only theoretical and does not give any advantage to Australian manufacturers. 
The Tariff Board's report of the 30th May, 1939, expressed the opinion that the bounty could be withdrawn without detriment to the wire netting industry, but the Government decided to continue the bounty in order to afford the Western Australian Netting and Wire Company Limited, Western Australia, a reasonable opportunity to establish its operations on a firm footing. That company suffers the disadvantage of having to pay full freight on wire rods procured from the eastern States and to sell the finished product at the common c.i.f. price which applies to all main cities in the Commonwealth. 
Without the bounty the position of this company would be gravely affected. Moreover, the Government is of opinion that it is sound and expedient for national reasons to encourage manufacture, wherever possible, in more than one State, especially if the State concerned be far distant from other sources of Australian supply, and is a substantial user of the product being manufactured. 
Clause 2 of the bill makes provision for the amendment to operate as from the 3rd May, 1940, the date on which the special war duty proposals came into operation. Clause 3 amends the definition of " duty of customs " by excluding any duty expressed by a customs tariff or customs tariff proposal to be imposed as a special war duty of customs. The definition, as amended, reads - " Duty of customs " means the duty of customs chargeable in pursuance of any customs tariff or of any customs tariff proposal introduced into the House of Representatives, but does notinclude any duty expressed by the customs tariff or customs tariff proposal to be imposed as a special war duty of customs. 
I support the measure principally because it seeks to encourage an industry which is being firmly established in Western Australia. Indeed, the manufacture of wire netting is one of the few secondary industries established in that State. The State Government is giving every support to that industry. It has been said that the Netting and Wire Company of Western Australia is linked financially with the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. Actually, there is no connexion between the two firms. I also point out that under this legislation profits are limited to 6 per cent. 
I take this opportunity to emphasize the need, from a defence point, to decentralize industries. I have prepared much material to show that this measure is thoroughly justified. However, as honorable senators unanimously support the bill, I shall not, at this late hour, delay its passage through the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to validate the agreement of the 20th November between the Commonwealth and the Commissioner of Waterworks for the State of South Australia for the purchase of water under what is known as the MorganWhyalla water scheme. This scheme provides for the building of a pipe line, with the necessary pumping stations and reservoirs, from Morgan, on the River Murray, to Whyalla, on the western side of Spencer's Gulf, and is designed to provide a water supply to the districts as. far north as Port Augusta, and to new industries at Whyalla which can only be established at that centre provided an adequate supply of water is made available. 
The agreement is for a period of twenty years, and provides for the purchase of water for Commonwealth railways purposes at Port Augusta at the rate of 2s. 4d. for each 1,000 gallons. The Commonwealth has agreed that, regardless of the quantity of water used by the Railways Department, it will make minimum payments to the State, during each year of the currency of the agreement, equivalent to one-half of any loss that the State may incur during the year in Working the undertaking, but not exceeding the sum of £37,500 in any year. Should the loss in any year not exceed £25,000 the Commonwealth will not be called upon to make any payment under the minimum payment clause of the agreement, but will be required to pay only for water actually used. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I ask honorable senators who intend to speak at this stage to make their remarks as brief as possible. The officers of the Senate have had a very busy day, in consequence of the House of Representatives sitting throughout last night, and have yet to prepare for the meeting of the Senate to-day. 
In view of the hour, I should not attempt to discuss at this stage the subject which I am now about to raise, but for the fact that probably I shall not have another opportunity to do so. I draw the attention of the Senate to a state of affairs developing in Australia which is entirely inimical to the best interests of this country. I shall preface my remarks by quoting the following statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  : - 
It would be, in ray opinion, a cardinal error to assume that if this war lasts for three years, we will at the end  at  it revert to just the same economic structure and life as we had last year. 
When it is realized that on the war hypothesis I have stated (that is, a three years' war) we will have behind us three years of intense experience of financial control, of trade control, of price control, of bulk selling and of bulk buying, it will be at once seen that nobody can foretell what changes of a permanent kind in the relations between government and business may be produced by the present struggle. 
The government is not hostile to change hut it desires that whatever change comes about should be for the good of the Australian people. 
With every word of that statement I entirely concur. However, there are individuals who do not view with satisfaction the possibilities outlined by the Prime Minister. For example, a gentleman, who was very much in the public eye some four years ago, has, recently, together with others who agree with his views, resumed activities of the kind which previously won him notoriety. I refer to  Mr. Eric  Campbell, who, when he was leader of the New Guard, said - 
The spiritual and moral inspiration of Fascism is the hope of civilization. Politically, it is the only possible evolution of democracy. 
I do not know whether honorable senators are aware that there exists in the two principal States of Australia an active organization whose objective is to overthrow that form of government to which we who belong to the British Empire are accustomed. Whatever the political colour of the government of the day may be, I shall strongly object to its being attacked by such methods. 
Men are being drilled and armed for no other purpose than to interfere with the orderly forms of government at a time considered in certain quarters to be appropriate. If honorable senators desire confirmation of my statement, I suggest that they confer with some of the men concerned in the movement to which I refer with whom they are acquainted. If they get in touch with the heads of some of the big firms in Sydney and Melbourne, it will be found that they have key men who are known only by numbers, and are drilled in the use of arms, so that when, in the opinion of their employers and of those who have made these subversive statements, their business is threatened by a government which would not be pliable to their demands, action could be taken. A definite demand is being made to arm the branch of our defence forces which is willing to undertake home defence duties. Members of rifle clubs are being specially detailed for their ordinary practice and are to be given a distinguishing mark, so that in time of trouble they will be available. The kind of trouble referred to is similar to that which may be expected from the governments overseas which are responsible for the present war. Ths Investigation Branch of the AttorneyGeneral's Department has an elaborate organization which is doing very effective work, and it should be asked to inquire whether what I have stated is correct. 
My information has been obtained from some of the men who are doing the duties to which I have referred. They are brought together at night by means of secret information. They are taken to places obscured from the public gaze and are drilled in the arts of war. 
In New South Wales and Victoria. I do not know about the other States, because the capitalist order of society has not been developed so viciously in those States as it has in New South Wales and Victoria. I know that when Eric Campbell was operating, it is little short of a miracle that there was not a clash of armed forces in Sydney. Honorable senators need not appear to be surprised. On the 22nd November, the following statement was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald :  - 
The Assistant Minister knows something about the force to which I have referred, and I do not propose to argue with him. The report continues - 
The congress began the debate immediately after a visit to the House of Representatives. 
I shall read the report again, if the Assistant Minister desires me to do so. I am very dissatisfied with the answer given to me in reply to my question yesterday. It was obviously an attempt to burke further publicity on the matter The Assistant Minister seems to doubt the statements that I have read from the  Sydney Morning Herald,  but they are all quotations, and the reporters are being put through the "third degree" regarding them. The report was shown to  Mr. Robb  after he had made his statement and he expressed approval of it, making only one minor alteration. Yet these reporters are being pilloried before the inquiry, and treated as having been convicted, before they have had a chance to state their case, whilst they are not allowed the advantage of legal representation. 
The report states - 

 Mr. Menzies should take full powers to himself and become a dictator. If he did so, and the" members of other parliamentary parties did not support him, we returned soldiers would see that he was able to carry on. 
That is the statement made by  Mr. Robb. 

 - Mr. Robb made that statement in Canberra at the federal congress of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, which was assembled at the Seat of the National Capital. There is no doubt that a faked photograph was taken of the Parliament in session, and that the figures of members were eliminated from the picture in order to justify a statement that the House was empty, and that members were not carrying out their duties. On the authority of the Prime Minister 
I say that Australia will never return to the conditions existing before the war. There are people in this country who are definitely determined that the forecast of the Prime Minister shall not come true. I am confident that the Prime Minister has no sympathy with the proposals to which I have referred, but he did say, and we all believe, that we shall never return to the conditions that existed before the war, but that there will be in the future a different and, we hope, a better order of society. It may be a modified form of socialism or it may be - although I hope that it will not be - some form of communism. But if these interests are not checked it will definitely be a Fascist organization. There are men in this Parliament, particularly in the other branch of the legislature, who are not behind encouraging the Fascist idea that is already abroad in the community. I should not be half so demonstrative if honorable senators opposite did not sit in their places, with smug looks of satisfaction and indifference on their faces, and, by interjection, suggest that there is nothing in what I say. There is not a man connected with big business in New South "Wales or Victoria who does not know that the organization referred to in this paragraph is definitely at work trying to put into operation what is said here. 
I could give to the Minister the names of some of them. I have in mind one particular gentleman who is connected with the operations of the political party to which the Government and most of its supporters belong. At the moment, I shall not indicate him by name ; I shall make the revelation at the appropriate time. The quotation continues - 
After a debate characterized by bitter criticism of politicians- 
What impudence on the part of the congress to indulge in bitter criticism of politicians ! 
Just because we do not do the job according to their views - they referred, not to Government supporters, but to members of the Opposition - they indulge in bitter criticism of politicians. Because we on this side have at least the semblance of political honour and decency, we resent this criticism. The paragraph reads - 
After a debate characterized by bitter criticism of politicians, the congress decided to appeal to all political parties in- the Federal Parliament to submerge their differences and agree to the immediate formation of a national government for the duration of the war. 
There is this wrong with it - the Government parties were allegedly seeking the formation of a national government, while the party to which I belong was opposing it. The congress was not attacking the Government; it was attacking the Opposition. This element will not get away with attacks on the Australian Labour party without protest. The report continues : - 
The congress began the debate immediately after a visit to the House of Representatives. 
Having taken a photograph of the House of Representatives, when most of the members were in their places, they, or their photographer, faked the negative to make it appear that only one or two members were in their places. 
Either members of the organization or their photographer. If the Assistant Minister thinks he can intimidate me by getting me to say either this or that so he can pin me down to certain words, I assure him that he is making a mistake. I shall see this thing through to the limit. Every opportunity that presents itself in this Parliament I shall use as I become possessed of the facts. 
I shall continue to read from the  Sydney Morning Herald.  Under the heading " Not doing their job," the following paragraph appeared : - 

 Mr. W. IX Sharland (South Australia) said: After watching to-day the fashion in which Parliament operates, I am disgusted and amazed. 
What would happen if, during our deliberations in this chamber, some person in the gallery rose and said : " After watching to-day the fashion in which Parliament operates, I am disgusted and amazed " ? I imagine that the Usher of the Black Rod would immediately be despatched to escort the offender out of the building. Honorable senators opposite would resent such a statement if said in their hearing. But they dismiss this newspaper report without protest because they know by whom it was said and to whom it referred ; it referred not to them, but to us. The paragraph continues : - 
Delegates: So are all of us. 
The congress was not a gathering of a few persons, but a big delegation drawn from all parts of Australia. 
I do not know. But I do know that if my figures are multiplied many times, the result would not he far out. 
How many did they represent? 
I remind the Senate that I am quoting from a reputable newspaper which is no friend, of the Labour party. I refer to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  Apparently, the delegates were all disgusted with the way in which Parliament was operating. That is a reflection on the control of Parliament by the Government. The report proceeds - 

 Mr. Sharland: If this is the best that democracy can manage the sooner we have a dictator the better. Not just a few, but the greatest number are not doing their job. 
I ask honorable senators to mark those words - " If this is the best that democracy can manage ". They make clear that if democracy could not do better they would have the dictatorship to which  Mr. Robb  had referred earlier. The advocacy of a dictatorship is there with all its ugly implications. Of the 36 members of the Senate, more than one-half of them, according to  Mr. Sharland,  were not doing their job. If we are not doing this job - I say this to all honorable senators - we ought to he impeached and hounded out of this Parliament for taking the taxpayers' money fraudulently.  Mr. Sharland  went on to say - 
We will have to tell them that, unless they do it, wo ourselves will take over the government. 
By that he meant, not the delegates present, hut the league which they represent. 
First, I am told that only twenty delegates were present. 
I was under the impression that that was so. Butit does not matter how many were there, because the twenty delegates, or whatever the number was, represented thousands of returned soldiers, members of their organization throughout Australia. 
Thank goodness for that ! What does it matter how many were there? The delegates represented the league, and spoke in the name of the league when they said, " Unless they do it, we ourselves will take over the Government". There is no doubt as to what that statement meant. Let me continue to read from the  Sydney Morning Herald - 

 Mr. L. A. Robb: Every indvidual member of Parliament should be compelled to take the oath of allegiance separately. 
Do we not now take the oath separately? I myself do not take the oath, and for that reason am always left to the last; but when I make an affirmation, I mean every word that I repeat. Although members are sworn in in batches, as they were recently in the House of Representatives - each of them is handed a Bible on which to declare his allegiance upon his solemn oath. In the name of all that is just and decent I ask what right these men have to question the loyalty of any member of this Parliament? Is it to be suggested that men who take a solemn oath do not mean it? When I was a younger man, a person who said what Mr.Robb is reported to have said on this occasion would not have got away with it in my hearing. I am not a pugilist, but there is enough resentment in me to take exception to a statement of that kind. 
I am like the Irishman who said, " I believe in peace, and will go to war to get it ". The report of  Mr. Robb's  statement continues :  - 
That is the only way in which we can make sure that they will all swear allegiance to the King (applause). I say there is one man in particular in the House to whom this remark applies, and I call upon him to take notice. 
Was that a threat of personal violence to an unmentioned individual? There are 36 members of this chamber and 74 in the other branch of the legislature every one of whom is under suspicion. I cannot identify the man to whom the remark was intended to apply, but if I am told that I am the man, there will be something doing. If  Mr. Robb  thinks that he can make me alter my conduct in this chamber he is at liberty to try. The report goes on to say - 
All of us here know who he is. How the devil do we expect the job of winning the war to he carried on by such fellows. 
When the soldiers overseas return, they will be so fed up with the political situation that they will take over the Government, and when they do, we soldiers of the last war will say God bless them and stand at their side. 
Will they stand at their side with their hands folded and empty? That statement contains a definite threat of force. All honorable senators remember the sad day in this chamber when the news came that France had collapsed. They remember other sad days when we were informed that one after another European country had also collapsed. A new word has recently been added to our language; every one knows what it is to be described as a " Quisling " or a " Fifth columnist ". There may have been other reasons for the collapse of France, but I say definitely that one of the reasons for that collapse was the existence of numbers  of " Fifth columnists " who had been at work to undermine the French nation. If we allow such things to happen in Australia, and the people in our midst can make statements of that nature in order to gain publicity, the Government will have to get its investigation officers on the job quickly, or we shall have in Australia an army of " Quislings " and " Fifth columnists " who will endanger the nation. I ask the Leader of the Government to ensure that the gentlemen who, through no fault of their own, are on trial are permitted to be represented by counsel. There should be a public inquiry, as only by that means will the uneasiness that exists in the minds of the people be removed. Had this man Robb been an ordinary member of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, and not the private secretary to the Governor of New South Wales, there would not have been this whitewashing inquiry, which is merely designed to protect a man who is quite capable of protecting himself. I hope that the Commonwealth Investigation Branch will be instructed to inquire into the whole of the circumstances, and, if necessary, I can give officers of that branch some useful information. I trust that the Prime Minister will instruct the Public Service Board to give these young fellows a chance. The New South Wales branch of the Australian Journalists Association is prepared to brief counsel to defend them, knowing that they are honorable men, and that their employment is at stake. At least let justice be done. 
Motion (by  Senator Dein)  proposed - 
That the question be now put. 
In supporting the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I should like to mention that  Mr. Robb  made the statements attributed to him, which were supported by Sharland and Thackaberry, onthe 21st November, and on the 24th November he denied having made them. That denial was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 25th November, and at the end of the article in which they were denied the editor of that newspaper added the words, " We are satisfied that  Mr. Robb  was not misreported in the  Herald ".  He at least stood by the men responsible for the report. The unfortunate feature of the matter is that the statements complained of were made at a returned soldiers' congress. I do not know whether the returned soldiers were having a merry party, but the fact remains that pro-Fascist statements were made and the pressmen who reported the proceedings have been arraigned before a court, and gestapo methods are being employed. In Germany the Gestapo would adopt tactics similar to those being adopted in this case. 
I am no more in favour of the O.G.P.U. than I am of the Gestapo. It is interesting to note that about the time the statements were made  Sir Walter  Citrine, general secretary of the British Trade Union Congress, speaking at the annual convention of the American Federation of Labour, which he attended as a delegate, said: "I want you to make the American workshop democracy's first line of defence. Britain will fight until the dictatorships in Europe are abolished." While that appeal was being made to the workers of the United States of America to assist Great Britain in its war effort, persons like Robb, Sharland and Thackaberry were telling a conference of returned soldiers in Canberra that the Prime Minister of this country should be set up as a dictator. A precedent for subversive activities was established some time ago when members of the New Guard, led by  Colonel Eric  Campbell, drove in motor cars to Banks town and battered people with iron bars. 
It was before De Groot was placed in an asylum for being so stupid as to out the ribbon which was to be severed by the person who was to declare the bridge open. It is interesting to note that Brigadier-General Lloyd, who was associated with Colonel Campbell in. the  New  Guard organization, is now a general in our Military Forces. De Groot is now an officer in the military forces. The New Guard is not a defunct organization. It is still in existence, and people such as Robb and his associates, are endeavoring to stir up public opinion. Gestapo methods have undoubtedly been employed in connexion with the inquiry now being held into the statements attributed to  Mr. Robb,  and the " third degree " is being used. Gestapo methods have even been introduced into this Parliament because, knowing that it was my intention to pursue this matter further,  Senator Dein,  acting on behalf of the Government, attempted to stifle discussion by moving " That the question be now put ". The Government does not like the spotlight to be focused on this subject, but I assure honorable senators opposite that there are forces in Australia which will drive out of this country all Fascists and others such as  Mr. Robb,  guilty of subversive utterances. There are many who profess patriotism, but who have no hesitation in letting their country down. In other countries traitors havebeen found in all classes of society. We must banish the Leopolds and Quislings in our midst. I am confident that unless the Prime Minister gives an assurance to-morrow that some action is to be taken against  Mr. Robb,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and members of his party, will soon have an opportunity to control the business of this country. People engaged in subversive activities should he placed in an internment camp - where they belong. 
On the 11th December  Senator Clothier  asked the Minister for Supply and Development the following questions, upon  notice: - 
Will the Minister state the number of employees, (a) male and (b) female, engaged on munitions work in the Commonwealth? 
Will he give the figures also for the various States? 
Will the Minister state the amount of salaries and wages paid to. these employees in each State? 
I am now in a position to supplythe following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The latest figures of employees in the munitions factories and annexes under direct governmental control and in the principal establishments engaged on service aircraft construction are (a) 25,330 males, (6) 5,837 females. 
Males: New South Wales, 6,368; Victoria, 17,015; and South Australia, 1,947. Females: New South Wales, 475; Victoria, 4,335 ; and South Australia, 427. These figures do not take into account annexes which are in course of coming into production or the many thousands employed throughout the Commonwealth directly or indirectly upon work connected with the production of munitions and aircraft components carried out by firms under contract or sub-contract arrangements, as information under this category would be difficult if not impossible to collate. 
The approximate amount of weekly salaries and wages paid is: New South Wales, £41,938; Victoria, £110,349; and South Australia, £12,203. 
I do not intend to enter into a controversy with honorable senators opposite concerning statements alleged to have been made by the  president  to the New South Wales branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, 

 Mr. L. A. Robb, but it ill.becomes them to associate Gestapo methods with the inquiry which is now being held into his alleged utterances. In view of the fact that  Mr. Robb  is virtually on trial, honorable senators opposite have not displayed good taste in discussing the case, and are suggesting that Gestapo methods are employed, because the method of the Gestapo is to punish people on the mere assumption of guilt. Honorable senators opposite have declared  Mr. Robb  guilty before his case has been decided. 
At the moment, I shall not discuss that aspect of the matter. The inquiry was ordered by the Government, of which  Mr. Robb  is an officer. If he has made unwise or subversive statements, I am certain that he will be punished. I have known  Mr. Robb  for 25 years, and I have a deep knowledge of the extraordinarily fine work that he has done for his fellow-members of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, and I refuse to listen to any statement on the subject until the result of the inquiry is known. "Why, then, should he be condemned as he has been by some honorable senators opposite merely for the sake of political kudos? I was not at the conference at which the statements alleged to have been made were uttered. I, like every other honorable senator, have had to depend on what I have read in the newspapers. It is a breach of privilege for honorable senators to try to prejudice  Mr. Robb's  case. Whatever be the result of the inquiry, nothing can alter the fact that he has given enduringservice to his fellow returned soldiers in the highest position which the New South Wales Branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia can offer. As a man,  Mr. Robb  has earned and gained the respect of the community. Until the case is determined, he should be given a semblance of British justice and not be treated as guilty before the decision of the tribunal is known. 
in  reply  - Matters raised by honorable senators will be brought to the notice of the appropriate Ministers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Before the Senate adjourns for the Christmas vacation, will the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy make a statement similar to that made in the House of Representatives, relating to the arrangements made for dealing with mine laying and raiders ? 
I shall he glad to do so. I have asked Ministers who make ministerial statements in the House of Representatives to provide Ministers in the Senate with copies of such statements so that the announcements may be made simultaneously in both chambers. 

 Later: 

 by leave  - In referring to  Senator Keane's  statement in the Senate on Wednesday night, the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes)  stated that the Naval Board is fully alive to the danger to shipping from raiders and mine-laying vessels in Australian waters. This, however, is an Empire problem, because, should a ship be sunk in Australian waters  or elsewhere, the loss to the common cause is the same, and the Naval Forces of the Empire must be so disposed that the strongest force shall be in a position to meet the greatest threat. The first duty of the Australian naval forces is to safeguard Australian cities, coastline and trade, and to escort Australian troops overseas. Over 90 per cent, of the seagoing strength of the Royal Australian Navy is so employed.  Senator Keane's  statement that, during the last war, the Empire could rely on the services of the fleets of France, Japan, and Italy only emphasizes the necessity for each part of the Empire to contribute its utmost to the common cause. 
In reply to the honorable senator's statement that a mine-sweeper followed one or more ships out of the Sydney harbour, I may say that that is probable and, in any case, a natural happening. Mine-sweepers are small vessels, which have to return to harbour occasionally for fuel, victuals, and to enable their crews to obtain the necessary rest. The fact that they returned to the scene of their operations about the same time as other ships left harbour was merely a coincidence. The honorable senator may not be aware of the method of carrying out these operations, but he can be informed if he so desires.  His  proposal that a convoy system should be instituted for the protection of ships trading in Australian waters and on the ocean routes between Australia and other countries is, unfortunately, quite impracticable. Not only would it entail a force of cruisers of about a quarter of the strength of the British Navy, but it would also cause delays to shipping, which would more than offset  occasional losses. Nevertheless, the Navy is by no means entirely on the defensive: It has plans for seeking out and destroying enemy raiders. It has never claimed, either before or during the war, that it could afford 100 per cent, security for shipping; but it does claim that the number of ships which have safely completed their voyages compared with the number of vessels lost in or near Australian waters is evidence of the success of the methods adopted and of the efficiency of the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. 
As to  Senator Keane's  remarks on merchant shipbuilding, the Minister for the Navy states that the Naval Board has in hand a programme for the construction of over 50,000 tons of naval vessels which has led to the establishment, or re-establishment, of a number of shipbuilding yards, which, following experience gained in the work, will later be fitted to undertake other ship construction work when the present  programme is completed. The Minister for the Navy states that the honorable senator appears to have based his criticism of naval administration on inadequate and unreliable data, and is confident that  Senator Keane  will appreciate the fact that the Naval Board is unable to make public replies to any such criticism. The Government is not in a position to reply publicly to such statements without divulging secret information which would materially assist the enemy. Obviously, such questions as " What precautions were taken against the laying of mines by raiders ? " cannot be answered without giving to the enemy the information it would be glad to have. 
"With reference to the announcement in this morning's press of the further mechanization of the army - I assume that the home army is referred to - can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army say whether the military authorities have taken into consideration the results of the mountain fighting in Albania, where cavalry proved to be still most useful? Do they see in those successes a possible lesson for Australia, which has a dividing range extending almost for the full length of the eastern coast, and is it intended to place a higher value on the Australian Light Horse regiments than has been the case during recent years? 
I have no doubt that the extraordinarily fine achievements of our Greek allies, will teach many lessons in relation to military tactics. I am sure that those British officers who are associated with the operations in which the Greek armies are engaged will have much information to give to their Government. I assure the honorable  senator that his suggestion will be brought under the notice of the Minister for the Army. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
As it is reported that many small woolgrowers are urgently in need of money to tide them over Christmas, will the Government have another wool appraisement before Christmas in Western Australia? 
The Minister for Commerce states that the arrangement of wool apraisements comes under the control of the Central Wool Committee, to which the matter has been referred. 
asked the Minister  representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Does the Attorney -General or any other Minister exercise any control over firearms belonging to banks? 
If so, are there in existence any regulations protecting employees of the banks against the misuse of such weapons? 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answers :  -  1 and 2. The National Security (Firearms and Explosives) Regulations control the sale and purchase offirearms and require British subjects having firearms in their possession to furnish to the police returns of firearms held by them. The regulations do not extend to the regulation of the use of firearms by employees of banking institutions. 
.- The bill indicates that the Commonwealth will buy water from the State. Can the Minister say for what purpose that water will be used? 
SenatorMcBride.  -  It will be used by the Commonwealth railways in connexion with both the Trans-Australian line and the railway to Alice Springs. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill represents a portion of the legislation necessary to give effect to the proposals outlined in the budget speech with respect to sales tax. Briefly stated, those proposals contemplate - 
The withdrawal from the exemption field of goods of an estimated annual value of £47,000,000, and the imposition thereon, with one exception which I shall explain later, of tax at the rate of 5 per cent. 
The separation from the present taxable field of a carefully selected group of goods (considered in the existing circumstances to be less essential than the general run of goods) of an estimated annual value of £21,000,000, and the imposition thereon of a tax at 15 per cent., and 
The. raising of the general rate on the goods remaining in the general field from81/3 per cent. to 10 per cent. 
From these proposals the Government expects to obtain an additional £3,400,000 in the financial year 1940-41. 
The present schedule to the Sales Tax Exemptions Act will, if this measure becomes law, be replaced by three schedules, the first of which will contain particulars of goods which will still be exempt; the second will contain particulars of goods which it is proposed should bear the tax at a rate of 5 per cent.; the third will contain particulars of goods which it is proposed shall bear tax at the rate of 15 per cent.; and the remainder of the goods sold or consumed in Australia will bear a tax at 10 per cent. 
There has been a fairly widespread demand for a change of the incidence of sales tax, which would abolish the large number of exemptions, and reduce the burden of classification. The proposals for changes in the basis of levying the sales tax have 'been many and varied, ranging from a multiple turnover tax to a tax imposed on every retail sale made. After a careful examination of the various suggestions, the Government is convinced that the present form of sales tax is to be preferred to any other form of tax tried in other countries. Perhaps the most persistent demand has been for the maintenance of the present form of tax, coupled with the abolition of all exemptions so that the tax may be spread over all goods consumed in Australia, and a comparatively low rate of tax maintained. The Government does not intend to follow that course. Exemptions from sales tax are based upon certain well defined criteria which may be briefly stated as follows: - 
The goods are basic foodstuffs. 
They are primary products. 
They are primary producers' machinery, or materials of production. 
They are goods used in industries which in peace times it is necessary and desirable to foster. 
They are goods used in activities relatingtoreligious,philan- thropic, benevolent, educational or medical and surgical activities. 
The Government considers that the total withdrawal of exemptions in the first, second and third categories, would so disturb the nation's economy as to cause harm, and greatly outweigh the advantages to be derived from classification and the relatively lower rate. However, the Government believes that from groups 4 and 5 a limited selection can be made and upon which a relatively low rate of tax can be collected. A schedule has accordingly been compiled, including goods of a sale value of approximately £47,000,000 which itis proposed should be brought back to the taxable field. It is proposed that with one exception all the goods comprising the field will bear tax at the relatively low rate of5 per cent. 
The exception is boots and shoes of a wholesale value in excess of 15s. per pair. These have been allowed to fall into the class of goods upon which the general rate of 10 per cent. is payable. The exception is considered to be justified because of the retention of the  exemption  for boots and shoes of all kinds, the wholesale value of which does not exceed 15s. per pair. Of the total estimated sale value of all boots and shoes of £8,000,000, more than one half will still be exempt. The exemption is expected to cover all boots for ordinary purposes, children's boots and shoes, and the less expensive type of men's and ladies' shoes. The more expensive boots and shoes and slippers will be taxed at the general rate of 10 per cent. The additions will bring the value of the taxable field to approximately £251,000,000. Of the goods which it is estimated will be consumed in Australia, and valued at £565,000,000, goods to the value of £314,000,000 will still be exempt. The composition of the £314,000,000 is as follows :  - 

<graphic href="165332194012123_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

Even a cursory survey of the nature of the goods in this list will convince reasonable persons that the scope of the tax cannot be widened to any appreciable extent beyond what is already proposed. There may, of course, be room for differences of opinion concerning some of the items which the Government has included in the second schedule and taxed at o per cent. They are all goods for which undeniable claims to exemption can he made in times of peace, but standards formulated in peace time have to be adjusted to war-time necessities, and the Government considers that, having preserved the principle of preference by imposing only half rates, it has not acted harshly in bringing those goods again into the taxable field. 
Consequent upon the re-introduction of sales tax on spectacles, eye glasses, and lorgnettes, it will be necessary to provide a special sale value upon which tax on these goods shall be paid. This is necessary in order that the value of skilled services not associated with the production of the articles concerned may not be made subject to tax. This matter is appropriately provided for in a proposed amendment of regulation 18a, and the sale value proposed is that which operated prior to the exemption of those goods, namely, 33-i per cent, of the total amount charged. 
It would be appropriate at this stage to say that it is proposed to increase the sale value of made-to-measure clothing. This sale value at present is calculated at 50 per cent, of the total charge made to the customer, and in many cases has been found to be less than the total cost of production of the goods. It is proposed by regulation to increase the sale value to 66jj- per cent, of the total charge made for the goods. 
For taxation at the relatively high rate of 15 per cent., the Government has chosen goods which are considered to supply less urgent needs than those contained in the other schedules, or those upon which the general rate will fall. Particulars of these goods will be found in the proposed third schedule. "Whereever possible, goods have been described by the names under which they are traded in commercially. This course has been followed in preference to the much easier method of describing groups of goods by generic terms. In the latter course, a specific classification is placed primarily upon the taxpayer, with penalty taxes for failure to classify the goods correctly, as well as the inability to recover the difference in tax. 
Owing to the degree of secrecy which necessarily has had to be observed in the compilation of this special schedule, and to the adoption of the specific in preference to the generic definition of goods, it may be found that the list is incomplete, notwithstanding that every care has been exercised in its preparation. Should this prove to be the case, the Government will not hesitate at a later date to ask Parliament to amend the schedule to preserve the principles upon which it has been compiled. In furtherance of this plan, the Treasurer has announced, with the sanction of the Prime Minister,' that a committee comprised of members of all parties would be set up to inquire into anomalies, difficulties and the incidence of the sales tax. 
I do not propose at this stage to make any specific references to the individual items comprising the schedule, which should be self-explanatory. If any further information be desired by honorable senators on particular items, it will be given when the bill is in the committee stages. 
It is provided that the new schedules shall become operative on and from the 22nd November, 1940, in respect of all goods, the subject of transactions which attract liability, including the importation of goods. 
Provision is made to prevent sales tax from becoming payable on goods which up to the 21st November, 1940, were exempt from tax but which on and after the 22nd November, 1940, become subject to tax if those goods had passed the normal taxing point before the 22nd November, 1940. In other words, tax will not be payable by a retailer, or a retailerwholesaler, on goods sold by retail, which, prior to the 22nd November, 1940, were exempt, and had been treated as stock for sale by retail, or had been placed in a common stock for sale by retail or wholesale as the occasion arises. Goods sold by retail which have already borne tax at the rate hitherto in force will not be subject to further tax because of any increase now proposed. There are provisions in the machinery measures which will fully protect vendors of goods who are required to pay tax on goods at the new rates. Such vendors will be able to recover from customers who have not paid when the measures become law. 
An appropriate machinery amendment will shortly he introduced which will permit agreements or contracts entered into in relation to goods previously exempt to he varied to cover the additional tax payable, or the additional costs borne on account of these amendments, as the co.se may be. 
Proposals such as these would not be submitted in times of peace. 
['11.29J.  - I congratulate the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  upon having had copies of his second-reading speech on this measure circulated to honorable senators.  His  action is very much appreciated, because it has enabled us to follow his speech much more intelligently. Members of the Opposition will be mindful of the concluding paragraph of the speech, in which the Minister stated that, in their consideration of the individual items, they should not lose sight of the fact that such proposals would not be submitted in times of peace. The Opposition will certainly keep that in mind. Prom the outset the Opposition has agreed not to hamper the Government in its efforts to obtain the finance necessary for it to carry on Australia's war effort, and that compact will be rigidly adhered to. The Opposition's objection to indirect taxation has been well canvassed in the budget debate. Without repeating any portion of my budget speech I may say that the Opposition believes that there is an alternative to ever increasing indirect taxation. In spite of all precautions, traders will take advantage of the increase of the sales tax to make greater profits by charging the increased rates on old stock. I have no doubt that the public will be asked to pay more for their purchases than is justified. If the additional tax amounts to, say,  id.  traders will increase the price by Id. 
They will therefore make enhanced profits out of this tax just as the publicans are making bigger profits as the result of charging more for beer and spirits than is justified by the increased excise. I shall reserve any remarks that I have to make on specific items until the bill is in committee. 
I should like the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  when replying to tell me how it is proposed to police the provisions designed 
I'.o prevent individuals who hold goods bought under the old conditions from adding the increased rate of tax to the prices charged. It would be a tremendous task for the Taxation Department to prevent dishonest retailers from imposing upon customers. 
.- The sales tax which was introduced into this country for the first time to meet the emergency created by the depression is now perpetuated in our taxation system. The rates of sales tax have risen to such a degree that it is probable that the purpose of the tax will be defeated owing to the inability of the public to continue to make purchases on the same scale as previously. The additional excise that has been imposed  on  beer, wines and tobacco has already resulted in a diminution of purchases. The net result of those tremendous increases of indirect taxes will be that purchases will be so reduced that the Government will not reap any additional revenue. The Government has already accepted amendments of the schedules in the House of Representatives. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber will ask that concessions be made to the men on the bottom rung of the social ladder when the bill is in committee. 
 I know that I shall not achieve anything by speaking on this measure, but in the interests of the workers and the economy of Australia, something should be said. I look upon the sales tax as a tax which has caused more trouble than it is worth to the business community. Even in wartime the Government should seek to raise the money which it needs by other means  instead of by increasing the worries and troubles of the business community and causing the expenditure of energy which would be better expended in other directions. The sales tax, like other indirect taxes, reduces the wages of the workers. As I have not read the  debate  in the House of Representatives on this proposed legislation, I should like the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride),  when he replies, to tell me what amendments were made in that chamber. It was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  that an all-party committee is to he appointed to investigate the sales tax. I commend the Government for that action. I take it that the Senate will be represented on the committee. I should like some information from the Minister on that point. We know that the tendency is to ignore the Senate. Comparisons are odious, hut many honorable senators have had just as valuable experience in business and industry as members of the House of Representatives. They are as intimately acquainted with the difficulties associated with the operation of this tax. The labour party has always urged the Government to rely to a greater degree upon the advice of practical men when dealing with industry. It is essential that the viewpoint of the workers be not ignored when we are dealing with industrial matters. In this instance the Government should be guided by the opinions of those who possess intimate knowledge of the difficulties associated with the imposition and collection of the sales tax. The appointment of a committee will enable Parliament to be assisted in that way. For that reason I commend the Government on its decision. I have received many communications from business people, setting out their views in relation to the sales tax, particularly in respect of softgoods. One suggestion made to me was that the tax should he. on a flat rate. I, and many other honorable senators, are not in a position to argue for or against that suggestion, but the inquiries of the committee will enable us to approach this problem in a proper way. The time has arrived when we should apply this method to taxation generally. We should overhaul our present methods with a view to eliminating much, if not all, of the unnecessary work and cost now involved in the imposition and collection of many classes of taxes. We may be able to raise the revenue we require by methods which will not involve one-tenth of the difficulties which now arise. Before the war is finished our methods of taxation will undergo a profound change. I am satisfied that such a development will be for the betterment of the nation. Although we shall resist the dictators with all the strength in our power, we can, nevertheless, learn something of advantage from Hitler and Mussolini so far as taxation is concerned. They have organized their countries on a national basis, and not from the point of view of transferring this, or that, tax to a particular section of the community in order to lighten the burden on the rich. They have organized their economies on a national basis, employing the most effective methods of conserving the energies of their people in order to achieve the aims they have in mind. 
I do not want to be misunderstood. I should rather a thousand times put up with all the disabilities and anomalies which arise under our democratic system in general, and in respect of taxation in particular, than be under the heel of a Mussolini or a Hitler. 
:However, our determination to overthrow the totalitarian regimes does not mean that we cannot learn a lesson or two from them in regard to methods of taxation. In our efforts, to evolve methods of taxation which will cause less disturbance to our economy, and reduce the costs of imposition and collection of taxes we can learn a lesson from the totalitarian countries by approaching this problem from the point of view of .what is best, not for individual or sectional interests, hut for the nation as a whole.' We should endeavour, for instance, to discover to what degree our present methods of taxation reduce the capacity of industry to provide employment for our people at decent standards. We should ascertain which taxes are non-essential. Surely the Government will not deny that that is a correct approach to the problem of taxation. I regret that this measure has been placed before honorable senators in circumstances in which we cannot examine it as fully as we should. Such methods will not strengthen the cause of democratic government so far as this Parliament is concerned. If the great mass of the people realized the  Condiitions  under which we were asked to pass this measure they would naturally ask, "Is this democracy?". Parliament should be given the fullest opportunity to consider measures of so important and complex a character as this bill. 
I admit that, under the totalitarian system a few men decide that certain things must be done, and they are done. However, we are now endeavouring to show to the world that democracy is workable even in a time of war. This struggle is a fight between two principles. We must employ democratic methods to the best advantage in order to organize the nation for war just as effectively as the totalitarian countries. We are anxious to prove that democracy will work just as effectively in war as in peace. We must prove to those who try to impose totalitarian methods upon us that our methods are just as effective as the methods of the dictator. The Government should he equally courageous in dealing with taxation. It should cut the painter, and abandon the old stupid methods. Sales tax is one of the worst forms of taxation. I realize that it was originally imposed in a time of economic crisis by a Labour government. At the same time, the Labour party to-day must not he tied inevitably, simply for that reason, .to systems of which they do not approve in the light of our experience. 
The fairest tax is a tax on income. 
The fact is that we require additional revenue, and we must obtain it. Through the sales tax we propose to raise a certain amount of revenue by indirectly taxing the community. If the money can be obtained by indirect taxation, it can also be obtained by direct taxation. We should obtain our requirements by the fairest means possible. It is there to be got. 
I did not say anything of the kind. When I am charged for an article, say, £1 more than the price which I would pay for it if no sales tax were levied, it means that that £1 is taken from me by the shopkeeper and given to the Government. 
-There is no escape from my first argument. It is clear that the Government, and especially the present Government, is always anxious to lift the hurden of direct taxation from the shoulders of its supporters, with the view to spreading it over the community as a whole Therefore, I contend that the taxation of income is the fairest form of taxation. 
My party believes that this country has not yet reached the stage at which taxes could be abolished, as advocated by the supporters of a certain monetary system. My party claims that taxes 'should be imposed wisely, in order to maintain the purchasing power of the community, and prevent certain sections from receiving from the community more than they need. 
During the last war, the financial policy of Great Britain resulted in the creation of millionaires. Undoubtedly, some people were made bankrupt, but wealth flowed into the pockets of the socalled newly rich. An effort is being made in the Old Country to prevent the rich from becoming richer, but history will repeat itself both in Britain and in Australia. As the war proceeds, money will become plentiful, and, as a result of the economic system, certain members of  the community will increase their bank balances to a greater extent than during peace time. In the view of supporters of the Labour movement, it is essential to impose taxes in such a way as to prevent the accumulation of huge profits. A measure will shortly be placed before this chamber to curtail war-time profits. A Labour government would take unearned increment and use it in the interests of the nation. Bernard Shaw, in his book,  The Intelligent Guide to Socialism,  points out that the estates of certain persons in -Great Britain became the property of the Government during the last war, as a result of the effect of death duties. The power of taxation is one of the most effective weapons that an intelligent government can use for the purpose of giving equitable treatment to the masses, and preventing a small section of the people from increasing their wealth because of war activities. I hope that the whole subject of taxation will soon be investigated thoroughly by the Government, with a view to placing the system on a sound basis, so that the cost of tax collection will be reduced and justice will be done to the whole of the people. 
I support the second reading of this bill.  Senator Brown  would like the Senate to believe that the measure involves some new principles of taxation. All members of the Senate dislike taxes of this kind, but we recall that the sales tax was introduced by a Labour government years ago, at a time of financial crisis. As the financial position improved, the burdell of the tax  wa3  reduced by a considerable increase of the number of exempt goods. The Government is faced with the necessity for financing the war effort, and surely it will not be suggested that the financial crisis during which the sales tax was first imposed was more severe than that being experienced at the present time! 
According to  Senator Brown,  the fairest tax is the income tax. No doubt, all honorable senators will agree that the income tax is the most equitable in its incidence, but would the honorable senator support legislation to reduce the income tax exemption figure to the amount that would result in raising the same sum as will be obtained by this bill? Most of the goods on which the workers pay sales tax are manufactured in Australia, and no duty would be too high for the honorable senator, if it were required to prevent the importation of these goods from overseas. So it seems to me that the revenue to be raised might as well be obtained through the sales tax as through customs duties. The honorable senator desired to show that the burden of the sales tax is borne mainly by the workers, but the extra burden will be imposed in respect of all goods subject to sales tax. The honorable senator claims that the revenue desired should be raised by means of the income tax, but there must necessarily be a limit to that tax. If the captains of industry were called upon to pay such heavy income tax that their profits disappeared, they would have no incentive to carry on business. Successive governments have explored many avenues for raising additional revenue, but there is a limit to the burden that industry can bear. No tax is popular ; persons with big incomes object to high rates of income tax; honorable senators opposite object to the exemption being lowered to 'bring into the field of income taxation persons in the low income group; they are also opposed to the sales tax. Those who object to the existing means of raising revenue are not always able to indicate other ways of finding it.  Senator Brown  certainly kept clear of dangerous ground by avoiding all reference to an extension of bank credit. No one likes increasing the sales tax, but if this means of raising revenue must be retained, every effort should be made to avoid irritating those who pay it. The Government should co-operate wholeheartedly with business people; taxation officials should administer the law sympathetically; and prompt steps should be taken to remove anomalies as they are revealed. 
Honorable senators opposite who claim that huge profits are made in industry, and have referred to the " millionaires " created by the last war, should remember that immediately the present war broke out the Government took steps to control prices. They know that attempts at profiteering are being closely watched, and that interest rates are lower to-day  than at the outbreak of war.  Senator Brown,  when speaking of the injustices associated with our system of taxation, said that only one form of taxation commended itself to him- 
The honorable senator certainly emphasized one form of taxation and steered clear of others. He urged that the income tax exemption should 'be raised. Most people are like the Scot who said that, although he didn't mind paying a fair amount to the taxation authorities, he did not believe in being robbed. In view of the need to obtain revenue for the prosecution of the war, I shall support the second reading of the bill. 
I regret that the Government has not found means of obtaining additional revenue without increasing the obnoxious sales tax, which, for many years, has placed a heavy burden on the people. Sales tax causes prices to rise, yet the Government professes to be strongly opposed to inflation. Immediately prices are inflated, the standard of living is lowered. I do not believe that all of the supporters of the Government desire to lower that standard. 
Yet that is the effect of the sales tax. 
The sales tax places a heavier hurden on people with low incomes more, than on those with incomes in the higher range, because the living standard of the latter group is not so seriously affected by it.  Senator Herbert  Hays said that there would not be any profits on the sales tax, hut I submit that profits will be made on the increased capital which will have to be invested in businesses because of the existence of this tax. A business man bases his estimated profits on his outlay; he must take into consideration what he will have to pay as sales tax. Therefore, it cannot be denied that profits will be made on the additional capital which the imposition of this tax will cause to be invested in businesses. 
A business man must allow for the wages of his staff, but why should the burden on the people be increased hy allowing him to make a profit on the sales tax ? 
I am dealing with sales tax, not wages. The Minister must not think that he can catch me on the subject of wages. 
That does not mean that it must continue indefinitely and be increased from time to time. In my opinion, the imposition of sales tax by a Labour government was a mistake; but two wrongs do not make a right. A fairer system of obtaining revenue should be  in  operation. Let us consider the effect of sales tax on a man with a wife and six' children who is in receipt of £3 a week; there are plenty of them. 
Yes, and in South Australia also. A man with a wife and six children has to buy commodities for eight persons, whereas a single man in receipt of the same salary pays the tax practically only on his clothing. 
Direct taxation places the burden upon those who are best able to pay it, hut indirect taxation, such as the sales tax, is more insidious in its operation. A single man can more easily pay £1 a week out of £3 a week than a married man with six children can afford to pay 10s. a week out of the same salary. 
The main purpose of customs duties is to protect local industries. That is not the purpose of the sales tax. 
I  hope  that I have made it clear that I would not raise it by means of a sales tax. If the amount must be found, it should be raised by means of a tax on incomes. The money must be there, otherwise the Government could not get it. 
The honorable senator says that the money is not there, so perhaps he will indicate later where the money to be raised under this legislation is to be found. A man's standard of living is affected not so much by the amount of money that is taken away from him, but by the amount which he has left. An analysis of incomes would reveal that there are still many persons who can well afford to pay a higher rate of income tax, and additional revenue should be  obtained  from those persons rather than from married men with families, the low wage earners, and the invalid and old-age pensioners by means of this unfair indirect tax. I mention these matters because I am not prepared to let this measure pass as though it had my wholehearted blessing. I have never been in favour of the sales tax. When I referred to this matter some days ago, the Minister informed me that sales tax was not imposed on boots and shoes. Of course, this bill was not then before the Senate, and the Minister was able to get away with what he said and had it recorded in  IIansard.  However, in his second-reading speech to-day, he has shown clearly that there is_ a sales tax of 10 per cent, on boots and shoes, the wholesale price of which exceeds 15s. This is a direct contradiction of the previous statement. What class of boots or shoes can be purchased at 16s.? 
Even if that be so, the retail price would not be much higher because the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner does not permit more than a specified profit to  be  made. If the retail price is ls. or 2s. more than the wholesale price, the total price would be 16s. or 17s. I should like to know the quality of footwear that could be purchased at that price? 
What a Government ! Honorable senators opposite have tried to justify the imposition of the sales tax by claiming that revenue cannot be obtained from any other source, hut what of these business people who on  Senator Spicer's  admission, make a profit of 10s. on a pair of shoes, the wholesale price of which is 15s. ? That is an enormous profit. The honorable senator has in effect made a suggestion which should be welcomed by the Government. Again I urge that the workers on low wages, and the invalid and old-age pensioners be not penalized by raising the sales tax, but rather should the Government further explore all avenues of direct taxation. 
The effect of the increases of sales tax will be to reduce the purchasing power of the workers, particularly the lower paid workers, by approximately £5,000,000, according to the estimate given by the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  The important point that I wish to make is that as the purchasing power of the workers is lowered by means of the sales tax, so the possibility of strikes and industrial disputes will increase. Therefore, should this legislation be proceeded with, the Government will have been a contributing factor to whatever industrial- unrest may result. It will be useless blaming the workers for striking, if by means of this legislation the Government makes it impossible for them to carry on as they are expected to do. When the full effect of this tax is felt, protest meetings will be held on all the jobs to decide what action should be taken to counteract the ever-increasing cost of living. The workers will say "Here we are working day after day, as hard as we can; we are contributing 100 per cent, to the war effort, but we are not getting enough to live on ". They will realize that fellow employees in more favored spheres of production are getting more than they require of the necessaries of life such as food, clothing, and housing. No doubt the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings), Senator Keane  and I, will be asked to explain the reason. We shall have to say to the workers, "We admit that you are right in making a protest. You are perfectly justified in raising an objection. The Government has no valid reason for reducing your standard of living. Thousands of people who are doing the same work, or perhaps not such valuable work, as you are, are receiving in excess of their needs ". As  Senator Brown  said., the money which is to be provided by means of this increase of the sales tax, could be obtained more equitably by raising the income tax. That would not deprive people of employment. Even if all incomes were taxed down to £500 a year, the result would be better, because the money would be collected by the Government, and it would be able to provide additional employment. We should think of the position in the terms of commodities. If this legislation be passed, the workers will have to purchase fewer commodities, or commodities of an inferior quality. The effect of the increase of the sales tax will be to withhold necessary commodities from the workers, whereas those in receipt of large incomes will contribute as little as possible, and business people will be enabled to make a profit out of war activities. 
Recently, I asked a question about Australia's interest bill in connexion with the war, and the answer was that the interest commitment for the financial year 1940-41 was estimated at £2,595,000. Most of that sum will go to persons who do not need it, or at least are in a much better position to do without it than are the poorer classes who will be heavily hit by the sales tax. If the purchasing power of the workers - particularly those upon whom the Government is relying to produce munitions and essential war equipment - is decreased, the injustice will not be tolerated without some protest, and further industrial unrest will be unavoidable. Men are prepared to work for the minimum living wage; they are prepared to do their best in the interests of their country and to forgo unnecessary luxuries, provided that the sacrifice be borne equally by all sections of the community. When it is pointed out to workers at union stopwork meetings how other people are living, the sense of injustice and resentment will result in industrial disputes and strikes, because all such upheavals have their origin in adverse working and living conditions. Why should this infamous tax be imposed when the services of many people who are now out of work, or are employed in nonessential industries, could be utilized in increasing the production of essential commodities? We are engaged in a war, and we should produce as many of the commodities necessary to carry on our war effort as we can. Although the injustice of the matter may he ignored in this chamber, and honorable senators opposite may laugh and sneer at what we say, the result will be as I have said, and the jeers, laughs and sneers of Government supporters will not in any way prevent industrial disputes taking place unless this problem is tackled as it should be tackled. The unemployed could be put to work to-morrow producing additional commodities. This is not a personal matter, but one which affects the livelihood of thousands of men, women and children. I do not propose to allow this Government to create the impression outside Parliament that it is acting in the interests of the country. 
I am not inciting people to strike. I am merely pointing out how strikes originate. I am quite confident that I shall he able to justify my attitude before an audience of the working nien who will be directly affected by this legislation, whereas some honorable senators opposite would have the greatest difficulty in justifying their attitude on this bill. 

 Silting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15 p.m. 

The object of this tax is not only to obtain additional money for the purposes of war, but also to withhold commodities from those who are greatly in need of them. Why should those workers be forced to do with fewer loaves of bread, less meat, fewer oranges and apples and other commodities, and fewer of the amenities of life, when there is an abundance of consumers' goods? Even if there were a scarcity, there would be no justification, because those who are unemployed could be employed in producing them, and the services of others who are employed in nonessential industries could be diverted to more useful activities. If we view the  position, not in terms of money, but in terms of commodities which money can buy, there is no basis on which we can justify the imposition of this tax. Why, then is the tax imposed? The only conclusion that I can come to - 1 should be glad if I could be shown to be wrong - is that the tax is designed to ma.ke it possible for those who invest their capital to continue  to profit  from war-time industries. The Government is running those industries in name, but it depends on the money which it borrows from investors, and the degree to which it becomes indebted determines its power to provide for extending its activities and for the workers. 
We have good reasons for opposing this tax.  Senator Herbert  Hays mentioned the limitation of taxation. There is a limit to this form of taxation. There is a limit to the degree to which one can impose on men - a limit to the degree to which the Government can capitalize their patriotism or goodwill. I warn the Government not to go to that limit, but to try to understand the workers' point of view. If that be done it must be admitted by any intelligent person that there is no reason for this tax. I make that protest because after my long experience in the industrial movement I am certain that there will be an increase of industrial disputes and strikes, if this tax, which, I am informed, will reduce wages by at least 5s. a week, be imposed. If trouble occurs the Government, as the authority which has provoked men to take action to protect themselves against unwarranted taxation, must accept the principal share of the blame. It is necessary that I should stress that point, because, by implication and direct statement, the newspapers always attribute to the workers the blame for stopwork meetings or strikes. Members of the Opposition are bound to state the case in rebuttal for the workers whenever it is considered necessary. When they do so, all impartial and intelligent people will decide that the tax is unwarranted. 
The Minister's second-reading speech contained this paragraph - 
Consequent  upon the re-introduction of sales tax on spectacles, eye-glasses and lorgnettes, it will tie necessary to provide a special sale  value  upon which tax on these goods should be paid. This is necessary in order that the value of skilled services not associated with the production of the articles concerned may not be made subject to tax. This matter is appropriately provided for in a proposed amendment of regulation 18a, and the sale value proposed is that which operated prior to the exemption of those goods, namely, 33J per cent, of the total amount charged. 
Spectacle frames and lenses, which are not made in Australia, were among the first items placed in the list of restricted imports. On a former occasion sales tax was applied to glasses, but it was lifted when protests were made by the opticians' society, thus showing that it was unnecessary and unjust. Tasmania was the first country in the British Empire to legislate to protect the people against eye-glass frauds. That legislation was passed when the late  Mr. J.  A. Lyons was Labour Premier of Tasmania. I am an optometrist with 25 years' experience, and my younger son is optometrist to the Royal Hobart Hospital. The advisability of exempting spectacles from sales tax must be clear. Spectacles are not worn for fashion or fun. They are necessary to nine out of ten people after they reach 45 years of age. The Tasmanian Labour Government has established at the Royal Hobart Hospital an optical clinic where patients are examined pathologically by an oculist. If no disease be present, 'but vision is abnormal, the patient is sent to the optometrist and spectacles are provided. The imposition of sales tax on glasses will result in many people going to chain stores for glasses when they find that their sight is failing. The cheap glasses sold in such places are not fitted with -optical lenses, but are made of window glass which has been curved to give it refraction. It has been calculated that there are 1,000.000 combinations of lenses. Serious trouble may eventuate if people whose eyes require expert attention are forced by the tax policy of this Government to purchase their glasses from unqualified salesmen. That is why the Tasmanian Government provides the pathological examination. This tax will react  mo3t  harshly on the poor. The trouble suffered by many people who have come to me for eye-tests has been caused through the wearing of cheap glasses. In many cases disease had supervened, and I was unable to do anything for them. Spectacles are essential to the health of many children. So prevalent is eye trouble among the children of Hobart that a special light school has been attached to principal public schools in that city. Nothing impedes a child's work in school so much as defective eyesight. When travelling recently on the boat to Tasmania 1 met a gentleman and his daughter, and discovered that the latter, who looked the picture of health, had qualified as a teacher although during her school days she was unable to see figures on the blackboard from her desk. To-day she cannot recognize her own father across the street. The injustice of taxing articles of this kind is accentuated when we know that, according to the best authorities which I have quoted repeatedly in this chamber, the Government could raise all of the revenue it requires without increasing taxes, or incurring any material increase of the national debt. Sales tax is to be levied on numerous articles essential to the average person. Watches are essential articles,  and  they are to be taxed at the rate of 15 per cent. I am not so much concerned about the tax on lorgnettes, but I again protest against the taxing of spectacles which, owing to defective eyesight, so many of our people including principally the young and the aged, cannot do without 
2.3'5.  -  I  was  unable to follow the second-reading speech of the Minister in charge of the bill. He said - 
The present schedule of the Sales Ta. Exemption Act will, if this bill becomes law, be replaced by three schedules. The first will contain particulars of goods which will still bc exempt. The second will contain particulars of goods which  it  is proposed should bear a tax of 5 per cent.; and the third will contain particulars of goods which it is proposed should bear a tax at the rate of 15 per cent. 
The Minister then said that the remainder of the goods sold, or consumed, in Australia would bear tax at the 10 per cent, rate. Surely we cannot be expected to deal intelligently with this measure unless we be given some indication of the classes of goods to be contained in the respective schedules. 
All articles required for shaving will be subject to tax at the rate of 15 per cent. 
These include shaving cream, razors, and razor blades. Cosmetics are to be taxed at a similar rate. Girls on low incomes, including many who are making their contribution to our war effort by their employment in war industries, will be penalized by this tax. In addition it will be an unjust burden on girls who, by reason of their occupation, are obliged to use cosmetics to a greater degree than they would normally. This is definitely a class tax. It will involve no sacrifice on the part of girls of well-to-do families. J. repeat that some indication should be given to honorable senators of the classes of goods which will remain exempt from sales tax. 
Slippers will be taxed at the rate of 10 per cent. I have just received the following letter from the People's Slipper Manufacturing Company Proprietary Limited, Sydney: - 
We feel that the anomalies in the application of this tax are far-reaching, particularly in regard to all classes of slippers which have the imposition tax of 10 per cent, added to the cost price. 
May we take the liberty of explaining to you the effect that this tax on slipper footwear must have on the masses of this country? 
As slippers are the cheapest form of footwear manufactured, the 10 per cent, impost will naturally affect the basic wage earners' spending power. To verify this statement we wish to inform you that in the depression period of 1931-32 onwards our factory had a production of approximately 700 to 1,000 pairs per day, but within twelve months from the onset of the depression our production increased up to 5,000 pairs per day, which proves that the majority of our basie wage earners were buying the best value according to their means. 
We may state that to-day slippers are treated not as a luxury but as a necessity to the health and convenience of the public. This may also bo proved by the Government Statistician's figures of 1938-30. which revealed that fi.000.000 pairs of ladies' shoes were sold per annum, while 5,000,000 pairs of slippers were sold during the same period, which in itself is explanatory as to whether slippers are a necessity or a luxury. 
We, therefore, feel that after viewing the contents of this letter you may feel disposed to use your influence to have these anomalies rectified so as to conform with the requirements of the masses. 
Viewing the cost price of slippers, which is from ls. (Id. to 7s. per pair, showing an average cost of 2s. 4d. per pair, we would respectfully suggest that an exemption on all slippers under 5s. per pair come into effect. 
It is wrong to impose sales tax on slippers. Many people suffering from foot troubles require cheap slippers for comfort. Honorable senators opposite may contend that a tax pf 10 per cent, on slippers, which can be purchased at a chain-store at 2s. 6d. a pair, will not amount to much; but it is the last straw that breaks the camel's back. The fact that books have been placed on the list of exempt goods will not benefit families on the basic wage, who cannot afford to buy books. It is unfair to impose sales tax on the cosmetics used by working girls, and on the safety-razor blades required by invalid and old-age pensioners. Under the laws of New South Wales, if a man is unemployed and has two daughters working, even if they earn only about fi a week, neither the father nor the mother is entitled to charitable relief. Yet girls who contribute to the support of their parents will have increased charges levied upon them in the form of sales tax on their cosmetics. I hope that the Government will appoint a committee to investigate the anomalies that will arise under this legislation, and that the goods to which I have referred will be placed on the exempt list. 
.- One of the proposals of the Government is to increase the sales tax on certain goods to 15 per cent., in respect of which the Government expects to obtain, under this measure, an additional £3,400,000 during this financial year. Being interested in boots, I am of the opinion that they are to be taxed too heavily. The Minister  (Senator McBride),  referring in his second-reading speech to the goods to be restored to the taxable field, said that the whole of them, with one exception, would bear tax at the relatively low rate of 5 per cent. He continued - 
The exception is boots and shoes of a wholesale value in excess of los. a pair. These have been allowed to fall into the class of goods upon which the general rate of 10 per cent, is payable. The exception is considered to bs justified because of the retention of exemption for boots and shoes of all kinds, the  wholesale  value of which does not exceed 15s a pair. Out of the total estimated sale value of all boots and shoes of £8,000,000 more than half will still be exempt. The exemption is expected to cover all boots for ordinary purposes, all children's boots and shoes, and the less expensive and elaborate type of men's and ladies' shoes. 
What is meant by children's boots? I know children who wear boots that cost more than 15s. a pair whose parents will have to pay this tax. 
It is to be regretted that sales tax is to be charged on the sweets which children buy at practically every small shop throughout Australia. I hope that, the Government will give consideration to the claims of the children who will be the parents of future generations. I recently bought a tin of tobacco for which I was charged 2s. 4d., but another person secured the same line of tobacco elsewhere and was charged 2s. 5d. for it. In each case the stock was new. Such anomalies should be investigated.  Senator Amour  has stolen some of my thunder. Every man, regardless of his station in life or of his age, likes to see young women smartly dressed and with an attractive appearance. Visitors from overseas have commented on the smart appearance of Australian girls. I suggest that we should not prejudice their chances of matrimony by unnecessarily taxing their cosmetics. Men's requisites of all kinds are to be taxed more heavily than in the past, and, as razor blades have been brought into the taxable field, I am afraid that we may soon see men returning to beards. 
 in reply  - It appears that, in the main, honorable senators opposite are opposed to the sales tax in principle, but every government in the British Empire has resorted to this impost. Even in New Zealand, where a Labour Government is in power, a sales tax is imposed. If the Opposition were in office in this Parliament, no doubt the sales tax would continue in operation. This tax was introduced originally by a Labour administration, and the parties now in power were instrumental in reducing the taxable field. 
I can assure  Senator Aylett  that the tax is paid mainly by wholesale firms who are registered for the purpose. The department has a large and efficient investigation branch, and the Treasury will make it its business to see that, as far as possible, sales tax is not added to goods on which it has already been paid. 
I am not in agreement with some of the contentions of  Senator Brown.  All honorable senators consider that taxation should be simplified as much as possible; but it is extremely difficult to simplify a complex procedure. The honorable senator said that a good deal of objection is taken to the manner in which goods are classified. During the regime of the Lyons Government, the cry was not raised that the exemptions secured by the party to which I belong would cause difficulties because of the inclusion of additional items on the exempt list. 
At the moment, I am speaking of the simplification of the work of administration. All of us would like to see the list of exemptions extended, but in time of war revenue must be obtained, and accordingly the Government is of the opinion that certain goods should remain subject to this tax. I was pointing out that when exemptions were being sought the argument about simplification was not raised, although the exemption of certain items from the tax would cause just as much administrative difficulty as would the addition of other items. 
At the moment, I am speaking only of administrative difficulties.  Senator Amour  protested against cosmetics being includedin the schedule. Whatever good case may be made out against the taxing of some articles in the schedule, I suggest that the same case cannot be made out in favour of cosmetics. 
In Great Britain cosmetics are subject to a tax of 331/3 per cent. As I confidently expect the Senate to pass the bill, I shall not delay its passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Exemptions). 
 Senator Keane  in his second-reading speech, gave expression to an idea which, I think, is worth investigation. He said that as the general public did not know what goods were taxable, and sometimes paid sales tax on exempted goods, greater publicity should be given to the exemptions. I agree that it would be helpful if the exemptions were more generally known, as the purchasing public could then avoid payment of the tax. I admit that this is a complicated piece of legislation, . but I shall pass on the suggestion for the consideration of the committee that is to be appointed. 
I shall refer the honorable senator's suggestion to the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  but Ipoint out that it is almost impossible to pulblish a list of exemptions. The ibook which I hold in my hand, and which honorable senators see is a fairly big volume, contains the exemptions. They are so numerous that, even if they were published, half of the people would still not know what goods are exempt. It would be easier to publish lists of goods which are subject to the tax. 
I am afraid that, whatever were done in that direction, the general public would not be much better informed. The people will know to what degree sales tax is imposed on such articles as boots, but more than that I scarcely hope for. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Wireless valves incorporated in sets). 
I should like to know the meaning of this clause, as without 'reference to the principal act its meaning is not clear. 
There is nothing to indicate what that clause means, but I accept the Minister's explanation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Amendment of schedule). 

 - (Senator James Mclachlan). - I direct the attention of honorable senators to this clause, because it includes practically the whole of the balance of the bill. 
Yes. 
When I visited a chemists' shop recently the chemist said "I cannot understand this sales tax. A woman who buys a bottle of cough mixture for her child has to pay sales tax on the medicine, but another woman who buys a bottle of mixture for her dog is not required to pay the tax ". He thought that that anomaly ought to be corrected. I ask the Minister  (Senator McBride)  to give consideration to this matter. Some days ago, a barber asked me whether tools of trade were exempt from sales tax. I said that I did not know, but that I thought that some tools of trade were exempt. I promised to inquire and let him know the result. Having made the promised inquiry, I advised him that his tools of trade, such as razors, scissors, clippers, &amp;c, were subject to a tax of 10 per cent, and that articles used in dressing women's hair, such as dryers, blowers, and marcelle wave equipment were subject to a tax of 15 per cent. I should like to know the position in regard to tools of trade generally. Are they subject to sales tax? 
It is not right that the pick, shovel or axe used by the basic wage worker should be subjected to this tax. I had intended .to refer to the sales tax on books, but I understand that, in the House of Representatives, the Minister gave an undertaking that books will not he taxed in future. 
I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that an anomaly exists in that medicines for animals are exempt from sales tax, whereas medicines required for human beings are taxable. The anomaly arose from the general exemption of articles used by primary producers. Preparations for horses, cattle, sheep, and other animals were, and still are, exempt, whereas other medicines are taxed as drugs. This is a matter which the Treasurer has undertaken to refer to the committee that is to be appointed. 
The honorable senator is correct in saying that the books which have been exempt from sales tax will continue to be exempt. 
I doubt it, but it is a matter which can be referred to the committee which is being set up to examine the schedule. 
Some books and periodicals have always been subject to the tax. All books and periodicals previously exempt are still exempt under this schedule. 
I should like some information concerning the inclusion of chocolates and confectionery in the 15 per cent, class. This matter should be considered in order to ascertain whether these items should not be included in the 30 per cent, class. It can be argued that they are not necessities, but the manufacture of chocolates and confectionery is a big industry in Australia, and first-grade chocolate produced in this country is as good as that produced in any other part of the world. Although there is analogy between chocolate and ice cream, the latter commodity has been placed in the 10 per cent, class. It is true that ice cream contains primary products such as milk, cream and eggs, hut larger quantities of primary products, particularly milk, are also used in. the manufacture of chocolate. We must also bear in mind that the confectionery industry employs about 8,000 persons, and that its subsidiary industries employ almost 50,000 persons. 
Exactly. That is another primary product which is used extensively in the making of chocolate and confectionery. I hope that the Minister will give me an assurance that this matter will be referred to the committee which is to be appointed. I should not be so insistent on these matters if the committee were to include at least one member of this chamber. 
No. I understand that the committee has been appointed to search for anomalies. Doubtless anomalies referred to it will he considered. 
I assure the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that the committee will examine any matters specifically referred to it. The honorable senator's suggestion that there should be at least one member of this legislature on the committee will be conveyed to the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  We should be deluding ourselves if we believed that such commodities as confectionery and chocolate should not be treated as luxuries. I do not think that  Senator Collings  will suggest that such commodities are necessities. The framers of this legislation made a very careful survey of the field, and included only non-essentials in the list on which a tax of 15 per cent, is to be imposed. It is possible that there may be some exception, but I do not think that the honorable senator has made out a good case for the exclusion of chocolates. If he believes that an anomaly exists, he can recommend to the committee that ice cream be included in the 15 per cent, category. Possibly that would not meet with his approval, but that is what is most likely to happen. That is a matter that will be investigated by the committee and the honorable senator's representations will no doubt be given consideration. 
I do not admit that chocolates and confectionery are not necessities. It depends entirely on what one believes to be necessities in an ordinary working-class home. It is unfortunate if we have reached a stage in which Pecksniffian methods have to be adopted in the raising of revenue. In Great Britain all profit over and above pre-war levels is being taxed 100 per cent. Why cannot that be done in Australia? Let us examine the effect of the tax on ice cream and confectionery on an ordinary working-class family. Children are sent to school nicely dressed and are given a penny to spend. Confectionery may not be the best food for children, but still, they derive great enjoyment from purchasing an ice cream, ice blocks, or a couple of chocolates. The Government considers that those things are not necessaries, and so the children may be unable to buy them. Obviously the Government has lost sight of the fact that a large section of the community is able to spend pounds on luxuries imported from other countries. The sales tax will not affect their standard of comfort; they will still get what they want regardless of the price. The Minister cannot convince me that this nation has at last reached the stage at which it is necessary to deprive working-class families of those little niceties of life. Surely the Minister does not suggest that the remedy for the anomaly is to place ice cream in the 15 per cent, class ? I urge that chocolates and confectionery by taxed at 10 per cent. That would deprive the Government of very little revenue, and at the same time would give pleasure to tens of thousands of kiddies whose only joy is to spend a penny or twopence on confectionery. Others in the community are able to afford luxuries such as dancing and cocktail parties, yet the little children are to be deprived of a simple pleasure. 
.- What action was taken in the House of Representatives to exempt from sales tax explosives used in mining operations? I understand that following a discussion on this matter some undertaking was given. 
 No action was taken in regard to explosives, and  the  tax to be imposed on that item remains at 5 per cent. Previously explosives were on the free list. In fact almost all goods now in the 5 per cent. category were previously on the free list. 
According to the explanation given by the Minister members of Parliament will be able to make suggestions to the committee. 
That will save  a  lot of argument. If representations are made to us we can pass them on. Looking through a list of so-called luxury items I see such appliances as vacuum cleaners, mechanical floor polishers and scrubbers. In a hot climate such at that of Queensland domestic mechanical appliances are certainly not luxuries. They are used in thousands of homes, and in many instances are purchased on terms. A tax of 15 per cent. will add considerably to their cost. I urge the Minister to see if such articles can be removed from the section in which they are now placed and included in a division where a lower tax is imposed. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 and 11 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
This is a short measure which becomes necessary in order to change the machinery for collecting sales tax to the new basis upon which the tax will be levied should the budget proposals receive the approval of Parliament. Section 8 of the Sales Tax Procedure Act is a penalty section. Amongst other things it provides that a penalty may be imposed for the omission from returns of particulars of taxable goods or for the inclusion of particulars relating to taxable goods in a column provided for goods in respect of which sales tax is not payable. That provision was adequate when there were only two classes of goods, namely, those subject to tax and those not subject to tax. In the new proposals goods will fall into four classes. There will still be one class not subject to tax, but the goods in the other three classes will be subject to tax at differing rates. New  forms  of return will be now necessary and these will provide separate columns for particulars of goods at the varying rates. It is considered essential for the proper control of understatement and evasion that the scope of section 8 be extended so that it may apply to cases in which goods taxable at any specific rate are included in a column provided for goods taxable at a lower rate. No new principle is involved. The section as it stands contains a proviso enabling the whole or any part of the penalty imposed to be remitted in circumstances in which the error is due to inadvertence. This proviso will also apply to the extension now proposed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move 
That the bills be now read  a second  time. 
The first purpose of the sales tax bills now before the Senate is to increase the general rate of sales tax from81/3 per cent., to 10 per cent. Honorable senators have alreadybeen informed, in connexion with the bill to amend the Sales Tax Exemptions Act, of the considerations which actuated the Government in deciding to increase the rate, rather than to attempt the withdrawal of exemptions of sufficient magnitude to allow the present rate to be maintained. It is unnecessary for me to recapitulate at this stage the reasons for that decision. The increase was decided upon only after other possible means of obtaining the required revenue had been thoroughly explored and examined. 
The second purpose of the measures is to provide differential rates in respect of two other classes of goods, the first being  goods which were previously exempt but which, in the existing circumstances, it is considered can he brought into the taxable field without materially departing from the major principles upon which exemption from sales tax has been hitherto granted. For this class of goods it is proposed to have the relatively low rate of 5 per cent, and, as has been previously explained, the goods to which this rate will apply are set out in the proposed second schedule of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. The second class of goods comprises items already subject to tax, but which, by reason of the fact that the needs they satisfy are less urgent or important, than those satisfied by the ordinary goods of commerce, might well bear a rate greater than that applied to the general goods of commerce. For this class of goods it is proposed to have a rate of 15 per cent., and the goods to which this rate will apply are specifically set out in the proposed third' schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. 
This is the first attempt in the history of sales taxation in Australia to differentiate between taxable goods so far as rate is concerned. Rate differentiation has been avoided in the past, not because of any view that a varying burden could not be justified, hut simply because it  Av.as  realized that the extra classifications involved would increase the difficulties of taxpayers in the compilation of returns, and place an added hurden upon the administration in interpreting, and policing, the legislation. However, the alternative appeared to he an increase in the general rate beyond 10 per cent., an alternative which the Government earnestly wished to avoid. The Government chose, therefore, to adopt the system of differential rates in the belief that the taxpayers upon whom the additional duties of dissection will fall will accept the additional burden as a necessary and inevitable result of the extraordinary revenue requirements of the day, and will prefer that course to a high general rate which might tend to depress sales. 
The new rates are designed to come into operation on or after the commencement of business on Friday, the 2i2nd November, 1940. The specification of a particular date of commencement accords with the usual procedure when a change of rate is contemplated, and is designed to prevent dislocation of trade which would occur should there he delay between the date of the announcement of the Government's intentions and the date when those intentions become effective. Provisions in the machinery of the existing law fully protect vendors who are required to pay the additional tax due to the imposition of the higher rates. Vendors will he enabled to recover the additional amount from any customers who have not paid it when the bill becomes law. If these bills do not .become law, vendors will he enabled to obtain refunds of the excess amounts paid -by them. Provisions in the existing machinery acts also enable vendors of goods previously taxable to recover the additional tax payable from their customers, and contractors to recover the additional cost of materials. Contracts and agreements are deemed to be altered accordingly. Steps will he taken to introduce an appropriate amendment of the machinery act, in order to provide that contracts, or agreements, entered into by vendors who become liable for additional tax, or contractors whose costs of supplying materials are increased by the taxing of goods previously exempt, may be varied to enable the additional amount payable to be recovered by the vendor or contractor. 
The new rates will apply to all taxable transactions and operations in goods effected on and after Friday, the 22nd November, 1940, and will apply also in respect of goods imported on and after that date. 
Even with the increases now proposed, the highest rate in Australia will still be below what is referred to in Great Britain's purchase tax as the reduced rate, viz., 16$ per cent., whilst the basic rate in Great Britain, viz., 33-J per cent., is more than three times as great as the proposed Australian general rate of 10 per cent. As I have already indicated, the Government is setting up a special committee of all parties to inquire into any anomalies or difficulties which might arise in connexion with the new sales tax proposals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without requests or debate. 
This morning  Senator Uppill  asked the Minister representing the Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research,  upon notice - 
Is the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research continuing its investigations into the blowfly pest? 
If so,can the Minister give any information as to what progress has been made? 
Is there any possibility of a practical remedy being released to sheep-owners in the near future? 
The Minister in charge of Scientific and Industrial Research has now supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
Yes. 
This information is given at some length in a recent publication in the form of a practical handbook on blowfly strike in sheep designed to bring together all the information from research that can be applied. It was prepared by the joint blowfly committee which is representative of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture. The handbook is an attempt to present in nontechnical form the best of the known methods of prevention, control and treatment. Its title is  The Prevention and Treatment of BlowflyStrikeinSheep,  and it has been issued as the committee's report No. 2 and the council's pamphlet No. 98. The publication explains why sheep become attractive to blowflies and how strike occurs, thus providing a clear background against which the reader can judge the value in his own circumstances of the various preventative methods. Other sections discuss methods to reduce the sheep's inherited liability to strike, i.e. breeding of plainer-breeched sheep, the Mules operation and tail docking. Crutching, jetting, trapping, baits, carcass disposal and dressings are also discussed. 
There is as yet no easy road to control in sight. Control at present rests on preventative measures that are often time consuming and troublesome. The amount of fly trouble depends upon the thoroughness with which these measures are carried out. 

 Sitting suspended from4.3 to 8 p.m. 

.- I move- 
That, humbly relying on Almighty God, the British Commonwealth of Nations and all upholders of freedom in the world must fight on and accept no peace till they are beyond all question in a position to demand complete security as an indispensable result of peace and that all nations whether belligerent or not should be called upon , to join in establishing one world-armament commonwealth representative of and equally elected by each to which they shall under an agreed constitution completely and irrevocably surrender the sole absolute and exclusive control, ownership, manufacture and possession of armaments and all means and instruments of war and their sovereign lights in relation thereto, and that such constitution to guarantee securitymust be permanent and indissoluble. 2. (a) That such body shall be given possession of all existing armaments upon trust for the whole as one people, (b) Such body shall from its inception be entirely and exclusively responsible for the peace and good order and alsothe guaranteeing of the otherwise unrestricted rights of free self-government of each of the nations, (c) Such body shall also be exclusively responsible for the enforcement of all or any treaty made between the nations, registration of which with such body shall have been mutually requested by such nations, (d) There shall be vested in such body such incidental powers and authorities that may he agreed upon including an appropriately empowered judiciary for the purpose of effectuating the objects for which it is established. 
This Senate of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia in exercise of its constitutional rights in that behalf authorizes and directs  Mr. President  to present this resolution to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, respectfully requesting that it be conveyed to  His  Most Gracious Majesty the King, with the Senate's most earnest expression of opinion that it should be communicated - at the appropriate time - to all the nations of the world for the purpose of examination and action by them. 
With the indulgence of honorable senators, I do not propose to ask the Senate to carry the debate on this motion very far at the present time, because I should prefer it to be discussed at a period when the Senate had settled down to routine business and could give the motion continuous attention until a vote had been taken upon it. It has been suggested at times, and, perhaps, unthinkingly, by those who have not paid close attention to the matter, that some ministerial responsibility might be involved in motions of this kind. This is not a common procedure, but it is one  upon which I hope to he able to secure agreement among honorable senators. The opinion of the Senate of the Commonwealth should be sought at times on matters of world-wide importance, so that it may stand before the world, like the Senate of the United States of America, and earn the respect of at least the democratic nations as a body whose opinions are of consequence in the affairs of mankind. If I were privileged to continue to be a member of this chamber, I should he extremely ambitious to obtain the enthusiastic support of my fellow senators for this procedure. 
It was almost tragic to hear  Senator A.  J. McLachlan last night give it as his experience, that during the fifteen years he has been a member of the Senate, the Financial Agreement is the only measure of national importance passed by this chamber. I pass no opinion on. that one way or another. If that remark of the honorable senator was justified, I respectfully and sincerely suggest to honorable senators that, after all, the blame rests not alone on us, hut on a succession of senates. Whatever the Senate of the United States of America may be - and we know that it has established certain committees which have a wide influence in the world - the fact remains that those committees do not exist under the Constitution of' the United States of America. They exist to-day only because they are the product of the will of the men who have constituted the successive senates of that great republic. There is nothing to prevent the present Senate or any future Senate of the Commonwealth from placing this branch of the legislature in such a proud position that it will deserve something more than the flippant and almost foolish criticism which has been published in the press throughout Australia, and of which we have had occasion more than once to complain. 
Under the Commonwealth Constitution, it is provided that, in matters on which we have laid down our own procedure, our Standing Orders are the rules by which we are to be guided; but, where the Standing Orders are silent, we follow the procedure of the Mother of Parliaments. We have provided for several ways of expressing the opinion of a house of parliament to the head of the Empire as the focal .point through whom we hope to attract the attention of the wider public, not only throughout our own Empire, but also throughout the whole world. It is laid down in May's  Parliamentary Practice  that either House has an inherent right to express its opinion on a matter of domestic or foreign concern to  His  Majesty direct by resolution. The only exception, I think, is that the House may not deal with a matter which is before it at the time by way of a legislative proposal. So far from that restriction fixing responsibility upon  His  Majesty's Ministers of the day, it does nothing of the kind, because, after the House has carried such a motion, the practice is for the motion to he presented by the  Speaker  or, in the Mother Parliaments, by the Lord Chancellor direct to  His  Majesty. A similar practice has been followed in this chamber. This motion, if passed, may be presented by you,  Mr. President,  accompanied, I presume, by the proposer and seconder, direct to  His Excellency  the Governor-General for transmission to the King. A similar motion, which was carried hy the Senate three or four years ago, was, in fact, submitted by the .then  President  of the Senate to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, and transmitted to the King, and its receipt was acknowledged by  His  Majesty. Therefore, that precedent has been established. During the debate on that motion, members of the then Ministry, hy interjection, disclosed the idea, which seemed to he in their minds, that it was futile to send such a motion through that channel in that way, owing to the provisions of the Statute of Westminster. That statute certainly binds Great Britain, but not Australia. It was argued  by the  Ministry at that time that the only result would be that  His  Majesty, under the Statute of Westminster, would send the resolution hack to his Australian Cabinet for consideration by his Australian advisers; but that was entirely a misconception. The Statute of Westminster would certainly bind  His  Majesty constitutionally to do that in a case where the matter dealt with was a dominion one, but, in the case of a world-wide matter, that provision could not possibly apply. Therefore,  Mr. President,  I say, with the  greatest respect for my friends, the honorable members of  His  Majesty's Government "who are sitting in this chamber, that, in taking this course, I have no desire to be disrespectful in the slightest degree to  His  Majesty's Ministry, or in any way to derogate its powers, dignities and functions. Therefore, I impress upon Ministers that there can be no question of ministerial responsibility being  attached to this motion, which I hope to be able to convince the Senate should be passed. Ministers can either abstain from, or take part in, these proceedings as individual senators, because, if the motion he agreed to, it will only go out as the opinion of the Senate as a House exercising the inherent right of expression to which I have referred, and which has never been taken away by the Standing Orders. I reiterate that with no supercilious idea of thrusting any advice of my own upon my fellow senators; hut I beg them, and future generations of senators in Australia, to try to bring this Senate into such a position of importance in the affairs of the world that the cheap and miserable criticism that has so often been hurled at it should never again be justified. With confidence I ask honorable senators to take this matter closely to their hearts for the honour of Australia, and for the vindication of that democratic system which it is vital for us to preserve. I hope honorable senators will not think that, in inviting their close attention to this motion, I am asking them to par.tipicate in an idle, useless or time-wasting discussion. 
I have referred to the question of procedure. I hope that I shall not have to deal with that matter at a later period. By referring to  May,  and to our own Standing Orders and to the Constitution, it is open to any honorable senator to verify what I have said. I have not intentionally said anything to mislead honorable senators. This Senate has the right to initiate any legislation, subject to the limited restrictions placed on it in respect of money hills. To the present Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay),  and to all future leaders of the Senate, I appeal for the exercise of this right from time to time. I hope that I shall not he called upon by my fellow senators, after they have given mature thought to this matter, to apologize for anything that I have said in relation to it. This is not an idle motion, nor something which I have introduced in order to direct the limelight to myself. I have no desire to inaugurate a pedantic debate. Before asking for leave to continue my remarks, which I shall do presently, I wish briefly to indicate to honorable senators what I mean by saying that this is not an idle motion or a stunt. I ask for the sincere co-operation of honorable senators in a matter of world importance. Only a week or two ago .a distinguished Minister of the Australian Government, in addressing a gathering in Sydney, spoke of the desirability of planning economically for reconstruction after the war. That thought is being expressed by leaders of thought in many countries. I want the Senate to take one step more towards crystallizing that thought. In economic, political, and constitutional spheres there is a nebulous idea that plans must be made now so that when real peace comes, and not merely a cessation of fighting, preparations will be well in hand. 
There is not much evidence of it in the world to-day; but if the honorable senator will read the literature which I have prepared he will find that that question has been dealt with. 
The issuing of the order " cease fire " would not, of itself, bring peace, for peace comes only with security. The only peace worth having for the democracies of the world is a peace which will ensure that in the future no gangster, burglar, or aggressor, will again bring agony and misery to the world. We waste time and effort if we fight for anything less than that. I agree that there must he a wholehearted war effort on the part of not only Australia, but also every other part of the British Empire. The struggle may bring impoverishment hut if we retain a freedom in which we shall be entitled to express our opinions, and live according to our consciences, without the overshadowing presence of the Gestapo and  the fear of internment camps the struggle will have been worth while. That is the only kind of peace that is worth having, even though it may mean a new order in many things. Here I say to  Senator Darcey  that I have read literature prepared by many who, like him, advocate reforms, and it appears that they are afraid of anything in the nature of a world federation. To a great degree I share that fear. I do not want to propose setting up machinery which in any way will mean the surrender of the freedom of nations. I propose to submit to the Senate a proposal for security in the matter of armaments. I want to see established a world in which private armament racketeering shall not exist. I ask honorable senators not to forget that there is also such a thing as national armament racketeering. If we suggest to the world that the control of armamentmaking shall be placed with one central body, we must be perfectly fair and grant equal representation to the peoples of the world. That means the establishment of an equal electoral system. Unfortunately, many nations do not understand the principles of democracy, and need educating. I agree with the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  and others that we must plan now for the post-war period, and not leave our preparations until the last minute. However beautiful, may be the schemes for the improvement of the world, whether economic, social or otherwise, what is their value if in 25 or 30 years' time another cruel international gangster or burglar destroys that beautiful edifice that has been erected? Let us strive for security, under the shelter and protection of which mankind may erect an edifice which will make the world a better place. Let us hope that that will be the result of the misery and agony of this world war. I am no pacifist, although in times of peace I would do much to preserve peace. But it is a snare and an illusion to talk of peace when there is no guarantee of security for the peoples of the world. We tried it when we established the League of Nations. World peace and security were not then thought to be impracticable. We thought then that the sanctions behind the League Covenant would be an effective means of policing the world, but we learned that because its constitution was not indissoluble, and nations were free to withdraw from the League. When the time of testing came the League of Nations failed because other nations said to Britain, " You can do the dirty work ". 
 The League of Nations would not have failed had all the nations remained members. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned: 
.- At this stage I do not propose to discuss the merits or demerits of the Government's budget proposals, but I shall deal with two or three outstanding subjects which require consideration. I wish to make it quite clear that there are very many proposals in the budget with which I, and other honorable senators on this side of the chamber, do not agree. Although the budget contains the result of the compromise reached between the representatives of political parties in this Parliament, it is not in accordance with the Labour party's policy. When the budget was introduced in the House of Representatives, Labour members attempted to obtain as many concessions as possible from the Government. It is pleasing to find that some were granted, but honorable senators on this side of the chamber would be happier had Labour's representations with respect to invalid and old-age pensions and a statutory exemption of £250 been favourably considered by the Government. During the last twelve months, we have been hearing of obstacles being placed in the way of shipbuilding, and to-night I shall deal first with the background of that problem, and then with the obstacles which have been presented. 
Shipbuilding could have been one of our greatest industries had sufficient attention been given to its development. Trouble first arose after the last war when, on the 24th March, 1920, the then Minister for Trade and Customs  (Sir Walter Massy-Greene)  brought down a tariff schedule, one of the objects of which was to establish and protect new industries, and to assist the expansion of existing industries. In that schedule a British preferential duty of 5 per cent. ad valorem, and a general rate of 35 per cent. ad. valorem, was imposed on vessels of a tonnage suitable for use in interstate or intra-state trade but the duties imposed were not to become operative until January, 1923. During those three years local requirements for many years were fulfilled and the local shipbuilding industry was completely disorganized. In 1919-20 the value of vessels imported into Australia was only £160,000; but as a direct result of the  tariff, the value of ships imported in 1920- 21 increased to £1,700,000. In 1921- 22 the figures reached £4,334,000, in 1922-23 they were reduced to £2,750,000, and in 1923-24 they were approximately £250,000. Those figures speak for themselves. As soon as the new tariff was announced firms such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, W. E. Carpenter and Company, the North Coast Steamship Company, and the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, some of which owe their existence to the help given by the Australian people and Australian Governments, purchased vessels overseas, and during the threeyears' period mentioned, ships of a total value of £9,000,000 were imported into Australia. Even as late as 1932, the Tariff Board recommended that action be taken to lay down in Australia the foundations of the shipbuilding industry. Had that been done this industry would have been established and would have provided one of our first lines of defence, but unfortunately the industry is still in its initial stages. In 1932, the Tariff Board reported that three vessels a year would meet Australian requirements. Nothing was done to implement the Tariff Board's report. It is interesting to note that from 1932-33 to 1937-38, 43 vessels averaging 500 tons gross, and of a total value of £5,900,000, were imported. This represents a requirement of nearly ten vessels a year for the Australian trade. Of that number 41 were constructed in British shipping yards, one in Denmark and one in China. Had Australian interests been compelled to support the Australian shipbuilding industry during the last ten years, Australia would now be 'building cargo vessels at a rate that would help to replenish the terrific losses which we have incurred during recent months, and concerning which Ministers probably know more than we do. Unfortunately, there is an aspect of the shipbuilding industry which is very unsavoury. Apart from the injustice done to Australia by the Australian business interests, which should have been forced to support the establishment of the Australian shipbuilding industry, it appears that pressure has been exerted by British interests which, no doubt, feared the loss of trade should shipbuilding in Australia be established on a sound basis. We are now facing a serious position. Huge losses are being inflicted on British shipping, and the gravity of the position should be emphasized. As  Mr. Hanson  Baldwin, military correspondent of the New York  Times,  said, " The war is rapidly 'becoming more and more a race for a victory at sea ". That opinion is held both by people with inside knowledge and by the man in the street. It is the considered opinion of almost every one that victory will depend on the ability of Great Britain to maintain and protect our shipping lanes. Shipping losses have increased to such an amazing total that Great Britain has been forced to appeal to the United States of America for assistance. Why should such an appeal be made to America and no action be taken to utilize Australia's shipbuilding facilities. Undoubtedly, America has the facilities for building ships in large numbers as was done during the last war, but Australia's claims have not been given sufficient attention. During the last three months, Great Britain has been losing ships at the rate of 4,000,000 tons a year. The position is made even worse by the fact that Great Britain cannot use its naval forces against the enemy with the same effect, or in the same strength as during the last war. At the outbreak of the last war, Great Britain had 218 destroyers, and France, Italy and Russia had 224, making a total of 442, of which only about ten had been lost up to September, 1915. At the outbreak of the present war, Great Britain had only 179  detroyers,  and up to date, 40 of these have been lost. It is true that an additional 50 destroyers have been obtained from the United States of America, but those vessels do not compare favorably with British ships now on active service. For the last 25 years, the American destroyers have been out of commission, and I understand that they are not equipped with armoured decking, as are the British destroyers, which have been built to stand up to the attacks from the air. However, America's gesture of friendship is welcome, and although the vessels are old they are of inestimable value to the Empire. The balance of sea-power swung towards our enemies when Italy entered the war. The French Navy is no longer able to protect British shipping, but owing to the shortage of naval craft, particularly destroyers, convoys of ships plying to and from Great Britain are inadequately protected. Proof of that was shown a few weeks ago, when it was revealed that a convoy of 30 or 40 ships was protected by only an armed merchantman or auxiliary cruiser. The shortage of shipping is the most serious problem now facing Great Britain, and will become more acute unless more adequate protection is provided for the convoys endeavouring to penetrate the German blockade. Whereas in 1914-18 Germany had no outlet to the sea, except through the ports of the Baltic and on its own short strip of North Sea coast, to-day it has bases from Narvik to Dakar. The gravity of the shipping problem is apparent to every one. In Australasian waters more than 100,000 tons of shipping has been sunk, bringing the war to our threshold. The Minister for the Navy in New Zealand,  Mr. Jones,  is pessimistic about the prospects of capturing the raiders which are taking toll of our shipping, but I am disinclined to agree with him, and I hope that the efforts that are being made from this side of the Tasman Sea to trap the enemy vessels will succeed. While raiders are at large we must expect to lose ships. In view of the gravity of our position, I am disappointed that, while the Government is applying a progressive policy of naval ship-building, it has not even tried to lay down the basis of a merchant shipbuilding industry. The production of merchant vessels to my mind is almost as important as the production of BristolBeaufort bombers. 
 Mr. Churchill  must be considered an expert and he has said that the TJ-boat is a greater menace to Great Britain than all the bombers which have attacked London, Southampton and Birmingham. There is nothing spectacular about the mercantile marine; its job is done without praise or publicity, but it is a most important job and it is done wonderfully well. We should use every facility we possess in order to build vessels for the merchant fleet. 
Their advice is that naval ship-building must have priority, not that merchant vessels ought not be built. In Australian shipyards to-day about 40 naval vessels are either in course of construction or are projected. Those vessels include 1,900-ton destroyers of the " Tribal " class and sloops of 600 or '700 tons. It is not impossible for the industry also to engage in the building of freighters. 
I am supported by the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes)  who, according to yesterday's Sydney  Sun,  declared that merchant shipbuilding was as vital to Australia as to Britain. That is on the ona hand. On the other the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Harrison),  whose department is directly concerned, says that Cabinet is examining shipbuilding " as a long-range problem ". Hitler might not let the war last long enough for a long-range plan to be put into operation. France intended to fight this war on a long-range basis and thought that, safely behind the Maginot line, by means of a blockade it could starve Germany into submission. We know what happened to that long-range plan. Early in the war Great Britain had the same illusions about long-range planning. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  says that the question of building merchant vessels is under review, but the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  has impressed upon the Government the need to add to our merchant fleet. He said - 
Australia cannot blind herself to the gravity of recent British shipping losses ... if Hitler can succeed in delivering these smashing blows to British shipping and continue unchecked this terrible punishment on our sea borne trade our national resistance will be gradually weakened and it may end in our undoing. 
I have the support of the Minister for the Navy and the Minister for the Army ; the Prime Minister and the Minister for Trade and Customs want a review of the  situation. The most pungent remarks about this position that I have read came from the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, who was responsible in  1914-18  for the establishment of a highly successful shipbuilding industry in this country. He said - 
But I am looking back on what was done twenty-five years ago, and I do not find the arguments against launching into the enterprise very convincing. 
He went on to say - 
The sinkings struck a blow at the roots of Australia's export and primary industries, an integral part of Australia's economic structure. 
Owing to the German occupation of a large portion of Europe, Great Britain, with the exception of the United States of America, is about our only market. Our lack of shipping space, however, prevents our taking the fullest advantage of the opportunities that the British market offers. We have sold  36,000,000  bushels of wheat to Great Britain, but we cannot export it because of insufficiency of cargo space. That is something that the Minister cannot deny. 
The Government cannot take refuge behind the excuse that there is an insufficiency of skilled labour in this country to build other than war vessels. I suppose that in  1914-18  the number of skilled shipbuilders in this country was small, but that did not prevent us achieving a great success when we embarked upon the construction of ships. I remind honorable senators that when the construction of Wirraway aircraft was started at Fisherman's Bend by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation there was no superfluity of men skilled in aircraft construction.  Mr. Wackett,  who was entrusted with the foundation of the industry, said he had to search Australia for the men who had worked with him at Cockatoo Dock and Randwick years before. The experience gained by these men served as a base for the education and training of the workmen at present engaged in the aircraft industry. At the Fisherman's Bend factory to-day there are between  2,000  and  3,000  men who have become either skilled or semiskilled in aircraft production. When the industry started  Mr. Wackett  did not go to labour bureaux and say " I want  25  men skilled in the aircraft industry ". 
As he has said, he had to go around the country and pick up men with whom he had worked at Cockatoo Dock. He drew them from poultry farms and from behind the counter where they had gone owing to the lack of continuity in the shipbuilding industry. If the Government can promise permanent employment in that industry the men who left it in desperation will return to it. Plenty of skilled men could be found if they were wanted. 
The men are available if they are assured of permanency. To-day those men occupy permanent positions in other industries and they will not leave them without that assurance.  Mr. Wackett  got the men he wanted because he was able to offer them continuity of employment. On the same terms skilled men who have found other vocations because of broken work in the shipbuilding industry would go back to that industry. It is not necessary that ship yards be entirely staffed by skilled tradesmen. What is needed is a sufficient number of skilled tradesmen to train other workers. The Minister smiles but after Dunkirk the British Government was able to release many members of the Royal Air Force to come to Australia to instruct men in the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Yes, a sufficient number to do the -job. At every air force station which I have visited, including Cootamundra, Wagga, Narrandera, Rathmines, I have seen some of these Englishmen who have been sent out here to make No.  1  pilots of our airmen. As Great Britain has been able to supply us with so many of these experts at a time when it was facing the greatest attack in its history, it must be able to loan to Australia sufficient numbers of dockyard workers to enable us to establish and develop the shipbuilding industry in this country. Although for the most part we have been given to understand that only residences and shops have suffered at the hands of German bombers, news has seeped through during the last few days which  indicates that war production in Britain has been seriously impeded as the result of German air attacks. The effect of indiscriminate bombing alone on production must be substantial. In a recent issue of the American magazine  Life  I saw aerial photographs of the Thames estuary produced by the German minister for propaganda. Such objects as oil tanks, docks and wharfs presented a wideopen target to air attack. This must be the case also in the other great industrial centres in Britain. "Whilst factories can, to a large degree, he effectively camouflaged against air attack, and can even be placed underground, it is almost impossible to disguise shipbuilding yards. Consequently, we can assume that British shipbuilding has suffered to some degree from aerial attack. In these circumstances it should bc possible for the British Government to make available to Australia the services of thousands of British workers skilled in shipbuilding. The development of shipbuilding is fundamental to our defence. If sufficient skilled men are not available in Australia to enable us to embark immediately upon this industry on a big scale, the Government should act on my suggestion and secure the necessary workmen from Britain. It would pay us to adopt such a plan regardless of cost. I should like to know whether the Government has given any consideration to such a proposal. Judging from its attitude towards all requests to go ahead as speedily as possible with shipbuilding in this country, the Government appears to have lost confidence in the Australian people. The progress which has been made at Whyalla is sufficient answer to such an attitude. Over 2,000 men are now employed at Whyalla in the iron and steel and shipbuilding industries, whereas a few years ago very few skilled men were employed there. Unfortunately, however, the Government prefers to dodge problems of this kind as long as it can. In most instances it fails to take action until circumstances force it to do so. Twelve months ago it appointed  Mr. Townsend,  an officer of the Customs Department, to report upon the possibility of shipbuilding in this country. That report has been in the hands of the Government for a considerable time. 
Why has it not yet been made available to Parliament? Surely no sound reason can exist for withholding it, unless it be that it disposes of the contention of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Harrison)  that we are not capable of establishing the industry in this country. The history of industry in Australia proves that the Australian workman has succeeded in every task which has been given to him. Admittedly the history of Mort's Dock and Cockatoo Island makes disagreeable reading, particularly from the viewpoint of the workers. I recall that just after the outbreak of war unemployment among the ironworkers in Sydney had reached a record. It is only within the last few months that the ranks of those men have been gradually reduced. The failure of the company at Mort's Dock to attract these workers is easily explained. That company's reputation in regard to its treatment of employees is unfavorable. It does not show the slightest consideration for the welfare of its workers. It makes no effort to provide continuity of employment for its employees. Consequently the company had to look to such centres as Newcastle as a source of labour supply. But that action on its part cannot he accepted as evidence of a shortage of skilled labour. Last night, when we were discussing bills to provide assistance to primary industries, we learned that producers, including apple and pear growers, were unable to market large proportions of their products because no ships were available to transport them overseas. We were also told that over 36,000,000 bushels of wheat from last year's crop was still on hand, although it had been sold to the British Government. Had past governments exercised a little foresight, and established the shipbuilding industry, our primary industries would not be faced with their present difficulties. 
The story of Walsh Island makes tragic reading. At one time it gave promise of becoming one of the most important industrial centres in Australia. However, the plant was sold for £49,000. The Premier of New South Wales recently stated that the present cost of replacing that plant would not be less than £100,000.  Mr. Telford  Simpson, a director of Mort's Dock, declared that the cost would he no less than £400,000. However, in view of the fact that a private company would naturally he disinclined to encourage in any way the establishment of an undertaking which would be a potential competitor after the war, I do not place much reliance on  Mr. Simpson's  estimate. To-day we are paying dearly for the actions of anti-Labour governments in disposing of such valuable State-owned enterprises as the "Walsh Island dockyard. The Prices Commissioners in New South Wales would be much happier to-day if State-owned brickworks and timber-yards were operating in that State. The dismantling of Walsh Island dockyard was tragic. To-day a sad sight meets the eye of the visitor. On the spot where some years ago the dockyards were a hive of activity only rusting machinery can now be seen, leaving the onlooker to visualize what might have been. The fate of Walsh Island dockyard reminds me of the lines of Sheridan, who, in referring to the sorry state of India after Hastings' rule, asked - 
What monster has stalked over the country poisoning -with pestiferous breath what the greedy appetite could not devour? 
The story of Walsh Island prompts me to ask the same question. Plant which could not be disposed of by anti-Labour governments to their friends in private enterprise was smashed under the hammer and sold as junk. Should there be any danger of a shortage of iron ore, I suggest that shipbuilding yards be established adjacent to Yampi Sound. The establishment of dockyards at Yampi Sound would forward Labour's policy of decentralization and relieve the pressure of industry in the eastern States where factories are finding it almost impossible to enter upon a war production on as large a scale as they would like. To-day, only .corners of these factories are devoted to war production. In the building of ships much of the work can he sub-let to firms who carry on business away from the waterfront, only from 40 per cent, to 50 per cent, of the work has to be done in the dockyards. Before I became a member of the Senate, shipbuilding was under discussion, and it is high time that that thought was translated into action. The Townsend report on shipbuilding is available for guidance in this matter. In view of the fact that the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  have recommended that this work should be put in hand at the earliest possible date, there should be no further delay in the building of a mercantile marine for Australia. For the defence of the Empire, for the survival of our primary industries and, finally, for the establishment of a great Australian industry, this work must be commenced at once. 
Insufficient attention has been paid to air-raids precautions work in Australia. In March, 1939, the Premiers of the States met in Canberra and agreed to make preparations for air raids, but for a long time little or nothing was done. In Sydney it was found at first that it was not difficult to recruit wardens for this work; but it was soon discovered that, owing to lack of long-range planning, and the necessary facilities for the training of wardens, interest in the movement waned. Six or eight months ago, there was an uproar in Sydney when it was realized that there was a shortage of thousands of wardens. If the Government considers that it is unnecessary to train men for the work they would have to do in the event of air raids, it should say so; but, if it believes that educational training is necessary, a Minister should be called upon to co-ordinate the activities of the State authorities. Training has been commenced in Sydney, but I understand that very few wardens have been trained in Melbourne. An official described as the Director of Civilian Defence and State Co-operation, who is stationed at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, is paid £742 a year. Whether he discharges the duties which his title suggests is quite another matter. 
I am surprised to find that the basis on which air-raids precaution work is being carried on to-day is the same as that laid down in March, 1939. The many lessons that have been learnt in London during the recent bombing raids have not been acted upon in Australia. When the wardens are recruited to-day they are given about eight lectures, four of which relate to gas attacks. No time at all is devoted to the study of organization, . which I should say is the most important phase of a warden's work. It seems to me that it is urgently necessary to re-organize air-raids precautions work in Australia. Nobody seems to know which is the right kind of shelter to provide. Protest meetings have been held in Balmain where deep air-raid shelters are advocated; but the authorities in Sydney declare that deep shelters are traps. Recent experience in England showed that deep shelters were undesirable because the facilities available underground are insufficient to protect the health of the people using them.  Mr. Mair,  the Premier of New South Wales, and  Mr. Bruxner,  the Minister in charge of National Emergency .Services, do not seem to be able to agree as to what is the best course to follow in the interests of the civilian population. Although the war effort will cost Australia hundreds of millions of pounds, the sum provided for air-raids precautions this year by the Commonwealth is only £17,000. This amount includes £1,950 for the salaries of the Director of Civilian Defence and State Co-operation, five clerks, and a typist. Other items of expenditure are: - Provision and maintenance of anti-gas equipment for training purpose, £5,800; maintenance of reserves of anti-gas equipment and stores, £5,000; schools of training for personnel of Air Raids Precautions Services, £1,000 ; and incidental expenses, £1,000 ; a total of £12,S00. I have had some experience of the educational work being carried out for the training of wardens. In New South Wales, the classes consist of twenty persons, who receive a week's training. More money than has been provided is required for the training of the necessary men. I notice that £500 is being made available for this work in the Australian Capital Territory. The money made available by the Government of New South Wales has been reduced by about £20,000. I do not know whether the necessary equipment has been purchased; but, as the menace draws nearer, the interest in this matter appears to dwindle. 
As an alderman of the Sydney City Council, I have tried to assist in this movement. The first conclusion I reached was that many more men would have to be trained for the work, and that the personnel should be increased by about 1,000. Those who give their time for the training of wardens render a valuable service to the community, and they deserve every encouragement. There should be a paid organizer in each district to assist the district warden. If this job is worth doing, it should be done properly. There is a wide difference of opinion as to what is required in this direction.  Mr. Bruxner  claims that the organization in New South Wales is perfect. Addressing the aldermen on the City Council some weeks ago, he referred to the great success that had been obtained in connexion with the training of wardens in Moree, which is 560 miles from Sydney. One of the aldermen who represents Fitzroy suggested to  Mr. Bruxner  that it would be advisable for him to visit Woolloomooloo in order to see what had not been done there in the matter of airraids precautions. There should be Australiawide co-ordination of this work and financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government.  Mr. Bruxner  said that he had laid all his plans on the assumption that a period of six weeks would elapse between the first warning and the actual danger. I hope that he is right in that regard, but I have doubts on the matter.  Sir Archibald  Howie, who has been advising the Commonwealth Government with regard to building construction throughout Australia, has stated that at least six months would be required to provide reasonable air-raid shelters for Sydney and the inner-metropoltian  areas* but, because of lack of co-ordination of this work, there is disagreement regarding it.  '[Extension of time granted.]  It is most important that a federal Minister should have the work of air-raid precautions co-ordination as part of his ministerial duties. It is only by this means that air-raids precautions organizations can be brought to a satisfactory state. 
I now wish to refer to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I do not join with the daily press, particularly that of New South Wales, in attacking the Australian Broadcasting Commission, although that body has not always pleased me. Some time ago I made some representations to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  regarding 
Jim Davidson's band, "which, I believe, is an acquisition (to any  Broadcasting  station. If the commission were to allow that band to disperse merely because  a  few thousand pounds is involved,  it  would be doing a grave injustice to the public of Australia. I have complained also of the treatment of Australian artists by  the  commission. Many of these  men and  women have moved in the highest musical circles abroad, yet on their return to Australia, they have been ignored by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. As I have said, I have not always been pleased with' what the commission has done; but I shall not be a party to the attacks made upon it by the New South Wales press. I well remember that when the present Minister for Trade and Customs was Postmaster-General, the Sydney  Sun  launched a campaign against him. I am credibly  informed  that  Mr. Harrison  had an interview with representatives of Sydney newspapers, during which the language used was not that of a kindergarten. Trouble arose over advertising conditions for programmes which the Australian Broadcasting Commission wished to publish in various newspapers. When the disagreement occurred,  Mr. Harrison  said that there were other means of acquainting the public with the commission's programme. The result was the establishment of the  A.B.C. Weekly.  I do not know whether inefficient management has caused that publication to lose money in the first twelve months of its existence; hut I do know that some of the principal newspapers of Australia lost large sums when first published. That was so in the case of Consolidated Newspapers, the  Women's Weekly  and the  Daily Telegraph.  My recollection is that the  Women's Weekly  lost a colossal sum in its first twelve months, although it had a circulation of between 150,000 and 200,000. To-day its circulation is much greater. In the early life of a journal, when expenses are extraordinary and non-recurring, losses are likely. The  A.B.O. Weekly  has been published at  a  loss. I do not know whether those losses are greater than they should have been, but the mere fact of losses is not sufficient to condemn the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Prior to the last federal election, there was a drive against certain men in the political sphere. It was suggested that the right men had not always been selected, and there was a search for " outstanding candidates ". Am " outstanding candidate " was found to contest the  Wentworth  electorate against  Mr. Harrison.  The newspaper magnates did not forget that he had opposed them. Apparently the wound that he had made was deep and had not healed. For the first week or two of the campaign,  Mr. Harrison  could not get any publicity in the Sydney newspapers ;  but  later the proprietors of those journals realized that they were doing him more good than harm by their action, and so they gave some little publicity to his remarks. The first blow against the " outstanding candidate" was struck in an interview reported in  Truth.  It was found that he was a solicitor associated with Consolidated Press, and that his campaign director had been relieved of his duties with the  Daily Telegraph  in order to ensure that the " outstanding candidate " for Wentworth would be returned to Parliament instead of  Mr. Harrison,  who had sanctioned the establishment of the  A. B.C. Weekly.  However, the electors of Wentworth realized that the drive against the retiring member had its foundation in his advocacy of a journal on behalf of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and they re-elected  Mr. Harrison.  When I first heard of this attack on the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I looked for the "nigger in the woodpile ". For some time there has been a press campaign of misrepresentation and distortion of the activities  of  the Australian Broadcasting .Commission. Any artist whom the commission had employed and put off, could be sure of space in the newspapers to attack the commission. On the experience of Great Britain and New Zealand, it is essential that the Australian Broadcasting Commission shall have its own journal. Big business and monopolies are ruthless in seeking their own ends, and it would be a sorry day if the commission did not have its own mouthpiece. I firmly believe that if the commission decided to cease publication of its journal, it would receive advertising space in the Sydney newspapers free, or at reduced rates. That arrangement would last for a time, until the journal ceased publication, after which the gun would be held to the head of the commission, as before. 
That is so. This publication is in active competition with big business; it is the only unfettered organ of propaganda in Australia; it is not working for profit as are the B-class stations. Australia needs such an unfettered journal. The Melbourne  Herald  controls an extensive chain of radio stations, as also does the Sydney  Sun  which has big interests in the Macquarie network, and so are in active business competition with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In the last few months, the programmes of the Australian Broadcasting Commission have improved greatly. I have mentioned the excellent programmes that Jim Davidson's band renders for the benefit of listeners. The losses on the  A.B.C. Weekly  are decreasing, whilst its circulation is increasing. That is only natural, and the day will come soon when this publication will be self-supporting. But even were it to continue to be run at a loss, so long as that loss was not excessive, its publication would be worth while in order to ensure that the commission would continue to be independent of the newspapers whose code of honour is not of the highest standard. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is a government enterprise, and although I disagree with some aspects of its administration, I would not lift my voice to assist the Sydney press to injure it. I doubt the validity of the attacks against the commission, and the truth of some of the statements that have appeared in the press. I say definitely that if I can do anything to assist the commission against private enterprise, I shall be happy to do so. I trust that the  A..B.C. Weekly  will be retained as a bulwark against the power of the press. 
.- The Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  in introducing his budget, providing for the expenditure of  £150,000,000  from revenue, said that he had the unhappy distinction to introduce the largest budget ever brought before an Australian Parliament. His predecessor said the same thing when he introduced an earlier budget providing for an expenditure from revenue of  £100,000,000.  If this record be maintained, one wonders where the money will be found. The Opposition agrees that the money must be found if the war is to be prosecuted to a successful conclusion. We on this side are concerned with two features of the budget, the first of which is its disregard of the principle that taxes should be imposed according to the ability to pay. Secondly, it is essential that the money be expended economically, and with due consideration to the claims of all States. I listened with interest to  Senator Spicer,  who expressed some concern for the people on low incomes, but he did not suggest any method by which relief could be afforded to them. The honorable senator seemed pleased to relate that in Vic- toria there are only  10,000  unemployed. I shall look forward to the time when there will be no unemployed in Victoria or in any other part of the Commonwealth. The honorable senator did not give the reason why unemployment in Victoria has decreased. 
Not at all. The reason for the relatively prosperous conditions in Victoria is that the Commonwealth Government is expending an unnecessarily large proportion of money appropriated for defence purposes in that State. 
If all the coal, iron and steel supplies are in New South Wales, that it a good reason why there should be more factories in that State. 
I am not suggesting that. Figures supplied in answer to a question asked by  Senator Clothier  show that for every three persons engaged in the manufacture of arms and munitions in government factories in Victoria, only one is employed in similar establishments in New South Wales. The actual figures given are: Now South Wales 6,368 males and 455 females; Victoria, 17,015 males and 4,335 females. The weekly wages bill in New South Wales is £41,93S, compared with £119,349 in Victoria. Those figures do not take into consideration the clothing factories, the subsidized aircraft manufacturing industry, and many other defence undertakings located in Victoria. Only a few weeks ago, the following paragraph appeared in the press : - 
That figure is a very conservative estimate. In the compilation of these statistics, only registered trade unionists are included, but many others are unemployed. If people who are debarred by the permissible income regulations from registration for sustenance work were taken into account, the number of unemployed in New South Wales would be nearer 60,000 than 40,000. People who have subsisted on sustenance for years find it impossible to get work. Defence contractors want efficient employees, and will not consider employing men broken in spirit and starved by the dole. Some of the defence work should be done 'by day labour in order to give to the unemployed work which would enable them to rehabilitate themselves and take their rightful place in industry. 
The construction of military and internment camps. 
There is plenty of labouring work to he done. I contrast the position of the unemployed who have not done any military training with those who have spent three months in camp as universal trainees. Those in the latter class have returned to civil life with an  entirely changed mental outlook. They have been well fed and well clad, whereas before going into camp they had to go to the police station for the dole. They can now seek work with renewed confidence. If those over military age are given the opportunity to work and live under decent conditions similar results will be achieved. I welcome the appointment of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr. Holt),  who is doing good work. 1 hope that his activities will embrace the formulation of a system under which the unemployed will, through work, be given the opportunity to live a normal life. 
That is news to me. 
Most of the unemployed that I know are not in a position to buy even a newspaper. 
A striking example of the preference which this Government gives to Victoria in the allocation of defence expenditure is the decision to establish the Royal Australian Air Force bombing school at Lake Victoria, which, although situated on the northern bank of the Murray River, is so near to Victoria that it can be regarded as a Victorian activity. A survey was made of various towns in New South Wales, and Condobolin, near Lake Cargelligo, appeared to have reasonable prospects of selection. The authorities, however, rejected Lake Cargelligo, which is five miles long by three wide, has good depth and would appear to be eminently suitable for bomb target practice, on the ground that it was not quite large enough. I do not think that the possibilities of that lake were investigated sufficiently, because it has since been discovered that the area of water could be increased by connecting the lake with the Wyangala Dam. The policy of " do it in Victoria or as close to Victoria as possible " is in decided contrast to the policy of decentralization which was featured in the campaign speeches of the United Austra lia party and United Country party candidates at the last general elections. Representatives of the parties opposite invariably preach, but never practice, decentralization, notwithstanding the fact that decentralization of defence activities would give a fillip to country towns which are languishing owing to the enlistment of their young men. I am not convinced that Lake Cargelligo would not meet all the needs of the Royal Australian Air Force for bombing practice, and I appeal to the Government to carry out its pledge to decentralize its defence activities at least to the degree of giving to Condobolin the advantage that it would derive from having the bombing school established at Lake Cargelligo. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill relates to the imposition of a war-time tax upon public companies. The Government gave exhaustive consideration to many proposals for the raising of the additional revenue required to meet war expenditure, and it was finally decided, in order to obtain from public companies that proportion of the additional revenue which should be contributed by them, to impose a tax upon the amount by which the profit of a company exceeds a specified percentage of the capital employed. 
This measure differs considerably from the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act which operated in 1914-18. That act applied to businesses of individuals and partnerships as well as to those of companies. It imposed a tax on the amount by which the profits of the war-time years exceeded a pre-war standard. Businesses which made large profits in pre-war years and continued to make them in the war-time years paid little or no tax, although there was no doubt as to their ability to make a special contribution to the war effort. "Reference has been made on several occasions to a report by the former Commissioner of Taxation in his seventh annual report, on the operation of the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act. As the present measure represents a distinct departure from the principle of that act, the Commissioner's report will bear repetition. He said - 
The tax is unequal and harsh in its incidence. These features of it are due to its peculiar construction, which, as shown by the figures quoted, permitted escape from the tax of the vast majority of large and oldestablished businesses which have made consistently substantial profits, both in amount and in percentage on capital employed, whilst small and struggling businesses, particularly those which were commenced before or after the outbreak of the recent war, were obliged to pay relatively heavy amounts in tax. Many young businesses, however, find themselves in positions of technical difficulty, from which there was no relief for them under the law. Some of those businesses had clearly benefited by the war, though it was impossible to ascertain whether their prices had been reasonable or unreasonable. Others of the young businesses had clearly made profits, apart from war conditions, and would probably have made greater profits if the war had not occurred. 
The war-time profits tax was levied at a high flat rate on the profits in excess of the pre-war standard. Over the whole period of its operation the tax yielded less than £8,000,000, and affected less than 2 per cent, of the businesses in the Commonwealth. Much adverse criticism was directed against the war-time profits tax by various bodies. In the light of experience this measure has been framed in such a manner as to avoid the complications of the war-time profits tax, and to spread the burden of the tax more equitably. 
The bill relates to public companies only. Later, circumstances may render it necessary to extend its scope. The Government had good reasons for confining the measure at present to public companies. Many individuals are carrying on businesses the profits of which depend upon, the personal qualifications of the proprietor. Little or no capital is required in such businesses, and, therefore, it would not be . equitable if they were brought within the scope of a measure which bases liability upon the productivity of capital. A further point which justifies the exclusion of individuals is the fact that a careful analysis has revealed that the total taxes payable by an individual with a substantial taxable income are much greater than those payable by a company with the same taxable income. In fact, it has been demonstrated that the total taxes payable by an individual, with a considerable taxable income, will compare with the amount, payable by a public company employing the same capital and earning the same return even after the tax proposed under this measure has been added to the income taxes payable by the company. The extension of the tax to individuals would add considerably to the complexities of the measure and, consequently, to the cost of administration without very materially increasing the revenue. 
Special provision is contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act for the taxation of private companies. Such companies are liable for ordinary income tax at the rate of 2s. in the £1 and, in addition, for tax on the whole of their undistributed income to the extent of the additional tax that would be payable by the shareholders if the income were distributed. Private companies are, in a sense, incorporated partnerships. Such companies are. already bearing a substantial burden by way of taxation, and the conclusion has been reached that the imposition of tax under this bill, on the profits of private companies, would not he justified at this stage. 
The bill places all public companies, whether they are new or old established, on the same basis. The fact that a company made large profits prior to the war will not affect its liability to tax under this measure. Tax will be payable by a company on the amount by which the taxable profit exceeds the percentage standard, i.e., an amount equal to 8 per cent, of the capital employed. It is considered that a company whose taxable profit exceeds 8 per cent, is in a position to make a special contribution to the war effort without impairing its earning power. 
The tax will be graduated according to the percentage which the amount of a company's taxable profit in excess of the percentage standard bears to the capital employed. If such excess does not exceed 1 per cent, the rate of tax will be 4 per cent, of such excess. If the excess exceeds 1 per cent., but does not exceed  2  per cent, of the capital employed, the first 1 per cent, of the excess will be taxed at 4 per cent., and the remainder at 8 per cent., and so on. The rate increases in steps of 4 per cent, for each 1 per cent, of capital represented by the excess until the maximum rate of 60 per cent, is reached. The maximum is reached when the excess is greater than 14 per cent, of the capital employed, that is, when the taxable profit is in excess of 22 per cent, of the capital employed. This maximum rate will apply to the whole of that portion of the taxable profit which exceeds 22 per cent, of the capital employed. 
One objection to the war-time profits tax was that the heavy flat rate discouraged enterprise and encouraged extravagance. The graduated rate overcomes this objection. A company affected by the measure will be free from tax on profits up to 8 per cent, of capital, and will also be able to retain a substantial part of its profits in excess of S per cent. The economic effect of the tax was carefully considered. The Government is satisfied that the tax will not press harshly on those public companies which show a reasonable return on their capital. In those cases in which the return on capital is high, the tax will, of course, be more severe; but such companies should, in time of war, be expected to contribute the larger proportion of the amount to be raised by a tax of this kind. 
It is realized that in a measure such as this the most complex problem is that of the ascertainment of capital employed by a company. In this connexion an endeavour has been made to remedy the defects of the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act. The ascertainment of capital is of vital importance, because the relation of profits to capital determines the degree to which a company is liable. Briefly, the capital employed might be stated as the amount paid up in money, or other valuable consideration, plus accumulated profits. Accumulated profits will include reserves created out of profits. Every justification exists for treating accumulated profits as part of the capital employed. The paid-up capital represents merely what the shareholders contribute in the first instance, whilst the accumulated profits represent past profits which they have not withdrawn and utilized in personal expenditure, or in other forms of investment. These funds are represented by assets of the company with which it earns its income. They are shareholders' funds which are just as much at stake in the enterprise as is the paid-up capital itself. 
It is possible that some companies have created reserves through the writing up of the value of assets, and have used such reserves in order to enable them to issue bonus shares to their shareholders. If, in the ascertainment of capital employed by such companies, the assets were taken into account at their written-up values, those companies would receive an advantage over other companies. This position was foreseen, and, consequently, provision is contained in the hill for adjustment of the value of assets. If the assets are those in respect of which depreciation is allowed for income tax purposes, the value for purposes of capital will be the depreciated value of such assets as determined for income tax purposes. Any other assets which are purchased by the company will he taken into account at cost. If the assets consist of goodwill, secret processes, copyrights or patents, and have not been purchased, such assets will not be regarded as having any value whatever in the ascertainment of capital. A reserve created out of premiums received on the issue of shares will be treated as capital. 
In the case of life assurance companies which are not wholly mutual, it is proposed to treat .as capital the amount, if any, by which the reserve for liabilities exceeds the amount ascertained as the " calculated liabilities " under the Income Tax Assessment Act. For income tax purposes these companies are allowed a. deduction of 4 per centum of the calculated liabilities. The calculated liabilities are ascertained, in accordance with a method prescribed in the Income Tax Assessment Act, on the basis of the actuarial valuation, and it is not unreasonable to regard the excess of the reserve over the calculated liabilities as part of the capital. The bill /provides for an increase of the capital of an insurance company carrying on insurance 'business, other than life assurance. 
Many companies carrying on insurance business in Australia re-insure risks with companies outside Australia. The income tax law .provides that they shall be allowed no deduction in respect of the premiums they pay over to the absentee companies for this re-insurance. Thus, in effect, their taxable income includes not only their own profits, but also the profits made on their business by the absentee companies with which they re-insure. The Government recognizes that it would be unfair to relate the total taxable profit to the capital of the local company, because the percentage would be inflated by the inclusion in the taxable profit of the re-insurance premiums paid out. It has been decided, therefore, to provide a  prorata  increase of the capital in order to remedy this position. Any capital, the income from which is not taken into account in assessing the income under the Income Tax Assessment Act, will be excluded in ascertaining the amount of capital employed, as will also any capital invested in shareholdings in any other company. 
In the provisions of the bill relating to the ascertainment of the taxable profits, an endeavour has been made to adhere as closely as possible to the taxable income as assessed for income tax purposes. The taxable income will be the basic figure for the ascertainment of the taxable profit, and from that figure will be deducted the Commonwealth income tax payable in respect of the taxable income and so much of any dividends received by the company as is included in such taxable income. The provision for the deduction of dividends received from other companies has been inserted in order to avoid the double taxation which would otherwise arise, and in order to tax company profits once and for all in the hands of the company that makes them without regard to their receipt by other companies in the form of dividends. 
State income tax paid during the accounting period will already have been allowed in the ascertainment of the tax- able income. In this connexion, however, a new company would be at a disadvantage compared with established companies in that in its first accounting period no State income tax would have been paid by the former, although provision would have to be made out of the profits for that tax. The bill contains provision for the deduction, in the case of the first accounting period, which is also the first year of income of the company for the purpose of income tax of any State taxes payable by the company on the income derived during that accounting period. 
It is not necessary to provide specifically for the allowance of losses incurred in prior years, as such losses within the preceding four years are allowed for income tax purposes, and, therefore, would have been taken into account 'before arriving at the taxable profit for the purposes of this measure. 
The Government recognizes that the statutory percentage provided in the bill will not be sufficiently high for some classes of business. . The degree of risk incurred, or some factor peculiar to certain classes of business, may render it essential that a higher statutory percentage be allowed. It is not possible to make provision in a measure of this kind to meet the circumstances of every case. Therefore, provision is made in the bill for the appointment of an independent Board of Referees to consider cases in which it is claimed that, owing to some unavoidable condition associated with a particular class of business, it is just that a higher statutory percentage be prescribed in respect of that class of business. It is also proposed to empower the Board to deal with applications for a higher statutory percentage  in cases in which the taxable profit is rendered abnormally large by the inclusion therein of profit which has relation to a period greater than the accounting period. The board of referees will also have authority to determine the amount of capital employed in those cases in which it is claimed that the capital, as ascertained in accordance with the act, does not represent the true capital. 
The bill provides for the averaging of the taxable profits of the accounting period, and of the four immediately preceding accounting periods in the case.0 a company which is a primary producer,  for the purpose of determining the rate of tax payable by such a company. This principle is consistent with that contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act. The income of a primary producer fluctuates according to seasonal conditions and it would not be fair to tax a company carrying on that class of business on the excess profits of a good year following several years of drought, at the rate of tax attributable to the actual taxable profit of that year. If the average taxable profit is not greater than 8 per cent. of the capital employed, no tax will be payable. If the average is greater than 8 per cent., the amount by which the actual taxable profit of the accounting period exceeds the percentage standard it will be taxed at the rate applicable to the excess of the average taxable profit. 
A company, the taxable profit of which includes a net premium in respect of a lease, may elect to have the rate of tax determinedby reference to a deemed taxable profit. This will represent an amount which would be the taxable profit if the net premium were spread over the term of the lease. The principle is similar to that contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act, which provides for the ascertainment of the rate of tax by reference to a notional income. 
The bill contains provision under which a holding company may elect to have its subsidiaries treated as branches of the holding company. The election is irrevocable without the consent of the Commissioner. If an election be not made, the taxable profits of each subsidiary company will Be separately assessed. In the event of a holding company, which has elected to have its subsidiaries treated as branches, failing to pay the tax assessed within the time prescribed, or within such further time as the Commissioner may allow, the election may be treated as void, and in that event a separate assessment will be made in respect of each subsidiary. 
A feature of the proposed tax is that it will be linked as closely as possible with Commonwealth income tax. Companies will not, except in special cases, be called upon to furnish additional returns as returns furnished by them for income tax purposes will contain most of the information required for the purposes of this measure. In view of this, the delays in assessment which occurred under the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act will be obviated, and the administration of the measure will be facilitated. In any case where a company, liable for tax under this measure, pays its preference shareholders a dividend ata rate in excess of the statutory percentage i.t may deduct from the dividend the amount of tax attributable to the excess. This provision will prevent the whole burden of the tax falling on the funds available for ordinary shareholders in such cases. 
Any legislation imposing taxes on income should have regard to ability to pay. It is considered that this principle is embodied in the proposed measure. It is also considered that the bill will not have any serious effect upon dividends. Any form of tax levied upon companies will, of course, diminish the distributable pool of profits. A careful analysis indicates that the majority of investors in shareholdings have their interests in what might be termed safe investment companies, which, as a general rule, do not make profits in excess of 8 per cent. of their capital. In those cases where dividends were paid at a particularly high rate, the tax will, no doubt, result in a reduced, but still high, rate of dividend being paid in future. 
These remarks will serve to give a general outline of the intention and scope of the bill. It is not proposed to deal with further details of the measure art this stage, as these may be considered in committee. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a  second  time. 
In introducing this bill, I warn honorable senators at the outset that a heavy increase of income tax is proposed. The necessity for a large increase is obvious. We are at war with a ruthless enemy whose avowed objects are the destruction of democracy, and the imposition of a form of government utterly repugnant to a free people. We are providing for our defence against this menace and have now to meet the huge expenditure involved. Financing a war, especially one of the magnitude of the present conflict, is a difficult problem. Sound finance is as important as adequate supplies of armaments, and in any programme of sound finance taxation must figure largely. 
If honorable senators approve the Government's proposals to prosecute the war with the utmost energy, they will, I am sure, support its taxation proposals. Throughout the Empire taxation, particularly income tax, has been greatly increased since the outbreak of war. The already heavy burden on the British taxpayer has been weighted still further by raising the standard rate to Ss. 6d. in the £1, by the extension of the sur- tax to lower incomes and by the reduction of personal allowances. In New Zealand the people have submitted to a new scale of severe basic rates, a sur-tax of 15 per cent., and a flat levy of ls. in the £1 on the gross amount of all incomes. 
Under this bill a greatly increased burden will be placed on the wealthy sections of the community. That is as it should be, but when honorable senators have studied the figures I believe that they will agree that additional revenue must be obtained from other sections. 
Personal incomes available for taxation amount to approximately £745,000,000, but of that total only about £85,000,000, or 11 per cent., represents incomes of more than £1,000 annually. Incomes of from £400 to £1,000 amount to £143,000,000, or 19 per cent., whilst those less than £400 total £517,000,000, or 70 per cent, of the total. 
State taxation, which makes big inroads into high incomes, varies in the different States, but the limit of Commonwealth taxation on high incomes is governed by Hie rate in the State in which the highest tax is imposed. 
In the interests of sound finance additional revenue must be raised by means of income taxes. The whole of the amount required cannot be collected from persons already paying income tax without placing an intolerable burden upon them. Therefore, the Government has been forced to lower the statutory exemption which will affect a great many persons who for the first time will be brought within the taxable field. 
Hitherto incomes of less than £400 a year have contributed about £100,000 annually. Based on the rates enacted in May last it is expected that that amount will be increased to about £200,000, and largely as a result of the widening of the field, those incomes will now be asked to contribute £2,500,000. That amount, however, will be spread over a very wide field. The new rates are designed to produce £35,000,000, of which £20,000,000 will come from incomes over £1,000. That figure should be compared with £6,200,000 under the 1939-40 scale, and £9,800,000 .under the present scale. The contributions of those whose incomes are between £400 and £1,000 will .be raised from £1,300,000 and £2,000,000 to £8,000,000 under the proposed rates. The burden on salary and wage-earners will be eased considerably by a scheme of payment at the source" which is being introduced. Tables have been circulated showing the taxes payable on specified incomes in Australia and in New Zealand. It will he noticed that, generally speaking, the New Zealand taxpayer has to pay more than the Australian taxpayer.  For  example a taxpayer in New Zealand with a dependent wife and one child, with an earned income of £300, pays £30. Whereas i(n Australia under the new scale, a similar person will not be liable to pay Commonwealth income tax, and will pay in States taxes about £11. On an income of £350 a taxpayer in New Zealand pays £42; whereas in Australia a person with similar responsibilities will pay from £12 to £20. 
I now turn to consider the various clauses and schedules of the hill, taking first the provisions relating to the personal exertion rates. 
Sub-clause 1 of clause 6, as amplified by the first schedule, provides for a scale of rates of tax on personal exertion income. These rates represent a large increase on the rates enacted in May last. The Government does not propose to remove from the taxpayer the benefit of the concessional deductions for dependants, insurance, medical expenses and so on. In fact, the field of concessional deductions has been widened to allow a deduction of £50 in the case of a dependent mother wholly maintained by the taxpayer. Consequently, the taxpayer will not feel the full weight of the minimum rate until the income reaches a fairly high level. If, for instance, he be a married man with one child, that level is somewhat above £500 ; if he be a single man without dependants, it is not less than £400. 
The proposed scale rises steeply and reaches 5s. in the £1 on a taxable income of £1,500. The excess over that amount will be taxed at a flat rate of 10s. in the £1. It is necessary to reduce the rate of increase as incomes rise in order that the tax shall not reach 20s. in the £1. 
At the new rates, taxpayers in the highest-taxed .State will pay amounts of 
Commonwealth tax roughly comparable with their State taxes, except in the lowest and highest ranges, where the State taxes are substantially higher than the Commonwealth. In most cases residents of the lowest-taxed States will find that their Commonwealth tax is considerably greater than their State tax. 
The rates of tax on property income are provided in sub-clause 2 of clause 6 and the second schedule to the bill. The minimum rate applies to taxable incomes up to £400, beyond which point the rate so increases as to reach 5s. in the £1 at £1,200. The excess of the taxable income over £1,200 is subjected to a flat rate of 10s. in the £1. 
The loading of the property rates when compared with the personal exertion rates remains substantial until the high incomes are reached. The difference then diminishes as incomes rise. When the rates for 1940-41 were adopted, it was recognized that in the higher personal exertion ranges, there was an increasing element of property, and for that reason, the two scales were tapered at the top. The same principle has been observed here. In fact, the proposed property scale has been designed on the same general principles as in the scale adopted in May. The personal exertion scale has first been determined on the basis of ability to pay, and the property rate has been derived from itby increasing by 25 per cent. the rates up to £1,200. 
The rates applicable to companies are contained in sub-clause 8 of clause 6, clause 7, and the seventh schedule. In May last a tax similar to the longestablished tax on the undistributed profits of private companies was imposed on the undistributed profits of public companies. The provisions relating to that tax have not yet been applied. The rate of tax prescribed was1s., but the increase of individual rates has made an increase of that rate inevitable. It will be appreciated that if the shareholder were taxed at a high rate and the company at a relatively low rate, the shareholder might be tempted to avoid tax by the simple expedient of leaving his profits in the company. The hill, therefore, provides for a rate of 2s. in the £1 on the undistributed profits of public companies. 
The committee which was appointed to discuss the war-time company tax recommended - 
that private companies be removed from the scope of the war-time company tax; 
that a private company be taxed at individual rates on 100 per cent. of its undistributed profits instead of 75 per cent. as at present; and 
that public companies be required to pay either the war-time company tax or a super-tax of ls. in the £1 on the excess of its taxable income over £5,000, whichever is the greater. 
<para pgwide="yes">The machinery for carrying out these proposals is provided in the War-time (Company) Tax Assessment Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Bill, and this bill, clause 7 of which imposes the supertax. All companies, except private companies and certain other companies, which are specified in the War-time (Company)TaxAssessmentBill,willbe subjecttoasuper-taxof1s.inthe£1on theirtaxableincomeinexcessof£5,000. Whereacompanyisalsoliabletowar- timecompanytaxarebatewillbe allowedintheassessmentofanamount equaltothesuper-taxorthewar-time companytax,whicheveristhelower. Smallcompanieswillbeprotectedfrom theweightofthesuper-taxbyan exemptionof£5,000. 
Sub-clause 3 of clause 6 and the third schedule of the bill provide the rates to be applied when taxpayers derive taxable income from personal exertion and from property. In these cases the rate of tax on the separate amounts of each class of taxable income is ascertained as if the total income were derived wholly from personal exertion and wholly from property respectively. The effect of the application of this sub-clause is that the taxpayer pays tax on his taxable income from personal exertion and property at the rate attributable to his total taxable income. If the total composite income of a taxpayer be £5,000, made up of £3,000 personal exertion income and £2,000 property income, the rate applied to both the £3,000 and the £2,000 is the rate applicable to the £5,000. 
Sub-clause 4 of clause 6 and the fourth schedule will operate when the averaging  provisions of the assessment act are applied. Those provisions are limited to the assessments of primary producers. In order to describe briefly the working of the averaging system, I point out that the rate of tax on the taxpayer's taxable income is ascertained by averaging his taxable income over the year of income and the four preceding years. The rate that is attributable to the amount of the taxpayer's average income over the fiveyear period is the rate of tax prescribed to he paid by a taxpayer on  hi3  taxable income of the year of income. 
In sub-clause 5 of clause 6 and the fifth schedule an equitable basis is provided for the calculation of the tax payable by a taxpayer who receives a premium on the grant or assignment of a lease. These lease premiums as income are in the nature of commuted rent, and, for that reason, the premiums are included in the taxable field by special provisions of the assessment act. The full amount of the premium is, however, taxed as income of the year in which it is received and it will be readily appreciated by honorable senators that the graduated rate of tax would cause a taxpayer to pay a greater amount of tax than he would be called upon to pay if he received the amount of the lease premium in the form of rent spread over the term of the lease. This inequity is removed as far as possible by the assessment act, which provides for the premium to be taxed at the rate which would be payable on a notional income ascertained by dividing the lease premium by one-half of the number of years in the term of the lease. Any taxable income which may be derived by the taxpayer in addition to the lease premiums is aggregated with the lease notional income to determine the rate of tax payable on his total taxable income. 
Sub-clause 6 of clause 6 provides for a minimum tax of 10s., which has been the minimum tax for many years. Sub-clause 7 of clause 6 and the sixth schedule prescribe the rate of tax payable by trustees in those  case3  where, under the provisions of the assessment act, the trustee is assessed on the whole or portion of the income of a trust estate. A provision of this kind is necessary to meet the case where a trustee of a trust estate is a company. Otherwise the rate of tax applied to the taxable income derived by the trust estate would be the company rate instead of the graduated rate payable by an individual. 
Sub-clause 2 of clause 7 empowers the Commissioner of Taxation to apply the rates of tax as set out in the bill in those cases where it becomes necessary, for example, in the case of persons departing overseas, to make assessments for the succeeding financial year before the Income Tax Bill prescribing the rates of tax for the financial year 1941-42 is passed by Parliament. 
It is expected that new rates of tax upon individuals will yield £30,500,000 a year, of which about £23,500,000 should be collected in the current financial year. To this is to be added £1,700,000 to be obtained by the abolition of the company rebate. The revenue from companies, which is to be derived at the 2s. flat rate, is estimated at £8,800,000 for the full year, of which £7,800,000 should be collected in the current financial year. The additional tax to be imposed on undistributed profits will yield £2,400,000 revenue in a full year, of which £2,000,000 should be collected in 1940-41. The super-tax on company income has been estimated to yield £3,200,000 in a full year assessment, of which £2,700,000 should be collected in 1940-41. 
Honorable senators will agree that the new rates are severe, but they will also agree that they are no more severe than the circumstances demand. The Government has not failed to recognize its responsibilities. The people will not fail to recognize theirs. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a measure designed to give greater protection to Commonwealth securities. The Treasury Bills Act, as  it now stands, provides penalties for forging or uttering these securities, or being in possession of false forms, but there is some doubt as to whether the provision in that act is wide enough to prevent the reproduction of certain Commonwealth securities for the purposes of advertisement, or for their unauthorized publication in various ways. 
The law makes it an offence for any person to make or have in his possession, without the authority of the Treasurer, any copy of an Australian note, or any writing, engraving or print, resembling an Australian note.  defacement,  disfigurement and use of Australian notes in connexion with advertisements are also prohibited. Similar protection should also be afforded to other securities such as treasury-bills, treasury-bonds, and war savings certificates, which are negotiable bearer securities. This bill is drawn to give that protection by incorporating in the Treasury Bills Act provisions similar to those now existing in the Commonwealth Bank Act in respect of Australian notes. 
Through the issue of war savings certificates, Commonwealth securities are becoming very widely known, and adequate steps ought to be taken to safeguard these securities, in the interests of the Commonwealth and of the holders. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to accede to a request by the wine industry that wine be exempt from sales tax. It was proposed to impose on wine sales tax which would yield about £100,000 a year, but the industry suggested an alternative method by which that amount of money could be raised. Under the new proposal, which I shall explain, the £100,000 will be paid by the industry in a lump sum. 
For some years the wine industry has been providing the money from which the bounty on exported wine has been paid. The  excise  duty on spirit for fortifying wine is 6s. 6d. a proof gallon, out of which 5s. a proof gallon is paid into the Wine Export Encouragement Account established under the Wine Export Bounty Act 1939. It is from that fund that bounty is paid. The industry therefore, itself provides its own bounty. The bounty paid in 1939-40 amounted to £146,591. It is estimated that in the year ended the 30th June, 1941, the amount of bounty paid will total only £65,000. Based on the domestic consumption for the year ended the 30th June, 1940, the amount which will be paid into the trust account for the year ended 30th June, 1941, will approximate £2(20,000. 
It was estimated that the now abandoned sales tax on wine would have yielded about £100,000. Therefore, if the amount of excise on fortifying spirit be halved sufficient money should be available for the payment of the bounty. The balance would be sufficient to compensate for the remission of the sales tax on wine. 
It 'will be realized that this arrangement must be more or . less temporary, because, when shipping becomes available to enable the renewal of the export of wine the increased payments of bounty will necessitate the provision of the required revenue by other means. 
The bill will relieve the wine industry, and, at the same time, return a little over £100,000 in revenue. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
.- I was not in the chamber last night when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  spoke on the adjournment concerning statements alleged to have been made at the Annual Federal Congress of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, held in Canberra, on the 21st November last, but I have since had an opportunity to peruse the  Hansard  proof of his remarks. After reading his speech three times, I was astounded at some of his statements. I am not concerned with what  Mr. Robb  did, or did not, say at that conference. One, or even two swallows, do not make a summer. What I am concerned about is the inference to he drawn from the honorable senator's remarks, namely, that this great body of returned soldiers, over 100,000 strong - the most democratic and the largest non-class organization in Australia - is heading for Fascism.  Senator Collings  should apologize to the members of that organization. Approximately 68 per cent, of the Australian Imperial Force were tradesmen and labourers. They, with thousands in 
Other  callings, fought for democracy, and thousands of their sons are doing the same to-day. The honorable senator should know that there is a corps of diggers known as the Returned Soldiers League Home Defence Volunteer Corps, officially recognized as part of this nation's home defence system. Does he refer to this corps when he alludes to men meeting in some secret place and drilling in the dark? Perhaps he does, but I know of no unofficial body of men in Victoria engaged in learning the art of war. The honorable senator's intelligence service must be all astray, judging by his reference to members of rifle clubs wearing arm badges and carrying out voluntarily rifle practice. He must know that rifle clubs are also a part of Australia's home defence. My only regret is that they are not used more extensively in instructing thousands of young men in the use of the rifle. It is a great pity that the Leader of the Opposition makes such glaring mistakes; instead he should be supporting me in my endeavours to have more rifles, Bren guns and machine guns made available to these two patriotic reserve branches of our home defence forces. Should there exist a body of citizens secretly organized on Fascist principles I shall do all in my power to assist him in stamping it out. 
I rise to reply briefly to  Senator Brand.  1 am responsible only for what I said ; I am not responsible for something which the honorable senator thinks I intended. I did not mention the Returned Soldiers League. I mentioned  Mr. Robb  and  Mr. Sharland,  and the delegates present at the Canberra conference, and referred to what they said; that is all. 
I do not believe for one moment that the statements made by those gentlemen represent the views of returned soldiers as a body. 
The truth hurts; and it is very obvious that as the result of what I said last night something must now be read into my statements and published in order that I be made to suffer for something I did not say. 
What I said was true. There is a clamour now to arm these people. Whether they are willing to do the dirty work I referred to I do not know. At the Canberra conference a statement was made that this Parliament must be made to do the will of the returned soldiers. I know that that  statement will not be endorsed by nine out of ten members of the league. 
I did not think for one moment that any one would draw the inference from my statement which the honorable senator draws from it. 
Those gentlemen spoke as delegates to a conference of the league. 
They represented returned soldiers at that conference. Last night I was talking under high pressure. I have no intention of introducing any heat into what I have to say on this occasion. I trust, therefore, that Ministers will remain calm. All I wish to say is that to-day several returned soldiers have come to me and said, "  Senator, do  not imagine that those men at that conference were talking for us". I replied, "I don't; I know you fellows, and I know that they were not talking for you ". However, I repeat that there is a section in the community, including many like Eric Campbell, whose names I shall not mention now for the same reason that I refused to mention them last night. I have also been interviewed by press representatives on the matter, and I did not lead them to believe that returned soldiers are behind this move. I say that they are not. However, I say that such a move is being made, and that the heads of big business in Sydney and Melbourne are behind it. 
Because if I mentioned their names I should make it easy for them to ascertain who the individuals were who supplied me with my information, and those individuals would be immediately discharged from their employment. I am not so silly as that. I do not intend to go over the ground I covered last night. I did not say anything of the kind which  Senator Brand  attributes to me, and over which the Minister .for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  and the Assistant Minister  (Senator Collett)  are losing their heads. 
Any statements which I made last night having reference to returned soldiers or their organizations are on record. I said that  Mr. Sharland  said - 
We will have to tell them (meaning members of this Parliament) that, unless they do it, we ourselves will take over the Government. 
That statement was made by a delegate at the conference. 
And he was a delegate allegedly representing the opinion of returned soldiers at that conference. 
I did not. I have become used to lying misrepresentation. I shall not retract any statement I made last night. Honorable senators opposite can go outside and say what they like about me, but they will not close my mouth while I have life in me. They cannot bulldoze me as these delegates at that conference in Canberra attempted to bulldoze this Parliament.! Anything which honorable senators opposite say in extenuation of such libellous and subversive statements will not have any effect upon me. Any one who says that I reflected upon the returned soldiers will be a liar. Let that, together with the statement just made by  Senator Brand  and the disorderly interjections of Ministers be recorded in  Hansard.  I am prepared to meet returned soldiers' organizations anywhere. I shall do so with the greatest of pleasure. I shall repeat to them every word I said last night, and I have no doubt that I shall obtain their endorsement of what I said. 
I shall repeat what I said last night to returned soldiers' organizations anywhere, and tell them that I do not believe that they are behind this sort of thing; and I shall obtain their endorsement for what I say. The desire to cover up this incident and blacken me convinces me more than ever that the move to which I referred is afoot. 
I ask the Government to give sympathetic consideration to the case of  Mrs. Florence  M. Simmons, of 12 'Sixth-street, Parkdale, .S.ll, Victoria, the widow of John James Simmons, formerly No. 1975, private, 57th Battalion, and No. V81262, lance-corporal, 12th Garrison Battalion. The late  Mr. Simmons  died while he was a member of the garrison battalion, the cause of his death being hardening of the arteries. He served in the 57th Battalion, and contracted asthma while in France. He was invalided home in 1918, and was granted a pension on his discharge.  His  repatriation medical report shows that his asthma did not improve, and that his heart was affected.  Mrs. Simmons  was granted a pension of 4s. 6d. a week, and, after the death of her husband, she made an application for an increase. On this being refused she appealed, but her appeal was not successful. I submitted the matter to the Minister assisting the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  who, in the course of his reply to my communication, wrote - 
Tlie tribunal is an independent authority appointed by the Government at the request of returned men themselves for the purpose of determining appeals in respect of disabilities and deaths which had been rejected as not due to war service. It is not subject to ministerial direction, consequently I cannot interfere with any of its decisions. 

 Mrs. Simmons has two children, who are not earning enough to keep themselves. The husband was accepted for military service, and I assume that he passed a medical examination. I urge the Government to give sympathetic consideration to this case which is similar to others in which the widows have passed the age at which they can readily obtain employment. It must be agreed that the pension paid to  Mrs. Simmons  is inadequate. She has at least a moral claim against the Government. Anything that the Government is prepared to do for her would be greatly appreciated, and I am sure that its action would be endorsed by the, community. 
, - A short time ago I placed on the noticepaper a question addressed to the Minister  (Senator McBride)  who represents the Minister for Commerce in this chamber, relating to the price of superphosphate, but up to the present I have been unable to obtain a reply. Three or four months ago I endeavoured to ascertain how much money had been expended in each State in the manufacture of armaments and munitions, and I was promised an answer but I have not yet received it. I am afraid that that may be my experience regarding my question about superphosphate, which was as follows: - 
Is it a fact that the price of superphosphate in Tasmania has risen 20s. per ton since the outbreak of war, in addition to which the Government has discontinued the fertilizer subsidy of 10s. per ton? 
Is it a fact that in New Zealand the Government has agreed to pay any increase of price above the pre-war price of £3 10s. per ton out of Consolidated Revenue? 
Will the Government consider the advisability of re-introducing the subsidy to assist farmers to meet the increased price? 
I also desire to know whether the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  has found out whether a conference has taken place in Melbourne between representatives of the Tasmanian Magnesium Company and of the Commerce Department. The Minister told me this week that, if such a conference had not been held, he would arrange for one on a suitable date. 
The case mentioned by  Senator Cameron  is one of a number in which widows have lost their husbands from causes not attributable to war services. The Repatriation Act does not contain provisions for affording relief which the honorable senator rightly states is needed in the case mentioned by him. A number of such claims have been considered by the Government, and that referred to by the honorable senator will be taken into consideration with others, with a view to seeing whether means can be devised to supplement the small pension now received. 
SenatorFOLL(... for the Interior)..Can assure  Senator Aylett  that no discourtesy is intended by the failure to supply him .with answers to his questions immediately. Questions often entail a good deal of research. I shall draw the attention of the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  to the honorable member's question with respect to the price of fertilizers, and endeavour to furnish him with an answer before the Senate rises to-morrow. In any case, replies to all the questions mentioned will be obtained as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister for the Interior give consideration to the practicability of converting the Hotel Canberra, . which is a building owned by the Government, into offices, and to the construction of a modern hotel to replace the Hotel Canberra? 
SenatorFOLL: - The suggestionhas a good deal to commend it. I think that it is generally recognized that the layout of the Hotel Canberra is not conducive to economical management; but I do not think that the Governmentwould be prepared to undertake the construction of a" new hotel. 
 I did not suggest that. I meant that the work should be undertakenby private enterprise. 
I shall give the matter consideration. The present lessee of the Hotel Canberra has a fairly long lease of the building. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the instalments of income tax which the Government proposes to collect between the 1st January and the 30th June, 1941, relate to the financial year 1939-40. or to the year 1940-41? 
The instalments relate to assessments for 1940-41, which are based on income earned during the 1939-40 period. 
I do not propose to attempt to make anything approaching a second-reading speech on this measure. I realize how difficult it is to regulate the proceedings of Parliament in order that the last-minute rush at the conclusion of a session or period of a. session may be avoided, but I protest, as I have done on many previous occasions, against these complicated taxation measures being brought before this chamber in this way, which prevents honorable senators from examining them. It maybe said that if members of the Opposition in the House of Representatives did not talk so much the Senate would get these measures earlier; but all we of the Opposition can do in this Parliament is talk; the Government is the only authority with power to act. The practice of rushing legislation through Parliament is improper, but I realize (hat even should we decide to sit next week, we should, in the concluding stages, still have insufficient time to discuss it. Parliament should have assembled a. month earlier, and got on with its job. There is no reason why the income tax proposals should not have been tabled weeks ago. I realize that the Opposition in the House of Representatives took certain action which resulted in improvements being in serted in some bills for which Ave are grateful. I think that I can claim to be no less capable than the least brilliant of honorable senators opposite. I have not had an opportunity to examine the full purport of these measures. I have read again this morning the second-reading speeches delivered by the Minister, but I am not now in a better position to speak intelligently on these proposals than I was yesterday. This measure and those to follow are highly complicated, and I do not think that even the Minister understands them. He is not expected to; he must rely on the advice of experts in the Taxation Department who understand them. As this period of the session will terminate to-day we cannot give these measures the intelligent consideration they deserve. We are being paid to do a job on behalf of the people, but I feel that in the circumstances I am forced to do that job more or less indifferently. 
Like my colleague,  Senator Brown,  and others, I believe that income tax is the fairest method to obtain revenue. I do not agree with the contention held by some that income taxation is never popular; it is a direct- tax and we know what we have to pay. As citizens of the Commonwealth, we should be prepared to do our best in the difficult times through which we are now passing, and we should pay our taxes cheerfully, especially when they are levied directly. I do, however, object to indirect taxation, such as the sales tax, because it gives traders an opportunity to impose upon the people, and will cause unemployment. In order to arrive at the income tax rates to be imposed, the Government must first ascertain the amount of revenue required; then the taxation experts are asked to submit what they consider to be the best method by which the revenue can be obtained. The Government should consider, not only the amount to be collected from taxpayers, but also the amount they will have left; that is what really matters if equality of sacrifice is to be achieved. It is not an act of heroism for a wealthy man to sit down and write a cheque for the Taxation Commissioner for a large sum of money. If his income be £6,000 a. year a tax of £3,000 would not affect him. 
It must be borne in mind that in the imposition of taxes there is a limit beyond which the Government cannot go. Nearly all taxes tend, in the final analysis, to bear most harshly on those members of the community who have the lowest incomes. We should realize that taxes, almost without exception, are passed on. Even members of parliament indirectly pass their taxes on to others. On account of the heavy financial burden to be borne by us, we shall have to practise certain economies by doing without some of the things to which we have become accustomed. The final effect of the economies to be practised by me and other legislators may be that some shop assistant will be dismissed from his employment, or that some factory will go out of business or partially close down. There is no process by which Australia can starve its way to prosperity. 
The original proposal to reduce  the  income tax exemption figure from £250 to £150 was cruel and drastic. I am delighted that, as the result of collaboration and the display of a spirit of sweet reasonableness, it was possible, through the Advisory War Council, to have the proposal reconsidered. Although the Opposition did not obtain all that it desired, it realizes that what it did secure will be of great value to persons on the lower ranges of income. Members of my party would have preferred the statutory exemption to have been left at £250. The Government would not have been seriously embarrassed had it allowed the exemption to remain as it was, because the consequent shortage of revenue could Iia ve been made up readily by a slight increase of tax on the higher incomes. 
This budget undoubtedly affects the lower and middle classes more severely than it does persons in receipt of the larger incomes. The taxes being imposed in Australia are not nearly so drastic as those in operation in other parts of the Empire. In Great Britain, for instance, there was no hesitation in taking the whole of the war-time profits. No argument is heard in the British Parliament as to whether a tax of 15s. or 17s. 6d. in the £1 is too drastic. In the event of an increase of profits beyond those obtained on a certain date, the tax is 100 per cent. 
The Opposition is grateful that the Government saw fit to alter the definition of a single man, so that a man with a dependent mother will now be able to obtain a concession which he could not get previously. I, in common with other members of the Opposition, realize that the demand for a huge war expenditure is imperative, and, in no circumstances, shall we deny the Government any revenue it needs to carry on the war effort. We may criticize the incidence of taxation, or we may claim that certain expenditure is not wise, but, in -view of the urgent problems confronting the Government, we shall help it to raise the requisite revenue. 
1 10:55]. - I am not in agreement with everything that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has said. I claim that the Government should have acceded to the request made to it to leave the statutory exemption at. £250. The raising of the amount from £150 to £200 was due to representations made by supporters of the Government, who forced the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  to descend from his high horse and make a concession. Under the Government's proposals, undue hardship will be placed on the members of the community who are on the lower rungs of the social ladder, whilst it will be found that there are sufficient loopholes in the income tax legislation to enable the wealthy .to escape some of the tax. The workers in industry should have been shown greater consideration than they have received. The potential parents, who are  trying to  save sufficient money to enable them to purchase homes, or who have taken up shares in co-operative building societies, should not- be taxed so heavily as they will be under the Government's proposals. The members of the working class are giving their all in the war effort and will put their last ounce of strength into it. They have done it before, and they will do it again. Many who have obtained jobs as the result of war expenditure are now to be called upon to make a substantial contribution to the revenue of the Commonwealth. A more equitable scheme than has been propounded by the Government should have  been introduced. The Government should have kept the statutory exemption at £250. I am not inclined to imagine that the working classes will be particularly pleased that the Government has been given credit for having generously raised the exemption from £150 to £200. It did not do so; instead, it reduced the statutory exemption from £250 to £150. The people will mot appreciate that action.  The  Government may consider that it has done a good, job, but thousands of taxpayers believe that it lias taxed them to the limit, both directly and indirectly, in order to place them in the position in which it wishes to keep them. 
This bill would not have been necessary had the Government accepted the advice which I have given to it on numerous occasions. I claim to have proved 'beyond all doubt that the war could be fought without increasing taxation, or materially adding to the national debt. I 'have supplied incontrovertible evidence that that could ,be done. For my pains I have been .both praised and condemned. Some honorable senators w&gt;ho have not been convinced by my arguments have credited me with having at least honesty of purpose. My leader has pointed out that every increase of taxation lowers the standard of living. A friend has written to me saying that this increased taxation will mean that he will be unable to buy a suit this Christmas. The worker whose wages will be commandeered each week will not have enough left to buy a new suit. I have shown that wars 'have been run on credit. A royal commission appointed by the Commonwealth Government reported that that could be done in Australia. The great American, Lincoln, defied the bankers and issued his own currency. I have yet to find a Government supporter who is willing to controvert my arguments. 
It was not the duty of the commission to tell the Government what it ought to do. The commission showed what could be done, and left the decision to the Government.  Senator A.  J, McLachlan told us a few days ago about a Chinese, named Wang, who adopted unorthodox methods in his day. But Wang came to a tragic end. Evidently, even in 56 B.C. there were some unorthodox people. Lincoln, who financed a war by defying the bankers, came to an untimely end, and, it is generally believed that the financiers were responsible for his death. I am afraid that some day I shall be found with a hole in my head. I realize that I am up against the conservative mind. I had some hopes that  Senator Spicer,  our newest colleague in this chamber, would have a refilling influence on men who have sat in this cham'ber for many years. I gave to him a pamphlet entitled  Victory without Debt  which, on a previous occasion was referred to as  Victory without Death.  The conservative mind is always upset when new ideas are advanced. I had hoped to return to my home for -Christmas consoled by the thought that I had influenced some members of this Parliament; but I have no evidence that I have converted any one. I assure the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  that if he charges £1 16s. a week to residents of Barton House, he will add to his troubles. 
The trouble is that that currency is not in circulation. When it is in circulation, a man will find it easy to pay his board. If the Government continues to tax the people's money, the landlords will have to go short. Recently the Minister for the Interior said : "I do not know what  Senator Darcey  would have done without the Commonwealth Bank? " I replied, "It is a pity that this Government does not realize what can be done with the Commonwealth Bank". Yesterday, I asked whether the Commonwealth Bank had charged interest on the £750,000 which it had lent to the Government, and I was informed that it had charged interest at 3J per cent. When will the Government learn sense in regard to finance? The Commonwealth Bank belongs to the people, and its profits go to the nation. That being so, why charge interest which goes back to the nation in the form of profits? 
Why should I borrow £1 on Monday and repay myself 25s. on Friday? That is what the Government is doing. There is no need for it.  Mr. Graham  Towers, of the Canadian Central Bank, was once asked whether a government bank could lend money to a government free of interest, and he replied, " Yes ". He added that there would be no need to pay back the capital, because the increased prosperity of the nation would mean that the money would be repaid to the government indirectly. Already this country has paid £3,000,000 in interest on money borrowed since the war started. I have commented from time to time on our huge interest bill, which already is about £1,000,000 a week. The people of Great Britain are called upon to pay £200,000,000 a year as interest on money borrowed during the last war. How can Australia, with a population of about 7,000,000 people, carry this huge burden of interest? Unless a different policy be inaugurated there must be repudiation. Why not save that disgrace by utilizing the national credit? I recently produced a balance-sheet which proved1 that we have to the credit of the nation at least £1,000,000,000 upon -which we could draw to finance the war. That was the first time in the history of Australia that a truly national balance-sheet was presented. The Prime Minister assured us some time ago that he was prepared to use the credit of the nation, but, so far, he has not done so. The reason is that he is here to look after the interests of the private banking institutions. 
Why does not the right honorable gentleman use the credit of the nation, as he promised to do? The reason is that he places the interests of the money-lenders before the interests of the taxpayers. We were told recently that £6,000,000 had immediately been subscribed towards the new loan. On other occasions I have shown how that is done, and also how the money is ultimately held in the banking system. Of the amounts subscribed towards the various loans which have been floated, 80 per cent, is held by the banks. I have already told the Senate how the money subscribed by the Australian Mutual Provident Society is provided; the manager of the society merely instructs his banker to apply for bonds. I register my emphatic protest against the inefficiency of a government which is prepared to pay 3f per cent, for money which could be obtained free of interest through the Commonwealth Bank. 
.- I have made it a rule that, if I support a decision, I shall stand by it to the end. A compromise has been effected in regard to the budget, the outstanding weakness of which is that the income tax exemption has been lowered. Like every other honorable senator, I am aware that the taxing of low incomes is a calamitous proceeding; but I realize also that this nation is facing the crisis of its life. I could speak at some length to prove that the  sale3  tax will ultimately come out of the pockets of the workers. I could show that, notwithstanding the allegedly high wages earned by the workers, many of them are only employed intermittently. 
As a member of the Labour party and an Australian I am prepared to pay my share of the cost of this war. Bills are preferable to bombs. No one has greater realization than I of what the winning or losing of .this war will mean to this country. The cost of this war will rise in proportion to its duration. When the time comes for the budget for 1941-42 to be presented to Parliament whoever is then Treasurer will have had to devise means to raise even more revenue than is contemplated in the budget for this year. The capacity of the workers to pay taxes will be reduced by the taxation measures now before Parliament. The only assistance that I can offer is a suggestion that during the next twelve months the Government and its advisers should study closely the financial policy of the Labour party. Some members of this Parliament ask what the people outside are saying about the increased taxes. The electors had the opportunity in 1934, in 1937, and in 1940 to put into power in this Parliament a party which would give effect to at least a part of the policy which  Senator Darcey  expounds so frequently. Reimbursement of the cost of defence by means of taxes is provided for in Labour's platform. 
I have not had the time to study the details of the Income Tax Bill, except as it affects me. My feelings were not eased by a realization that I shall still have to pay State taxes. The exigencies of war will force the abolition of State Parliaments, or, at least, the concentration of the taxing power in the hands of the Commonwealth Government. The speech on the Income Tax Assessment Bill delivered yesterday in the House of Representatives by the right honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  is an important chapter in the history of our income tax legislation and I look forward with keen anticipation to the day when the policy enunciated by him will some into operation. When that day arrives the Commonwealth Government will be able to avoid some of the more unpleasant features of its present taxation proposals. In time of war high taxation is inescapable. Twelve months hence the rates of taxes will be even higher than they are in this financial year. As  Senator Darcey  has often emphasized, in the last years of peace, Australia's annual interest commitment amounted to £45,000,000 per annum or £180,000 a day. That commitment will rise to £60,000,000 per annum or more before the war ends. I hope that the Government has in mind a solution of the problem of how such a huge commitment can be met. Our export trade in many commodities is already at a standstill; we cannot ship our fruits and wines, and it is only with tremendous difficulty that we can ship part of our surplus stocks of grain. Methods considered to be unorthodox will be forced on the Government. I do not admit the economy of blowing millions of pounds worth of munitions into the air. I could talk even more loudly than  Senator Amour  about credit, but it would not get me anywhere, because I, like the honorable senator, am a member of a minority party. So long as the people refrain from giving the Labour party control of this Parliament we cannot give effect to our policy. Meanwhile, the job of fighting this war must go on and I refuse to do anything which would hinder the war effort of the Government. The only "fly in the amber" is the reduction of the statutory exemption to £200. Even at this stage I am hopeful that .the Government will relent and restore the exemption to £250. Taxes hit the workers hard, but the man who has £6,000 a year and has to pay £3,000 in tax still lives in luxury. When the loan pool drys tip other means of financing the war will have to be devised. We may discuss that when Parliament reassembles in the new year. 
Some honorable senators opposite do not seem to realize the seriousness of our position. We are locked in a death struggle with an enemy who is as powerful as he is unscrupulous. To beat him, as we must, calls for sacrifices from every body. In spite of the speeches of some honorable senators opposite the wealthy do not escape taxation.  Senator Keane  mentioned salaries in the £6,000 a year group. I point out to the honorable senator that the rate of income tax rises to a maximum of 14s. in the £1. If the whole of the incomes of the wealthy were taken we should still have insufficient money with which to conduct this war. Whether it be much or little that is taken from a man by way of taxes, his standard of living may be reduced, but we are fighting to preserve the standards we now enjoy. It is better to sacrifice a little in order to preserve the remainder than to lose all. 
My views concerning the statutory exemption differ from those honorable senators opposite. I have as much consideration as they have for the men on the lowest rung of the social ladder, but I do claim that men and women without dependants with incomes of £200 a year should not be exempt from federal taxes. They are well able to contribute a few shillings a week directly to the Consolidated. Revenue in order to assist not only in the maintenance of their own incomes and living standards but also in the preservation of their lives. The exemptions in respect of wives and families should be greater. 
Brief mention has been made of the war-time companies tax. We cannot deal with that tax in this debate, but I am glad that certain amendments have been made. The proposed methods of assessing and collecting that tax are now more in accord with my ideas than were those provided in the bill before the House of Representatives last session. 
Honorable senators opposite have taken credit for the improvements that have been made in the budget, hut those improvements were possible only because the representatives of the various parties on the Advisory War Council were able to reach a compromise. If they can do that as members of the Advisory War Council, the principle should be extended to a national government so that members of the Opposition would leave their mark, not merely on the income tax and the companies tax, but also, with beneficial effect, on all other war-time legislation. The Opposition has a duty to the people of Australia not merely to be represented on an advisory council, but also to get right into the Cabinet forgetting if necessary even their own party in order to do the war job as it should be done. If that had been done the budget could have been improved still further. 
Sometimes the electors do foolish things. I believe that the people of New South Wales will regret the decision they made at the ballot-box a few months ago. However, I am not concerned with party alignments. We have a job to do, and we should concentrate on that job to the exclusion of every other consideration. That leads me to emphasize that had the various parties in this Parliament displayed the same spirit of compromise on every issue confronting thom, as was shown in respect of the two or three points on which agreement were reached by the Advisory War Council, we should now be enabled to do a better job. This revenue must be found. It is idle to say that we can fight a war which will involve the expenditure of millions of pounds unless every individual in the community bears at least some portion of the burden. The heaviest portion of that burden, of course, should be placed on the shoulders of those best able to bear it.  Senator Darcey  would dispense with all of the means by which we intend to raise this revenue. He said that we should extend credit, to what limit neither he nor any other honorable senator knows. When property is destroyed or damaged by war, fire or storm, the damage can be repaired and the loss restored only by sacrifice. In respect of national works of a reproductive character, it is safe to expand credit; but destruction cannot he restored by that method. 
I do not know that it is. Losses through damage can only be made good by sacrifice; and in this war considerable material wealth will be destroyed. I again express pleasure that the budget has been improved as the result of discussions at the Advisory War Council ; and I repeat that had a greater degree of collaboration and compromise been exercised by the various parties in this Parliament, we should now be considering an even better budget. The budget has been improved only by compromise. Although I shall not remain a member of the Senate for very long, I hope that this Parliament will soon unite and show its ability to guide the destinies of Australia. That will be done only so soon as each party is prepared to compromise, not merely by 50 per cent., but by 100 per cent. If that day arrives before I vacate my seat in this chamber, I shall feel that my departure has, perhaps, contributed to a state of affairs under which all of us, including myself, will be better off. 
 I make one plea to the Government. It is obvious, as has been emphasized by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  that measures of the kind which we are now considering have become so complex that no individual, however humble or wealthy, is capable of grappling with them. Those difficulties react on everyone, from the man with an income of £200, up to the millionaire. Yet matters of this kind should be handled in the simplest form possible. We have brought about a situation in respect of income taxation which can be met only by the employment of specialists. Superimposed on that difficulty, are the complexities of the taxation systems of the respective States. An effort was made by a previous government to bring about uniformity between Commonwealth and State systems, and some progress was achieved in that  direction. I ask the Government to press on with that good work in order to relieve industry, and the individual, of a great deal of these troubles, and, at the same time, avoid the waste of money and effort which companies and individuals are now obliged to incur in dealing with their taxation returns and assessments. "We are in a maze. We must simplify our income tax systems. Even a system under which the Commonwealth is obliged to dole out specific sums to the States would be an improvement, on the present complex arrangements, because it would at least rid us of many of the  intricacies  that cause so much worry to-day. 
This budget is indeed a bitter burden; but in the near future we may be called upon to shoulder a heavier burden. It is in that spirit that I accept the bill. It was absolutely essential that the Government should raise the statutory exemption from £150 to £200. One realizes the difficulties which a man with dependants has to meet. Whilst much can be said for the contention advanced by  Senator Dein  that bachelors with incomes of £200 should be called upon to pay something, I have no doubt that such men will soon be brought within the scope of taxation, unless we have successes against our chief enemy greater than the victories which we are now winning against his junior partner. The adoption bv the Commonwealth of the method now employed by the States of collecting unemployment tax will mean that the Commonwealth will have the free use, as it were, of much of the taxpayers' money for a considerable period. By that means we should save a considerable amount in interest, and, for that reason, I am sure the collection of income tax by weekly instalments will appeal particularly to my friend,  Senator Darcey. 
 in reply  - The Government fully appreciates the difficulties which, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  stressed, confront the Senate owing to the circumstances in which bills of this character are placed 'before this chamber. The present  practice, however, is unavoidable. Owing to the character of the Senate, I believe that the House of 
Representatives is able to give greater consideration to legislation initiated in the Senate, than we are able to give to legislation which originates in the other branch of the legislature. The Senate, however, is not competent to initiate money bills. Consequently, we commence our sittings whenever such (bills must inevitably be placed before us in (the manner in which we are receiving them to-day. Everyone admits that in these circumstances, it is most difficult for honorable senators to thoroughly examine complex measures. 
Very little difference of opinion exists among honorable senators as a whole regarding the principles by which the Government should be actuated in the application of taxes. I do not think that many senators will deny that, on the scales of tax now proposed, the people enjoying higher incomes will contribute substantial sums to revenue. All differences arise mainly in respect of degree. Some say that the higher incomes should be taxed more heavily, and the lower ranges exempt, or more lightly taxed than is proposed under this measure. In these matters we ave guided, of course, to a considerable degree by precedent and practice. In a time of war the Commonwealth is called upon to meet financial burdens which do not concern the States. Consequently, the Commonwealth might reasonably be expected to go further than the States with its taxation measures. However, in spite of the criticism that has been hurled at the Government for proposing originally to reduce the statutory exemption level to £150, the exemptions allowed by the various States suffer by comparison with the concessions allowed by the Commonwealth. The Leader of the Opposition and other honorable senators opposite said that they were opposed to taxing lower incomes; but I would remind them that even in Queensland, where a Labour government has been in power for years, and there is not an upper House, the income tax exemption is £150. In Western Australia and Tasmania, where Labour governments are in power, the exemptions for a single man are £100 and £126 respectively. Therefore, it cannot  be  argued that even the proposed statutory exemption of £150 was  not justified. I appreciate very much the support given to this measure by honorable senators, and I trust it will have a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Statutory exemption). 
.- As this is the clause to which our main objection is taken, can the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator McBride)  give an assurance that should the financial position improve, even to a slight degree, reconsideration willbe given to the statutory exemption provided in this clause. 
I am afraid that the improvement mentionedby  Senator Keane  is a forlorn hope. In fact, the view of the Government is that, instead of our financial position improving, our difficulties will increase. Consequently, I do not think that there is any likelihood of this matterbeing reviewed for sometime. I shall note  Senator Keane's  objection. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 15 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I should like to mention one or two points raised by the Minister  (Senator McBride)  in the course of his secondreading speech. The honorable gentleman commenced by saying - 
In introducing this bill. I warn honorable senators at the outset that a heavy increase of rates of income tax is contemplated. The necessity for an increase, and a large increase, is obvious; we are at war with a ruthless enemy whose avowed objects are the destruction of democracy, and the imposition of a form of government utterly repugnant to a free people. We have undertaken our own defence against that menace, and not the least part of the task is to pay for the war. 
The Opposition agrees with that statement. We know what the situation is, and we realize that we shall have to pay the price. As  Senator Brown  said yesterday, it is far better that we should pour our last asset into the common fund than we should lose the liberty and freedom which we now enjoy. In the second paragraph of his speech the Minister said, " Sound finance is as important as an adequate supply of armaments ". We agree with that also, but we deny that the Government's financial policy is sound. In fact, we contend that in various important phases it is most unsound. As has been pointed out frequently in this chamber there are three ways to obtain revenue - taxation, loans andbank credit. The borrowing programme must of course come to an end sooner or later; the Government cannot go on piling up the burden. 
I know that. The interesting point is that the Minister and other honorable senators opposite are never prepared to admit that fact when a demand is made by Labour representatives that a definite attempt should be made to end the war against poverty and its terrors. When such a demand is made we are asked " Where is the money to come from?" 
I do not say that it could be obtained for nothing. I repeat that the Government's financial methods are most unsound, and unless some change be made, either in the financial policy of the Government, or the Government makes way for some other government with a sound policy, this country, with its 7,000,000 men, women and children, must inevitably face national insolvency. The Government is charged by the people of this country with the responsibility of government, and it must face up to its obligations. 
The Minister also said that, under the bill now before the Senate, a greatly increased burden would be placed on the wealthy. The Opposition knows that, hut it claims that that is the proper place to place the burden  of taxation. That is where we find the assets which the fighting forces here and abroad have been called upon to defend. The tangible assets of those who have little of this world's goods are negligible, but I realize that the working classes have the same interest as the wealthy in the intangible asset of liberty which is imperilled by this war. Next year more money will have to be raised to finance the war, and we should realize now that, if the Government continues to dip into the pockets of the people, thesupply will be exhausted, and it will be necessary to adopt the financial policy of the Labour party. 
The Minister referred to the severity of the State income tax imposed upon the people of Queensland, and even upon those with the lower incomes. In Queensland the State Government is in absolute control. 
With the exception of one period of three years, a Labour government has been in office in Queensland for 25 years. The Minister stated that in Queensland the State Government had descended to a very low point in the scale of income in imposing income tax. That is true, but it is also true that the workers in that State receive in return a tangible asset. 
The honorable senator is not referring, I presume, to the State butchers' shops. 
The Minister further stated, in his second-reading speech, that the great hulk of the nation's income is obtained from the tax contributed by those with incomes below the £400 level. If the Minister means that, because of their numbers, the total amount of the income earned by that class is greater than that of any other section of the community, he is telling the truth. If, however, he means that they have the greatest proportion of the national wealth of this country, his statement is inaccurate, and he is merely indulging in a little sophistry, so that persons on the £400 a year mark and below it may be, to a certain extent, comforted by the fact that he states that they have the great bulk of the nation's income. That is true, but they also have the least of the things that make a nation really great. 
I do not agree with that, and I do not think that the honorable senator will be thanked for that statement. 
The last census shows that of 881,926. breadwinners in Victoria, 10 per cent.  had no income. The distribution of the income of breadwinners in Victoria' is to be seen in the following table: - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_9_0.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures show the poverty of the workers in Victoria. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
The remarks which I made on the two preceding bills apply with equal force to this measure, and I shall not repeat them. I draw attention to a portion of the Minister's second-reading speech in which lie said - 
Reference has been made on several occasions to a report by the former Commissioner of Taxation in his seventh annual report, on the operation of the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act. As the present measure represents  a  distinct departure from the principle of that act, the Commissioner's report will bear repetition. He said- 
He then read from a report of the Commissioner of Taxation the following paragraph : - 
The tax is unequal and harsh in its incidence. These features of it are due to its peculiar construction, which, as shown by the figures quoted, permitted escape from the tax of the vast majority of large and oldestablished businesses which have made consistently substantial profits, both in amount and in percentage on capital employed, whilst small and struggling businesses, particularly those which were commenced before or after the outbreak of the recent war. were obliged to pay relatively heavy amounts in tax. Many young businesses, however, find themselves in positions of technical difficult)', from which there was no relief for them under the law. Some of those businesses had clearly benefited by the war, though it was impossible to ascertain whether their prices had been reasonable or unreasonable. Others of the young businesses had clearly made profits, apart from war conditions, and would probably have made greater profits if the war had not occurred. 
Members of the Labour party drew attention to these defects when the original bill was before the House of Representatives. We pointed out then that the proposed taxes, which never operated, would not be paid by the big companies. We realized then that this field of taxation had not been explored, and accordingly we are glad that this bill enters that field, thereby making the taxation proposals of the Government more just. I hope that should the need for additional revenue arise, the revenue from this quarter will show an upward trend. 
I had intended to discuss the financial proposals of the Government, but not to attempt to analyse the budget or the incidence of taxation as outlined in the statement presented to the Senate. Necessity is compelling the Governmentto seek greater efficiency in taxation matters. I refer, not to means whereby more money may be extracted from the people, but to attempts to reach a better understanding with the States. The gravity of the international situation has at last forced the Government to make strenuous efforts for the defence of this country. I should like to see the same energy displayed  in  planning for the future production of wealth as is now exhibited in taxing the wealth that has been produced. The Government has consistently held the view that the future production of wealth in this country is a matter for the States; it has attempted to divorce the National Parliament from the real problems of the nation. The only way to meet the situation that confronts us is by marshalling the forces of the nation and developing its resources in the interests of the people generally rather than of a privileged few. The Government should confer with the States with a view to planning for the future production of Australia and the wise utilization of its resources. We hear a great deal about a new order in the world. I should welcome a discussion on that subject. The Senate has always been reluctant to face squarely the problem of the wise development of the resources of the country, and the maintenance of the living standard of its people. Under our present system, finance must be obtained from certain sources. I believe that the advice tendered to the Government by its experts has been sound, and I am pleased that the Government has shown a willingness to explore fresh avenues from which revenue might be obtained. The same zeal and energy should be displayed in planning for the future. Instead of setting State against State, and class against class, we should develop a national outlook. The only way to maintain our living standard is to plan for the greatest good for the greatest number. Indeed, that is the only policy which will bring lasting peace to this war-torn world. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Definitions). 
Reference is made in this clause to the Board of Review. Can the Minister indicate the personnel of that body? 
la a bank regarded as a trading company ? 
I wish to direct attention to the growth of bank assets. During the past 25 years, the assets of the Australian trading banks increased a.s follows: - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_11_1.jpg"></graphic>


 -(Senator James McLachlan) - Order! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the clause before the committee. 
The honorable senator may not deal with that subject at, this stage. 
The. honorable senator was given a. reply* He must now discuss the clause which, deals with definitions. 
The honorable senator will resume his seat. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Delegation by the commissioner)  
This clause provides, amongst other things, for the delegation of powers by the Commissioner of Taxation to deputy commissioners. I want to know who they are, because on one occasion the Queensland income tax legislation was amended in a way which had no precedent in any part of the British Empire. The amended legislation enabled' the State Treasurer, or any person whom .he appointed, to require the Commissioner of Taxation to allow such a person to search the income tax records of any taxpayer. I must be assured that there is no such provision as that in this bill. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 13 agreed to. 
Clause 14 (Companies exempt from tax). 
I have been asked, by interjection, how a private company is defined under the Income Tax Assessment Act. Under that act, "private company " means a company which is under the control of not more than seven persons, and which .is not a company in which the public is substantially interested or is a subsidiary of a public company. 
The exemption applies to life assurance companies whose liabilities exceed their assets. 
All private banks whose income exceeds the prescribed rate will come within the scope of the tax. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 37 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- The Opposition does not propose to debate this bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
To-day,  Senator Collings  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is it a fact that universal trainees are inoculated against smallpox? 
If the answer is in the affirmative., is such inoculation compulsory? 
Is an outbreak of smallpox likely or anticipated in trainee camps? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers : - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No, but it is necessary to take all reasonable precautions in view of the concentration of troops in cai ups and the possibility of contacts with troops returned from the Middle East. 
 The honorable senator also asked today,  upon notice - 
In view of the reply given by the Minister for the Army as to the reasons for the abandonment of the military camp established at Dapto, would the Minister now state what action has been taken, or is contemplated, in respect of those officers on whose advice the site of the camp was determined in the first place? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers: - 
No action has been taken, or is contemplated, against such officers, as determination of this camp site was dictated by the circumstances existing at that period having regard to the special role of the unit. 
 by leave - 1  An unusual difficulty seems to have arisen in regard to transport from Canberra to Sydney. Honorable senators who wish to leave for Sydney to-night have been informed that no sleepers are available. We have been told that a. few sleepers from Cooma may be available to us at Queanbeyan. As some of us made our bookings a fortnight ago, and the majority as early as last Wednesday, those berths will be rushed. This development means that most of those honorable senators who contemplated returning to Sydney to-night will now be obliged to travel by the train leaving Canberra at 4.15 p.m. In view of the fact that we made our bookings a fortnight ago this development is most unsatisfactory. 
 by leave  - The matter raised by the honorable senator is really one for the State Railways Department and our transport officers. In order to assist honorable senators I have instructed the chief executive of my department to take up the matter immediately with the Commissioner for Railways in Sydney. 
The honorable senator would  be  well advised to join the train leaving Canberra at 4.15 p.m. 
As the object of this bill was clearly set out by the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  in his second-reading speech, the measure does not seem to me to require discussion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- As the provisions of this bill are necessary, and represent an act of justice to those officers to whom it will apply, the Opposition welcomes its introduction. 
The object of this measure is to ensure that officers appointed to special positions will not lose the rights to which they are entitled under the Public Service Act. I support the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purposeof the bill is to extend the benefits of the Post and Telegraph Rates (Defence Forces) Act 1939-40 to representatives of certain organizations which are engaged in providing welfare services to members of the Commonwealth forces in Australia, or on active service overseas. The present act applies only to members of the forces as defined in the act. It is considered that persons attached to the forces and performing duties for these organizations should be entitled to avail themselves of the cheaper mail and telegraph rates provided for in the act. This bill contains a definition of " representative of an organization ". The organisations are to be such as are authorized by the Minister for Defence Co-ordination bo provide philanthropic, welfare or medical services for members of the forces. For the purposes of the bill it is proposed to authorize organizations such as theRed Cross Society, the Young Men's Christian Association, the Australian Comforts Fund, and the Salvation Army, to provide the services mentioned. 
 The Opposition is in entire agreement with the bill. It is only right that the representatives of organizations rendering services to the fighting forces should have the benefit of these concessions. 
.- Again Iprotest against the practice of rushing large numbers ofbills through the Senate during the concluding stages of a session. I am sure that arrangements could be made to present business in an orderly manner and thus afford honorable senators an opportunity to examine the legislation to be considered. 
The Minister read the names of specific organizations covered by this legislation. Can other organizations apply for recognition ? 
 in reply -  On the approval of the Minister for Defence Co-ordination  (Mr. Menzies),  the concessions may be extended to other organizations conducting similar services. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The amendment embodied in this bill is designed to remove an anomaly which has arisen in relation to gold tax deducted from the proceeds of gold recovered by tributers. In the gold-mining industry, it is a common practice for a mine owner or lessee to let portion of the mine to tributers, who in return for certain royalties, are empowered to search for, win and dispose ofany gold ore recovered. Ore recovered by the tributers is ordinarily disposed of to the owner or lessee of the mine under tribute, and is crushed and treated at the mine battery or treatment plant. Gold recovered from the ore treated is delivered by the mine owner or lessee to the Commonwealth Bank, or its agent, and the proceeds of the gold, less certain deductions, are paid to the tributers. As required by sub-section 2 of section 7 of the Gold Tax Collection Act, the Commonwealth Bank or its agent, in making payment to the mine owner or lessee for the gold delivered, deducts the amount of gold tax payable thereon. Under the existing law, however, a mine owner or lessee in Western Australia in accounting to the tributer for the proceeds of the gold has no legal right to reduce the amount payable by the amount of the tax deducted by the bank. This position exists by reason of the operation of a provision in the Mining Act of Western Australia, enacted prior to the imposition of the gold tax, which limits the deductions which the mineowner or lessee is legally authorized to make to deductions to cover - 
service charges payable by the tributer for service prior to the delivery of the ore;  (ft) cost of treatment and realization; and 
the amount of royalty or tribute payable. lt is clearly anomalous that a section of the gold producers of the Commonwealth should, by the fortuitous operation of a State act, be  enabled  to escape a tax liability which is borne by all other gold producers in the Commonwealth. The amendment proposed will remove this anomaly. 
.- This is a short measure framed to eliminate an anomaly. The Opposition will not oppose it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
It will be recalled that I made a vigorous protest in this 'chamber against the deJay in the introduction of the budget. I have received the following letter from the Treasurer of Tasmania, which supports what I said regarding the inconvenience caused to the State Governments in this connexion - 
I enclose you copy of a press statement 1 niii.de on the federal budget a couple of days ago. The  Mercury  published a fair portion of it, but, perhaps not unnaturally, suppressed the actual criticisms proffered by myself in connexion with the flimsy nature of the federal financial statement. Certainly, unless federal Treasurers alter their methods, it will be a very long time before the Grants Commission will describe any federal budget as a " standing budget " enabling all to see at a glance the truth in reference to federal finance. This is a tribute the Grants Commission repeatedly paid to my methods in compiling the financial statement of Tasmania. 
However, this is not the material matter, the important point is that Tasmania (and every other State too) is entitled to know by bow much  their  burdens' will be increased by additional federal taxation in 1040-41. All these particulars should be itemized. I hope you will take some steps to ascertain the facts in relation to Tasmania and have them inserted in  Hansard  and duly published in the press.  1  have had all my experts on this issue and it is quite impossible to winnow out the real facts from.  Mr. Fadden's  statement or from his budget papers as published in  lfu.iim.rd.  and it. is a. monstrous procedure to cloak up the truth from the public at such a critical time as this. 
The press statement referred to is ns follows : - 
The Treasurer  (Mr. Dwyer-Gray)  said yesterday that a perusal of the text of  Mr. Fadden's  annual financial statement, as Federal Treasurer, as printed in  Hansard  of the 21st November, with its accompanying budget papers, filled him with amazement tha.t the Federal Parliament could be satisfied with such flimsy, insufficient and confusing expositions of the financial ali:airs of the Commonwealth. He was not blaming  Mr. Fadden,  who was a very able and most likeable man, and who, in any case only recently assumed the office of Federal Treasurer. In that capacity he had. unfortunately, inherited a very bad federal tradition in these respects. The only budget paper showing "the  estimated revenue of the Commonwealth for 1940-41" given in  Hansard  was not only utterly lacking in proper detail, but was headed " .Based on Kates of Taxation as Amended in May, 1940", which made the table utterly out of date and useless. What was plainly required was a detailed table showing the estimated revenue as affected not only by what was decided in May, 1040, but as affected by the Federal Treasurer's proposals of the 21st November. Cbe budget table of estimated revenue was £81,100,000 short of its proper total, because the Treasurer's proposals of the 21st  November  included additional taxation to that amount, which, added to an additional £14,000,000 approved in May, 1940, made a total increased taxation amount of £45,100,000. On the other hand  Mr. Fadden  indicated that "the increase in estimated total taxation this year, compared with the actual collections last year, waa £36,314,000". These figures were, no doubt, reconcilable, but they were both confused and confusing, and it would take experts a considerable amount of research to find out what were the actualities. The Federal Treasury must be perfectly well aware, nol only what amount of taxation was really involved, but should be able to give details as to what amount of extra taxation, under  what headings, would be involved for each State, and he (the Treasurer) trusted that some Tasmanian representatives would immediately ask for full details as far as the; affected Tasmania, especially in regard to income tax. Every State was entitled to know what increased amount the Federal Government intended to take from its taxpayers and through what sources, and all such details must be known at the Federal Treasury, otherwise bulked estimates would not be possible. One of the most important matters, on which the public should be fully informed, was by how much the Federal Treasury would benefit by lowering the exemption for federal income tax from £250 to £150, and figures for each State should be given, as this particular alteration would probably tell much more against Tasmania than other States. To give calculations showing what would be obtained from " incomes under £400 ", which the Federal Treasurer had done, without allowing the public to know how much he would receive by lowering the exemption was, in his opinion, the opposite of candid on the part of Treasury officials responsible for the calculations. It might be said that some of these matters had been contracted in  Ilansard.  If so, he thought they had been very unwisely contracted. As everybody knew, ho  (Mr.  Dwyer-Gray  ) believed in giving the public all possible financial figures and facts. Another issue he desired to raise, in the interests of Tasmania, related to interstate trade figures, which were all-important to Tasmania. About 81 per cent, of Tasmania's total trade for 1938-39 was interstate. He had made use of the full figures for 1038-30 at the sessions of the Com mon wealth Grants Commission in Hobart in February last, but when the other day, in order to bring the story up-to-date, he asked for the figures for 1939-40, he was informed that no interstate trade statistics were now available or published on account of the war. He could not see how anything could possibly be more stupid than that. Surely all actual or potential foes could learn sufficient from the 1938-39 figures, and those of previous years, about the sea routes involved in Australia's interstate trade. Uptodate figures could not inform the enemy of anything they did not already know. It was very necessary to have some reliable indicators as to the effect of war conditions upon Tasmanian trade in time, so that some remedy could be taken, if there was a trend towards untoward developments, before it was too late to check the mischief. 
Tasmania is suffering a great disability at the present juncture. Its direct shipping service from Sydney to Hobart has been suspended for some months. The large overseas steamers which usually call at Hobart are not visiting Tasmania at the present time, and the return fare between Tasmania and the mainland is now twice what it was when a direct service was provided. The Government should do all that it can to provide the State with at least one steamer for the Christmas traffic. 
Another misfortune which Tasmania is suffering is its inability to export fresh and canned fruit to Great Britain, although it has one of the largest canning establishments in Australia. Tasmania was the first State to export apples to Great Britain, and eventually it evolved a system whereby fresh fruit could be landed at Southampton in good condition. Orchardists in the other States have enjoyed the benefits resulting from Tasmanian expenditure and experience. I trust that the Government will do everything possible to provide one or two vessels for the carriage of tourists to Hobart. 
I shall be leaving for Hobart this afternoon, in order to cool off under the slopes of Mount Wellington, and I take this opportunity to wish my fellow senators the compliments of the season. We have had some hard debates in this chamber, but we are closing the present sittings in a friendly spirit. The feud between the McLeay clan and the McBride clan has been settled by the elevation of  Senator McBride  to full ministerial rank. The genial General Brand is of the right brand, and has given valuable information to the Government on military matters.  Senator Uppill  from South Australia has been engaged in an uphill fight against his natural reticence. Yesterday he gaye us a good speech on wheat. As to  Senator Abbott,  we all hope that his peace plan will succeed, although centralization of power such as he has suggested is not always a success.  Senator James  McLachlan and  Senator A.  J. McLachlan have accorded me a pat on the back for my earnestness of purpose. I miss the genial senator from Western Australia,  .Senator E.  B. Johnston. He is probably floating about on the Swan River or at any rate is iri the Swan electorate. 
There is a monument outside this House, and it is almost completed. For some months I have wondered why it was being erected, and with that thought in my mind I recently fell asleep. . I dreamt that it was a monument erected by the " social creditors " of Australia to mark the occasion when the people were induced to turn from unsound and unsafe finance to the sane, sound and sure financial system which I have advocated in this chamber. ' I dreamt that the intention of this committee was to put an enormous figure of myself on the top of the monument. My natural modesty prevented me from agreeing to that proposal, but I suggested that the magical figure "504" should be cut into the enduring stone, so that he who runs may  read. I believe that I shall live to see my dream come true. When I began to speak in this chamber on the subject of finance, I was described as a voice crying in the wilderness. I stated that, so long as there was a financial wilderness in Canberra, my voice would continue to be heard. One of several names that have been applied to me is " Richard Coeur de Lion ". One needs the heart of a lion and the enthusiasm of a crusader to carry on the fight for monetary reform. I feel sure that the financial views that I have expressed in this chamber from time to time will eventually bear fruit. I believe that next year we shall have the sound, sane and sure monetary system which I have advocated, and which will save Australia. 
A new telephone directory may be printed before the Parliament reassembles in the new year. Will the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  take steps to see that the new directory is printed in such a manner that it will be readable? It is utterly impossible for many people to discover the telephone numbers they require. I regard the reduction of the size of the print on the score of economy as undesirable. 
.- The telephone directory has been reduced in size in order to comply with requests from the Trade and Customs Department to conserve paper. The saving of paper effected totals 300 tons. Money previously sent to non-sterling countries for the purchase of paper has been saved for the purchase of aeroplanes. However, the matter raised by the honorable senator will be considered. As the present issue of directories was printed before I became Postmaster-General, I do not accept responsibility for the action taken in the matter. 
A report appeared in the  Canberra Times  on the 11th December last of remarks by the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Poll)  in reply to a question asked by  Senator Clothier.  The Minister was reported to have said - 
The Government had no desire to run any more hotels or hostels in Canberra, and for that reason had called for tenders for a ten-years' lease of Barton House. 
It had been impossible, said the Minister, for the Government to make Hotel Kurrajong pay owing to the scale of charges to members of Parliament and other guests not being high enough to meet expenses. It was quite possible, however, that under private management better results might be shown and under private management Barton House would no doubt be made to pay. 
As a member of this Parliament, and as a boarder at the Hotel Kurrajong, I enter a protest against that statement. As to the Minister's remark that the hotel does not pay, owing to the scale of charges to members of Parliament and other guests not being high enough to meet expenses, I point out that members of Parliament pay £2 10s. a week for full board and residence. In the capital city of Queensland I can obtain board and. lodging, and also soft washing, equal to any accommodation available at the Hotel Kurrajong, for 30s. a week. For 35s. a week I could live at a palatial boarding establishment. 
I am speaking of a private boarding house with 200 rooms. The statement to which I have referred entirely misrepresents the position. The following table of figures taken from official records shows the state of the trust fund relating to hotels in the Australian Capital Territory:- 
If no charge had been made to cover a percentage of the overhead costs of the department, the Hotel Kurrajong would never have shown any loss because its receipts have always equalled the expenditure. I do not begrudge the payment of £2 10s. a week to live at the Hotel Kurrajong; it more nearly approximates to a " home from home " than any other place in which I have lived. I am reminded of a man who was seeking accommodation, and when he saw outside one boarding house a notice containing the words, "Just like home", he said, "Who wants to go there? " The service at the Hotel Kurrajong is excellent, although, perhaps, the Government could exercise more supervision over some of the contractors who supply its requirements. No chef, however, can serve boarders with tender joints if the contractors supply tough meat. I direct the attention of the Minister, whom I compliment on the splendid way he is standing up to his job, to the following extract from page 46 of the financial statement for 1933-34: - 
In 1033-34, £1,000 was appropriated for the maintenance and upkeep of hotels, which  amount  was to be paid to the credit of the Trust Fund Hotels Account. Action" to transfer to the Trust Account was not taken and the appropriation lapsed. Nothing has since been appropriated towards the maintenance and upkeep of the establishments still under government control and no provision has been made in the Estimates for 1040-41. 
Obviously the Government is not alarmed at the situation. As honorable senators know, I am an ardent supporter of government control of everything. That is the only way out of the  status quo,  if we accept as a definition of that term, " The trouble that we are now in ". Barton House, which appears to me to be well built, is being erected to provide accommodation for public servants receiving small salaries. I understand that the amount which they will have to pay has already been fixed. Why do honorable senators gibe at governmental control? Private enterprise will not build hostels for people who can afford to pay only £1 16s. a week. 
No. 
Brisbane has 300,000 inhabitants, whereas Canberra's population does not exceed 12,000. The Minister should not lose sight of the fact that when the government hotels in Canberra were handed over to private enterprise, the new landlords retained the services of the managers. Where did the privately-controlled hostels get the women-folk who look after the Hotel Canberra and the other establishments in this city? It is strange that the same management has made a success of those hostels under private enterprise, whereas; according to the Minister, the hostels did not pay when the same persons controlled them for the Government. It is evident that the people behind the scenes who control the  Government  are not doing their job properly. As an example of the success that can attend governmental control, I direct attention to the trading results of the Postal Department. No one suggests that that department should be placed under private control. Ite administration is so satisfactory that a person can walk into the post office in the humblest bush hamlet and buy a postage stamp and receive other services, notwithstanding that the administration is from Canberra. The Minister knows that private enterprise could not. make such a satisfactory job of the postal business. The records of the insolvency courts are eloquent testimony to the fact that private enterprise is a failure. 
Whose pockets provide private enterprise with its profits? 
Every customer of private enterprise is a taxpayer. The  Canberra Times  is usually more reliable in its leaders and news columns than are most other sections of the press. I say that, notwithstanding that I do not always agree with the -views expressed. If the Minister did make the statement attributed to him in. the  Canberra Times  of the 11th December, I can only say that it is most misleading and unfair. He is at liberty to study the figures which I  have cited. Should the lease of Barton House to private enterprise not yet be signed I suggest that the negotiations cease and the Government carry on the hostel under its own control. 
I cannot understand why the Government has not taken action to pay compensation to members of the militia and universal trainees who are injured or killed during the course of their training. Some months ago the honorable member for Lang  (Mr. Mulcahy)  directed the attention of the House of Representatives to the case of a member of the Militia who was killed while in camp. The Government refused to accept responsibility, but offered to his parents an  ex gratia  payment of £50 which, I understand, they have refused to collect. The Minister, in reply, said that the Defence Act did not contain any provision for the payment of compensation in such cases. As honorable senators know, the rights of members of the Australian Imperial Force are safeguarded, as, indeed, they should be. These trainees do not enter camp voluntarily but are compulsorily enlisted, and should the hazardous nature of the work that they are sometimes called upon to perform lead to injury or death, provision for payment of compensation to their dependants should be made. The Minister added that an amendment of the Defence Act would be necessary before payment could be made in such cases. I ask why that act has not already been amended, in order to place these men on the same footing as members of the Australian Imperial Force. 
 vn. reply  - I agree with  Senator Darcey  that it is most desirable that an effort should bo made to secure greater uniformity between the Commonwealth and the States in taxation matters. Attempts to achieve that end have been made from time to time, with satisfactory results; but there is still a good deal of difference between the methods employed by the Commonwealth and the States. The correspondence from which the honorable gentleman quoted suggested that the Commonwealth should advise the 
State governments of its taxation proposals and their possible effect on the State revenues, but I point out that such action would need to be reciprocal. The suggestion has much to commend it, but the States garner in the field of direct taxation before the Commonwealth enters it. The degree to which the States exact money from the people affects the amount which the Comonwealth may obtain from the same source. 
I have not yet had an opportunity to study the figures presented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  but I understand that they do not include interest and depreciation. A hostel whose accounts do not provide for interest on capital and depreciation may cover working expenses and yet make a loss. 
That may be; but for the reasons that I have mentioned they may still be misleading. 

 Senator Armstrong referred to the need to provide for payment of compensation to the dependants of universal trainees and members of the Militia who may be injured or killed while on duty. He mentioned an instance concerning which an ex-Minister for the Army had said there was no provison  in the Defence Act to cover such cases. I now inform the honorable senator that a committee has been set up to inquire into this matter. Its report is not yet to hand, but I assure him that when it is presented it will be given careful consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
.- I move- ' 
That tlie bill be now read a second time. This measure provides for the appropriation of revenue for the ordinary services of the various departments. The expenditure proposals of the Government have already been dealt with in the budget, papers, and it is not now proposed to refer to the various items in detail. Any explanation that may be desired by honorable senators will be furnished at the committee stage. 
The bill provides for an appropriation of £67,167,800 for the services of the year 1940-41, to which should be added the amounts already granted under Supply Acts Nos. 1, 2 and 3 of 1940, namely ?13,709,200, ?6,732,000 and ?2,S96,000 respectively, making a total of ?90,505,000, which is the estimated expenditure from annual appropriations for ordinary services for the year 1940-41, as set out in detail in the second schedule to the bill. 
In order to conserve paper supplies, the major portion of the second schedule has been omitted from copies of the bill circulated among honorable senators. That schedule is merely a reprint of the Estimates for 1940-41, after certain statistical and other information has been abstracted. Any details required by honorable senators may be obtained from the Estimates. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In 
 committee 
 : 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
First schedule agreed to. 

 -(Senator James McLachlan). - With the concurrence of the committee, I propose taking the second schedule as a whole. 
Honor asms Senators. - Hear, hear ! 
Second schedule. 
Will the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator McLeay)  tell me what amount of the proposed vote of ?12,829,000 for the Postal Department wall be expended in Western Australia? My object in asking is to ascertain what is to be clone about the provison  of a new post office at Inglewood in Western Australia. 
.^Offhand, I cannot answer the honorable gentleman's question, but I shall take a later opportunity to do so. 
In view of the financial position, I can give no undertaking on the matter. 
According to the department, 300 tons of paper will be saved this year. 
Improved travelling facilities are needed on the  East-West  railway. The shortage of passenger accommodation is such that people have had to wait for three or four weeks before being able to book berths. The booking was so heavy when I last returned to Western Australia that I was unable to accompany my colleagues,  Senator Cunningham  and  Senator Fraser  on the journey. I should have to book now to return to the west in January. As a matter of fact, I think that berths on all trains on the East- West line are fully booked until the end of January. 
.- All available rolling stock is in use. New coaches are being built at Port Augusta. It is impossible to replenish rolling stock on the Commonwealth section of the East-West line from State railway services because the Commonwealth rolling stock is of a. standard-gauge of 4 ft. 8? in. whereas the South Australian Railway's section is of a gauge of 5 ft. 3 in. and in Western Australia the railways are of the 3 ft. 6 in. gauge. 
Yes. 
It provides for additional rolling stock which is urgently needed. 
I do not know of any complaints having been received by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  about travelling arrangements for troops on leave. The troops are issued with free railway passes in some cases and with concession tickets in others. If the honorable senator thinks that existing arrangements should be varied, any ideas that he cares to submit on the subject will be considered by the Minister for the Army. 
.- Grave dissatisfaction exists among members of the fighting forces with respect to the travelling facilities offered by the various State railway authorities. There is lack of uniformity between the States. As the soldiers are under the control of the Commonwealth, this Government should take up the matter with the States and endeavour to settle this vexed question. 
Will any provision be made from the proposed vote of £95,000 for the Department of Supply and Development for research into indigenous supplies of metals needed for  Avar  industries? 
 Could provision be made from the proposed vote for the Department of the Army to improve arrangements for dental treatment of soldiers. I have heard of cases of soldiers having to wait, months for dentures after having had their teeth extracted, and meanwhile being compelled to live on army " hard tack ". It seems wrong that such conditions should exist, especially at military camps near large towns where dentists are. available. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Preamble agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move- ' 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Following is a summary of the proposed appropriation for additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c. : - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_21_3.jpg"></graphic>

Large works provided for in the bill are - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_21_4.jpg"></graphic>

The expenditure on civil aviation works is occasioned, largely by defence requirements. In addition to the amount of £.1,176,000, which is to be appropriated from revenue for postal works, a further amount of £2,000.000 will be provided from loan fund. The latter amount was the subject of a loan bill. The total .expenditure on postal works in 1939-40 was £3,178,000. The amount, required for territories of the Commonwealth shows an increase of £240^000 over last year's expenditure. This increase is attributable to large developmental programmes necessitated by the increasing populations of both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In Canberra substantial expenditure is necessary in the provision of cottages and the necessary engineering services. An amount of £75,000 has been included towards the cost of the Canberra hospital. At Darwin also considerable expenditure is required in the provision of a hospital, and electricity and water supplies to meet theneeds of the rapidly-expanding population. 
The appropriation of £3,421,000 does not include works constructed out of the Federal Aid Roads grant to the States, which this year is estimated to amount to £3,100,000. It also excludes works for defence and war services, which are being charged to loan fund, and works made possible by the Commonwealth grant of £100,000 a year in aid of interest and sinking fund on public works carried out by local authorities. Although certain works in progress at the 30th June last have been carried on by credits from Treasurer's Advance, this bill authorizes the commencement of a number of new works which it is highly desirable should be put in hand at the earliest possible moment. I trust, therefore, that honorable senators will facilitate the speedy passage of the bill. Any details required regarding specific works can be supplied during the committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time.  in committee: 
Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
.Under division 25, relating to the Australian Capital Territory, there is an item "Department of Health - Buildings, Works, Fittings and Furniture ", the amount provided for which is £75,300. The appropriation last year was £24,500, of which only £3,329 was expended. There is a footnote which states that there is an estimated further liability of £79,000. Does that provision relate to the erection of a hospital in Canberra ? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed vote - War Service Homes Commission, £63,000 - agreed to. 
.- I should like the Minister  (Senator Foll)  to furnish me with detailed particulars of the larger items in this proposed vote. 
This is largely made up of the increased amount set aside for the construction of additional aerodromes, principally defence aerodromes, but in some cases to serve the combined purpose of civil aviation and defence. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 

 Proposed votes - Department of Trade and Customs £6,900; Department of Health £34,800 ; Department of Repatriation £3S,000; and Department of Commerce £20,800 - agreed to. 
Part II.  -  Business Undertakings. 

 Proposed vote, £1,326,000. 
Can the Minister advise me as to whether any portion of the proposed vote for the Postmaster-General's Department will be expended on the erection of a cable station at King Island, the construction of which, I understand, was undertaken a couple of years ago, and on the erection of an official post office al Flinders Island? On one occasion, the cable between Tasmania and the mainland was cut by the reef which it crosses, and it is likely to break again because it still crosses that reef. Until the station at King Island is ready for use, and the cable can be diverted to another course which will obviate crossing the reef, whenever a breakage occurs the cable will have to be joined. 
'Provision is  made  for a small expenditure on the cable station at King Island. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Part III.  -  Territories of the Commonwealth. 

 Proposed vote, £1,096,000. 
.- Provision is made for an expenditure of £.12,000 on the item "Metalliferous Mining - Construction of Batteries ". Where are these batteries to be constructed? Will the Minister also inform me as to whether complaints concerning high battery charges have been rectified? 
This provision is for the battery at Tennant Creek. Since the honorable senator introduced a deputation of miners from Tennant Creek, there has been a good deal of discussion concerning the matter, and a conference has been held between the mining warden and the people on the field. From that time no further complaints have been received. 
An amount of £409,840 is provided for architectural services, fittings and furniture, in the Australian Capital Territory. A little over £500,000 was voted on this account last year, and only £295,467  was  expended. What are the main items  of  this expenditure? 
.- The bulk of the expenditure relates to cottage construction and attendant services in Canberra. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill proposes to amend the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act in respect of service pensions. The maximum rates of pension for members of the forces and their wives will be increased by an amount equal to the proposed increase of invalid and old-age pensions. 
Service pensions, which were instituted in January, 1936, are really a scheme of invalid or old-age pensions for members of the forces, on a more liberal basis than that of the invalid and old-age pension scheme for the general community. It is more liberal to a member right from the initial stage when he lodges his application, and is informed as to the grounds on which a pension may be granted. Such a pension may be granted on account of age, being permanently unemployable, or suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. 
On the ground of age, a service pension maybe awarded five years earlier than is possible with the ordinary old-age pension ; male ex-members of the forces can be admitted at 60 years of age, and an Australian Imperial Force ex-nurse, at 55 years of age. 
If admitted on either of the two other grounds, not only is he eligible for a pension, but his wife, and children up to four in number, may also be granted pensions, merely on relationship. No such provision exists in respect of pension under the Invalid and Old-age Pension Act. The maximum grant under that act to an invalid would be 20s. a week; under the service pension scheme it would be, in the case instanced, 44s. a week, being 17s. to the member, 17s. to the wife, and 10s. for the children. 
As will be seen from the clauses of the bill, the rates of pension for members and wives have been increased by 2s. a fortnight, except where the pensioner, being in a public institution, is paid the rate prescribed under Section 45ao for such a pensioner. At present that rate is 14s. a fortnight, the difference between that amount and the ordinary rate being paid to the institution towards the maintenance of the pensioner. It is intended that, of the increase of 2s. a fortnight,1s. shall go to the pensioner, and1s. shall be made to the institution. 
With this increase of the service pension the maximum rate for a wife is now the same as the war pension for the wife of a soldier who is totally incapacitated as the result of war service. 
This measure is warmly welcomed by  the  Opposition, and I am sure I shall not be considered ungracious if I say a word or two about the procedure which resulted in its introduction. It will be  recalled  that as a result of collaboration between members of the Advisory  War  Council certain improvements in the Government's budget proposals were agreed to, one of which was an increase of ls. in invalid and old-age pensions. As a. result of the granting of that increase it was decided that a similar increase should be made in the service pension. That is the whole intention of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Service pension in respect of a member permanently unemployable or suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis). 
.- Will  the Assistant Minister  (Senator Collett)  state whether this clause  means  that a soldier suffering from a distressing lung complaint will automatically receive a service pension? In common with other honorable senators, I know of many of these men who have been unsuccessful in their applications to the various tribunals, even though they are unemployable. 
This clause has nothing to do with eligibility; it merely alters the rates. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time:  Sitting suspended from to h.80 p.m. 
I move - 
That the  bill be  now  read  a  second time. 
The purpose of the bill is twofold - first,  to  increase the maximum rate of invalid and old-age pensions from £1 to £1 ls.  a  week, and secondly, to make provision for the maximum rate of pension to be varied automatically in accordance with variation of the cost of living. 
The new maximum of £54 12s. per annum, or £1 ls. a week, will be the highest amount to be received by pensioners since the introduction of Commonwealth old-age pensions in 1909. The variations in the pensions rate since that time have been as follows: - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_24_5.jpg"></graphic>

There are at present approximately 333,000 invalid and old-age pensioners, and they will all receive the benefit of the increase of ls. a week provided for in. the bill. The additional cost will be £900,000 per annum, which will bring the total cost of invalid and old-age pensions up to £18,000,000 per annum. The additional expenditure for the remainder of this financial year will be £470,000. 
The bill preserves the existing margins  of  permissible income, namely, £32 10s. per annum, - or 12s. 6d. a week, in the case of pensioners other than .permanently blind persons, and £175 10s. per annum, or £3 7s. 6d. per week, in the case of blind pensioners. Consequently, the limit of income, plus pension, will now become £S7 2s. per annum, or £1 13s. 6d. a week, in the case of pensioners other  than, permanently blind persons, and £230 2s. per annum, or £4 8s. 6d. a week, in the ease of blind pensioners. 
The second purpose of the bill - the linking of the pension to changes in the cost of living - is not entirely new. This principle was first introduced in October, 1933, in the Financial Relief Act. Provision was then made for the pension rate to rise or fall, within the limits of 17s. 6d. to £1 a week, by 6d. for every variation of 100 units in the retail price index number for food and groceries for the six capital cities of the States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician for the twelve months ending on the 31st March in each year. The basis of these variations is shown in the following table :- 

<graphic href="165332194012134_25_6.jpg"></graphic>

Under this table, there was a rise of 6d. in the pension in July, 1935, i.e., from 17s. 6d. to 18s. a week. 
In September, 1936, under the Financial Relief Act No. 2, a new table of price index numbers was substituted for the previous table. The same index was retained, but the numbers were regrouped and. related to higher rates of pension, within the limits of  18s  - instead of 17s. 6d. - and £1 a week. The new table was as follows: - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_25_7.jpg"></graphic>

The immediate result of the new table was an increase of the pension rate from 18s. to 19s. a week, which became operative from the 24th September, 1936. 
In September, 1937, the Pensions Act was again amended to give a further increase of the pension from 19s. to £1 a. week, and the provisions relating to cost of living variations were repealed. The pension has since remained at £1 a week. 
As already stated, the food and groceries index was previously used as the basis for measuring variations of the cost of living for the purpose of variations of the pension rate. On this occasion, however, it has been decided to adopt the all items index of household expenditure, " C " series, as the basis for variations of pension. This series takes account, not only of food and groceries, but also of rent, clothing and miscellaneous items of household expenditure. It is also used by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court in determining the basic wage. 
It will be observed that under the bill the new maximum rate of £1 ls. a week will continue while the price index number does not exceed 9S1. The latest available figure is 959. The bill also makes provision for the pension of £1 ls. to rise by 6d. a week for every 23 units, or portion thereof, by which the price index number exceeds 981. Thus, a rise in the price index number to 9S2 will result in a further increase of 6d. a week in the pension. The bill provides that the maximum rate of pension shall not fall below £54 12s. per annum, or £1 ls. a week. 
Groups of 23 units have been decided upon with a view to securing variations of the rate of pension proportionate to the variation of the cost of living. In this connexion, it should be noted that the cost of living provisions which operated from 1933 to 1937 required variations of 100 units in the price index number for food and groceries to secure a variation of 6d. in the weekly pension. The effect was that variations of the pension were not by any means proportionate to the variations of the cost, of living. The equivalent of 100 units in the food and groceries index is about 60 units in the all items index. The fact that it has been decided to adopt groups of only 23 units for every variation of 6d. in the pension indicates that the provisions regarding the cost of living variations contained in this bill are much more liberal than those previously in operation. 
It is also worthy of note that, in October, 1925, when the all items price index number was 1001, the maximum pension was only £1 a week, whereas under this bill, should the price index number rise to 1001, the rate of pension would be £1 ls. 6d. a week. Should it rise to 1005, the pension would become  £1  2s. a week. Furthermore, comparing the purchasing power of the new maximum rate of pension with the maximum rate existing in October, 1925, a pensioner will now be able to buy (with his pension of £1 ls. goods which would have cost £1 ls. lid. in October, 1925, when his pension was only £1 a week. This comparison is based on the comparative price index numbers, all items series, namely, 1001 and 959. 
A special feature of the bill 13 that provision is made for a determination of the maximum rate of pension to be made in each quarter, according to the price index number for the quarter immediately preceding such determination. If sufficient variation has occurred iu the price index number, the new maximum rate of pension will become operative from the first instalment payable in the next succeeding quarter. Thus, the variations of the rate of pension will, so fac as practicable, keep pace with the variations of the cost of living. The previous legislation of this nature, which was in force from 1933 to 1937, provided only for annual determination of the pension rate based on the index number for the twelve months ending on the 31st March in each year. The effect was that the variations of pension lagged behind the variations of the cost of living. The present bill is thus a definite improvement on the former legislation in that respect. 
The retention of the existing margins of permissible income in connexion with the present increase from £1 to £1 ls. a week has already been referred to. These margins, namely, l'2s. 6d. a week in the case of pensioners other than permanently bind persons, and £3 7s. 6d. a week in the case of blind persons, will also be preserved with every variation of the pension on the changes in price index numbers. 
Provision i3 made in the bill for pensioner inmates of benevolent asylums and hospitals to receive an increase of 6d. a week in the amount of 6s. a week which they at present receive as institutional pension. Possibly it will be contended that the full increase of ls. a week, which pensioners outside institutions are now to receive, should also be paid to those who are in institutions. It will be recognized, however, that the payments made to pensioners in institutions are scarcely in the same category as the pension payments made to persons outside, who have to provide from the pension money the full cost of their maintenance. In the case of inmates of institutions, the cost of maintenance is borne almost entirely by the institution, and the pension payment made to the inmate is practically in the nature of pocket money, which enables him to purchase tobacco and other comforts which may not always be provided by the institution. 
In this connexion, it will be of interest to mention the changes in the amounts paid to inmates of institutions since these payments were commenced in 1916. They are as follows : - 
It will be noted that, in 1920, the institutional pension of 2s. a week represented only 13 per cent, of the full pension, which was then 15s. a week, whereas the present institutional pension of 6s. a week represents 30 per cent, of the full pension of 20s. a week. The new rate of 6s. 6d. a week represents 31 per cent, of the new maximum pension rate of 21s. a week. 
Furthermore, pensioner inmates of hospitals are given a special privilege in that the pension for the first 28 days of the period in hospital is preserved intact for the pensioner, and paid to him in full on  his discharge. For this period the hospital receives nothing from the Commonwealth. After 28 days, the hospital is paid 14s. a week, i.e., the balance of the pension over the amount of 6s. a week paid to the pensioner. Similar payments are made to benevolent asylums in respect of pensioners admitted, but in these cases the payments of 6s. a week to the pensioner and 14s. a week to the institution, commence from the first pension pay-day after the date of admission. 
After careful consideration of all aspects of this matter, the Government has decided that pensioner inmates of institutions will be very fairly treated if given up to half the amount of any increase paid to pensioners outside. The bill, therefore, provides for the pensioner inmates of institutions to receive half the present increase of ls. a week and, within the discretion of the Minister, up to half of any further general increase which may result from a rise in the price index number. This discretionary power operates conversely, so that, in the event of a decrease of the ordinary pension following a. fall of the price index number, the Minister may, in his discretion, decide that the pensioner inmate shall not be required to bear any portion of the decrease. 
The amendments effected by the bill are to apply to the fortnightly instalment of pensions due on the 26th December, but pensioners will actually receive the increased 'payments on the 19th December, owing to the special arrangements for payment a week earlier on account of the Christmas holidays. 
Honorable senators on both sides of the chamber will agree, I think, that this bill is more welcome than most of those with which wc have had to deal in the last few days. I notice with some pride that the Minister  (Senator Foll),  in the second-reading speech which he has just concluded, was able to say that the pension to be paid to invalid and old-age pensioners will now be higher than at any other time since its inception. We are all glad of that. So far as the Opposition is concerned - and I believe I may also say it of honorable senators opposite - there is a tinge of regret that it was not possible to make the pension somewhat higher. However, I trust that it will be recorded to the credit of the three parties which took part in the negotiations, that the rate of pension has been increased. Honorable senators will agree that it would have been very gratifying to us all if, before we adjourned for the Christmas recess, we could have sent forth the glad tidings to the pensioners that the increase was a little more than ls. a week. However, that cannot be done; we must accept the position as it is and be glad that wc are now able to say that the pension will be higher than ever before. I am delighted that provision has been made in the bill that as the cost of living rises the pension will rise proportionately by 6d. a week in accordance with the formula explained by the Minister. It is gratifying to know that we have also been able to safeguard the interests of the pensioners to the extent that the amount of their pension will not, in any circumstances, fall below 21s. a week. I support the bill. 
.- The one sad feature about the budget is that we have not been able to induce the Government to increase by more than ls. a week the pension paid to invalid and aged persons. The platform of the Labour party is clear on the point that their pension should not be less than £1 a week. That amount represents about one-third of what many spend each week in pocket money. Out of their meagre pittance the pensioners have to provide for rent, food, and clothing, and all the medical attention which their increasing years render necessary. When we hear the Minister  (Senator Foll)  say that the granting of this concession will cost the Government £900,000 pei1 annum, we are reminded that other and better organized sections of the community are able to squeeze both parties and collect millions of pounds from the government in assistance of various kinds. By these means wheatgrowers have received no less than £14,000,000 during the last five years. Only a few days ago the apple and pear acquisition scheme was dropped after incurring a loss of £750,000. Although we have to honour the agreement arrived at between our representatives and the representatives of the Government who dealt with the rate of pension to be paid, I trust that at the very earliest opportunity the position of invalid and old-age pensioners will be reviewed. Some people say that they have no sympathy with the old-age pensioners be cause in their earlier years they were not thrifty and made no provision for their old age. Everyone knows that the wages paid in Australia are sufficient only to provide food and clothing and a place in which to sleep. I hold no brief for any particular section of the community, but the party to which I belong cannot ignore the just demands of the 330,000 pensioners, who, with their relatives, represent a voting strength of 1,000,000. Although I loyally support the compromise agreement arrived at in this matter, in future I shall do my utmost to see that the invalid and old-age pensioners are treated more fairly. I conclude by saying that although the pension rate is to be only £1 ls., it will be higher than the rate paid in any country in the world with the exception of New Zealand, where a man and his wife may each receive a pension of £1 10s. a week even though they own their own home. Such liberality is made possible by the fact that all sections of the community in New Zealand pay a flat tax out of which the cost of social services is met. I visualize the day when this Government, if it remains in power, or the Labour party, if it holds the reins of government, will treat with greater liberality those who have borne the heat and burden of the day and who, through no fault of his own, are compelled to apply for a pension. 
I welcome the bill. My only regret is that the pension is not to be increased to £1 5s. a week. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are obliged to support the bill because it provides an increase, even though it is only ls. a week. We have been able to provide huge amounts for the assistance of other sections of the community. Last year, this Parliament voted approximately £11,000,000 for the relief of wheatgrowers which may never be repaid, and £750,000 has been expended in connexion with an apple and pear acquisition scheme which benefited fruit-growers in all States. If we can afford to make such handsome provision for other sections of the community, we should also be able to increase the pension for aged and invalid people to £.1 5s. a week. 
I agree that the Government has improved the position of the invalid and old-age pensioners by the introduction of this bill. Is it an improvement to which they are entitled? The majority of these old-age pensioners helped substantially to create the great wealth of this country, but all that they receive in return, in the shape of pension, provides merely for subsistence. Paradoxical though it may seem, the harder they worked and the more wealth they created - particularly after the introduction of machinery in industry and improved methods of manufacture - the less they received proportionately. In the days of the craftsman the time required for the making of a table, for instance, would be ample to-day for the manufacture, by modern methods, of at least two tables. After they are worn out, having given of their best in the service of commerce and industry, we pay to them the bare cost of the necessaries of life. In the autumn of their lives they probably require more medical services and other necessities than they did in the days when their health and strength was not impaired. The rate of pension should be computed with the basic wage as a minimum; instead it is measured by the lowest amount necessary to sustain life, and the pensioners are expected to be thankful. Some people, who patronize the old-age pensioners, say that we are giving to them something which we are really not entitled to give. The actual truth is that we are giving to them only a negligible quantity of the wealth that they helped to produce. When we point with pride to the progress that has been made in this country, to our palatial buildings, and to our modern public utilities, we should not forget that the oldage pensioners helped to pioneer these achievements. 
Yes. I can remember when workers were paid no more than that wage. Whatever is given to the pensioners is given grudgingly instead of in a spirit of generosity and appreciation for their labours on behalf of the nation. Men who occupy high positions of political authority base their beliefs on the assumptions and categories which make it impossible for them to understand the outlook of honorable members on this side of the chamber in connexion with pensions. Therefore, I regard it as my duty to point out, whenever possible, that the old-age pensioners have a very much stronger claim to recognition than the Government accords to them. A case I have in mind relates to a Scotsman, 72 years of age, who worked on the wharfs in Melbourne for 35 years, during which time he, and thousands of his fellow workmen, helped to build up enormous fortunes for the shipping companies. Recently he found that it was impossible for him to stand up to the rigours of his work and was obliged reluctantly to apply for a pension. That was due to the fact that, during his long period of service to the shipping companies, his wages had not been sufficient for him to put aside savings which would have made him independent of outside help in his old age. Surely it is not too much to ask of the Government, and others in responsible positions, that they take a more generous view of the position of old-age pensioners. Instead of assessing the rate of pension at the lowest possible amount, they should try to assess it on the basis of the maximum amount which the country can pay. These old people are the human elements behind the wealth with which we are surrounded to-day. This building, the palatial offices in our capital cities, and our shipping and railway services are examples of their achievements. The bill provides for an improvement of the circumstances of invalid and old-age pensioners, but certainly not the improvement to which they are entitled. 
This bill is a step in the right direction, but I would have been very much more pleased than I am had the increase proposed been a little greater. A rate of 22s. 6d. a week would have been reasonable; that would have provided a man and wife in receipt of pensions with a joint income of £2 5s.a week. Taking into consideration the cost of the necessaries of life to-day. the increase of1s. is not very helpful. I know from experience that public subscriptions are often raised in order to assist pensioners whose incomes cannot provide them with the services which they need. Nevertheless, this measure is something of which we should be proud. It is a gift; it is not paid in response to a demand as are the taxes which have been agreed to by Parliament within the last few weeks. I hope that the Government will endeavour to increase the rate of the old-age pension to 22s. 6d. a week or more. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 by leave  - I have to announce to the Senate that  Senator the  Honorable H. S. Foll, Minister for the Interior, has been appointed Minister for Information in succession to the Right Honorable R. G. Menzies, resigned. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the following paper  (vide  page 1109):- 
The Budget.1940-41 - Supplementary statement and papers. 
Ordered to be printed. 
In moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to extend, to you,  Mr. President,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  all honorable senators, and officers of the Senate, the compliments of the season and best wishes for the New Year. On this occasion, it is fitting that. I should make special reference to one of our distinguished members in the person of  Senator Grant,  who has been prevented by illness from attending the sittings of the Senate during this period of the session; and also I pay a special tribute to  Senator Wilson,  who has left Australia with the Australian Imperial Force. I am sure that I shall meet the wishes of all honorable senators if I communicate with  Senator Wilson  and extend to him our best wishes. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear! 
As we are about to disperse for the Christmas recess under the clouds of war, it is natural that our thoughts and prayers should, go out to all members of the Australian and British forces who are risking their lives in our interests. I am sure that we all feel that 1941 will be a difficult year. Evidence is not lacking that our people as a whole, who fully appreciate the sacrifices now being made by the people of Great Britain, are firmly resolved to do all in their power to bring the war to a successful conclusion. 

 Senator COLLINGS (QueenslandLeader of the Opposition) (5.6]. - I join with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  in the kind thoughts which he has just expressed, and particularly in his wish for your health and happiness,  Mr. President.  The Opposition wholeheartedly approves of the Minister's remarks regarding _  Senator Grant  and  Senator Wilson.  I am proud of the fact that the Opposition has provided a pair for  Senator Grant  during the whole of the time he has been unable, owing to illness, to attend the sittings of the Senate.  Senator Grant  has been profuse in his expressions of gratitude to me as Leader of the Opposition for our action in that respect. I am also proud of the fact that when  Senator Wilson  bade farewell to honorable senators to go on active service, the Opposition unhesitatingly agreed to his request that we provide  a  pair for him. We shall continue to do so until he returns to our midst. 
We know that the coming year will be  a  most difficult one for the  Government.  I feel sure that all members of this Parliament, without exception, will endorse the opinion expressed by the Leader of the Senate, that we are determined to do  all  in our power to bring the war to  a  successful conclusion. The Opposition extend to you,  Mr. President,  to all honorable senators, and officers of the Senate its best wishes for the coming year. We also tender seasonal greetings to the members of the  Hansard  staff, whose duties during the last few days have been unusually strenuous. To them the recess will bring  a  well-earned respite. 
.- Appertaining to my remarks on the adjournment of the Senate last night, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has assured me that he desired in no way to reflect upon the democratic principles upon which the Returned Sailors and .Soldiers Imperial League of Australia is founded. I am sure that lie recognizes as I do that during the present crisis the league is a bulwark against Fascism or any other disruptive influence. I accept the honorable senator's assurance in the spirit in which he conveyed it to me. 
 On behalf of the members of the Country party in this chamber, 3 convey Christmas greetings and every good wish for the new year to you,  Mr. President,  members of the Ministry, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and the other members of  the  Opposition, the parliamentary officers, the  Mansard  staff, and the members of other staffs connected with the work of this chamber. All honorable senators  realize  that this year has been a difficult period for the various staffs associated  with the work of Parliament. The mailmatter of members has very largely increased, and, no doubt, the officials have had to cope with a far greater volume of work than ever before. Each of the parliamentary staffs has been of the greatest assistance to honorable senators during the year. The  Hansard  staff, as usual, has discharged its duties in a most efficient way. 

 .- I congratulate you,  Mr. President,  on the manner in which you have discharged your duties. We have all received generous treatment from you, and we thank you. We are also highly appreciative of the work of the officers of the Senate and of the  Hansard  staff. This year has been one of the most momentous in the history of Australia, and certainly in the history of the Labour Movement. During the nation's greatest crisis we have witnessed a change in the policy of the Labour party. It has entered into an arrangement with the Government, which is formed of parties to which it is politically opposed, and it has closed its own ranks in the interests of the nation. I trust that we shall all experience a happy Christinas, and that, when we return to our duties next year the international outlook will have improved considerably. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I thank honorable senators for their good wishes, which I heartily reciprocate. We are indebted to the officers of the Senate for their untiring energy, courtesy aud willingness to help us in every possible way. I also thank the members of the  Hansard  staff for their loyalty and willing co-operation. I am particularly pleased that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  referred to Senators Grant and Wilson, and I shall see that the sentiments expressed by them are conveyed to those honorable senators. I extend my best wishes for a happy Christinas and a prosperous new year to all. I hope that the war will soon be won, and ' that we shall meet in the near future under happier auspices. 
On the 10th December,  Senator Brand  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army the following question,  upon notice - 
What are the daily rates of pay for the private soldier in the British Army, the Australian Imperial Force, the Canadian Expeditionary Force and the New Zealand Expeditionary Force? 
What allowances do the wives and children of members of each force receive? 
The Minister for the Army has now furnished the following replies to the honorable senator's question: - 

<graphic href="165332194012134_31_9.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
