It is with regret that I inform honorable senators of the death of  a  former member of the House of Representatives,  Mr. David  Sydney Jackson, who died in Launceston, Tasmania, on the 28th February last. The late  Mr. Jackson  was elected to the House of Representatives for the Division of Bass in 1919, and again in 1922, 1925 and 1928. He was  a  member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works from May, 1921, to October, 1925, and from February to 'September in 1929. He was also  a  member of the Sectional Committee of the Public Works Committee on Northern Territory matters in 1922. In 1928 he visited Canada as a member of the Commonwealth delegation of the Empire Parliamentary Association. I extend to his widow our deepest sympathy, and I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret  at  the death of  Mr. David  Sydney Jackson, a  former member of the House of Represen tatives for the Division of Bass, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow in her bereavement. 
I had not the privilege of acquaintance with the deceased gentleman, but, having heard his excellent record stated by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay),  I desire to associate every member of the Opposition with the remarks of the Minister. It is more than fitting that we should pay our tribute of respect to the memory of deceased members of this Parliament, who have rendered good public service that too often is not recognized until they are no longer with us. The Opposition supports the motion, and desires its condolences to be forwarded to the widow of the deceased. 
The members of the Country party in the Senate desire to be associated with this motion. I knew the late  Mr. Jackson  during the whole of the period of about nine years when he was a member of the House of Representatives. He was a very active member, and was associated with various parliamentary committees, one of which investigated Northern Territory problems and submitted a valuable report. The Country party offers its sympathy to  Mrs. Jackson,  and considers that a good man has gone to his long rest. 
I also support the motion. I knew the late  Mr. J  Jackson  for many years before he became a member of this Parliament. I knew him to be a great Australian, who took a leading part in many phases of public life. He was a keen protectionist, and in that capacity he served Australia well. During the time he was a member of the Parliamentary Public Works Committee he did a great deal of publicity work for Australia. He displayed lantern slides throughout Tasmania, and .thus made the mainland of Australia better known to the people of his native State. The whole of. the proceeds of these lectures were devoted to the Bush Nursing Association. His work in the interests of charitable organizations in Tasmania was well known. Apart from his practical interest in the Bush Nursing Association, he was actively associated with the Musical Competitions Association, and his work in the interests of music generally was greatly appreciated throughout the State. Above all, he was a good employer. He brought no political pressure to bear upon his own employees, but paid them better than award rates. In my opinion, he was one of the best employers and one of the best citizens Launceston has produced. He was a very courageous gentleman, and his loss will be keenly felt in Tasmania as well as throughout Australia. 
I desire to be associated with this motion. The late  Mr. Sydney  Jackson was a close personal friend of mine. When he visited the Northern Territory it was my pleasure to be in his company, and I am able to testify that what  Senator Lamp  has said is perfectly true. The deceased gentleman was a big Australian in every sense of the word. He was instrumental in having the work being done in Central and Northern Australia by the Australian Inland Mission recognized by the government of the day.  Mr. Jackson  died at an early age. We thought he had many years of useful service ahead of him. I place on record my tribute to his memory and offer my condolence to his widow. 
I support the motion. The late 

 Mr. Jackson was well.known to most of us, and particularly to members of the House of Representatives, where for many years he most ably represented the Division of Bass. He was also an excellent representative of his native State as a whole. In addition to his work as a member his services were greatly appreciated by the people in his electorate, and in the city of Launceston, of which he was an excellent citizen. He was associated with most movements in that city which had for their object the welfare of the people, and, as has already been stated, he was an admirable employer. He was an enterprising business man, and the city of Launceston is the poorer for his passing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - I desire formally to inform the Senate that, in connexion with the departure overseas of the Right Honorable R. G. Menzies, the Honorable A. W. Fadden was appointed Acting Prime Minister . and Acting Minister for Defence Co-ordination. During the absence of  Mr. Menzies,  the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  and the Minister for Supply and Development and Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  are to be members of the War Cabinet. I wish also to inform honorable senators that, in addition to the duties previously performed by them, the Honorable T. J. Collins is to assist the Postmaster-General, and  Senator the  Honorable J. W. Leckie is to assist the Minister for the Army.  Senator Leckie  will also represent the Minister for Health and Social Services in the Senate. 
I have to announce to the Senate that I have received from  Mrs. E.  M. Abbott a letter of thanks and appreciation for the motion of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of  Colonel Percy  Phipps Abbott, C.M.G., V.D. 
Can the Minister  for Supply and Development inform me what has been the percentage reduction of petrol in each of the States under the Petrol Rationing Scheme? 
I shall not be in a position for some time to answer that question. Honorable senators will understand that whilst it is competent for me to give a percentage reduction on the licensed gallonage, it is impossible to say what the actual reduction will be until the expiration of the current tickets. 

 Later: 

Will the Minister for Supply and Development ascertain which States have and those which have not effected the savings of petrol contemplated under the original petrol rationing scheme, and use the figures so obtained as the basis for the new scheme? 
The Commonwealth Government cannot introduce one scale of rationing for one State, and a different scale for another State. It is not proposed to alter or vary the classifications as between the States, but full consideration will be given to the needs of individual users. 
Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether officers of the Investigation Branch of the Attorney-General's Department have had occasion at any time to investigate the alleged alien affiliations of a  Mr. Lewis  who has gone to Delhi as secretary to the Commonwealth Delegation under  Sir Bertram  Stevens? Can he state whether  Mr. Lewis  was appointed to this post by the Commonwealth Government or privately by  Sir Bertram  Stevens? By whom is  Mr. Lewis'  salary being paid? 
 I shall bring the honorable senator's question under the notice of the Attorney-General. 
In view of the announcement that it is the Government's intention to build a military highway between Mount Isa and Tennant Creek, can the Minister for the Interior say whether it is also the intention of the Government to build a main military highway to connect South Australia and Western Australia? 
The question of the construction of military highwaysis under the consideration of the Department of the Army. 
Would the Minister for Information be prepared to make available to honorable senators requiring them copies of all articles prepared for publication by the Department of Information between the 19th February and the 10th March, inclusive? 
It would be almost impossible to do so, in view of the large number of articles produced, but if the honorable senator desires copies of any particular articles, I shall be glad to let him have them. 
Oan the Minister for Information indicate briefly to the Senate the major changes in the Department of Information which have taken place since he assumed control of the department? Has information about the war become more or less limited since the honorable senator became Minister for Information ? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy tell me whether the Government has given effect to the promise made by the former Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  that consideration would be given to the question of building motor torpedo boats to guard the Australian coastline? Is the Government aware that facilities exist- in Queensland for that work? 
The honorable senator could hardly expect me to give details as to the types of naval vessels which are being constructed, but I assure him that the Government has this matter well in hand and avails itself of all facilities which exist for naval construction in Australia. 
Will the honorable senator supply me with his name? 
Is the Minister for Supply and Development aware that several plants equipped with lathes and tools capable of making munitions are now idle in Western Australia? If so, will he utilize those plants for defence purposes. 
I am not aware that that position exists. In each State we have a Board of Area Management, whose function is to ascertain the engi neering capacity in the States. I assure the honorable senator that our requirements are so great that any unused plant capable of producing munitions will be employed. 
'Can the Minister for Supply and Development inform me whether the argument has been settled between the Department of Supply and Development and the Department of the Interior as to who should do the wiring for the electricity supply at the Oatlands flax mill ? If it has been settled, has the wiring been done, and is the mill in operation ? 
I do not know of any such argument. 
It is not the function of the Department of Supply and Development to do any wiring, although it may be its duty to supply wire. 
I shall be glad to place the honorable senator's question before my colleague. 
I have not received any representations in that regard. A request by the State Government would be made to the Acting Prime Minister. I shall inquire into the matter and advise the honorable senator. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army whether it is not a fact that the Government is finding great difficulty in expending money already appropriated for defence purposes? Is it not also a fact that many soldiers, instead of being trained for the defence of this country, are engaged on work that could be done by navvies? If the Government is finding difficulty in expending money, will it see that some of it is expended in the employment of men who are now workless? 
A general survey is being made by a committee representative of the various parties in Parliament in order to ascertain how more of the labour available in Australia can be utilized for war work. I have no knowledge of soldiers, either in the Militia or in the Australian Imperial Force, doing work which, as the honorable senator suggests, might be done by navvies, but the training of soldiers often entails work of various kinds which forms a portion of their training. The lag in expenditure has resulted from various causes. Unfortunately, there has been delay in production, owing in some cases to industrial difficulties, but that is not responsible for the lag. In addition, there has been a considerable scarcity of skilled men, not only for munitions work, but also in connexion with our construction programme. Difficulty has also been experienced in obtaining supplies of certain materials owing to the shipping problem. The result has been that expenditure on defence works has not been maintained at the rate anticipated. I can assure the honorable senator that the Government regards it essential that money should be expended wisely instead of expending it merely for the sake of doing so. However, the lag to which the honorable senator has referred is being overtaken rapidly, and many of the minor difficulties responsible for a delay in production are being overcome. 
The suggestion of the honorable senator will be considered. 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development state whether a survey has been made to ascertain the number of technicians in the Navy, Army and Air Force? In view of the statement of the Minister for the Interior a few moments ago that there is a shortage of skilled men, I should like to know whether action has been taken to release technicians from the services mentioned in order to increase the production of munitions? 
That matter is considered by the Man-Power Committee which functions in connexion with recruiting for the three services. It is the responsibility of that committee to ascertain whether recruits are in reserved occupations. Instead of there being a surplus of technicians in the Navy, Army and Air Force, the Government has had to train men for those services. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state whether the Apple and 
Pear Marketing Board has yet presented its report and balance-sheet on the marketing of last season's crops? If not, when is it expected that the report will be made available to honorable senators ? 
The report has not yet been presented, but I shall ascertain the exact position in that regard. 
asked the Minister  representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister explain what is meant by using the national credit within the limit of safety? 
Why does the Government not follow the finding of the Royal Commission on Banking and use the national credit to the full productive capacity of the nation? 
The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : - 
.  It is not customary to make statements of policy in answers to questions. I would refer the honorable senator, however, to the full statements contained in the budget speeches and financial statements made since the outbreak of war. 
A reading of the report of the Royal Commission on Banking does not disclose a finding in the terms referred to 'by the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What is the total cost of administering the Commonwealth Grants Commission for 1938-39 and 1939-40? 
What is the personnel of the Commonwealth Grants Commission and what salary is paid to each member? 
The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answers : - 
The cost of the Commonwealth Grants Commission for the years 1938-39 and 1939-40 was as follows: - 

<graphic href="166332194103121_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, members receive a fee of £55s. for each day upon which they attend meetings of the commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What percentage of Tasmania's total trade for 1939-40 was interstate trade? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has furnished the following answer: - 
The proportion of the interstate trade of Tasmania to the total trade of that State measured by value in 1939-40 was approximately as follows: - 

<graphic href="166332194103121_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

 In directing the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  to the position of the fat lamb industry in Australia, I should like to learn whether the Government has taken any action to safeguard the industry. The matter is serious because shipping space for export is greatly restricted, and further it is intended, I understand, to reduce the export of fat lambs by about 20 per cent.- The industry has been established for many years and action by the Government is urgently needed to prevent the industry from getting into a chaotic condition. If shipping space is to be further restricted, the Government should ensure that each State and each exporting firm is allotted a fair quota of the space made available. Pools have been established in the interests of the wheat-growers and the growers of apples and pears, and I suggest that the Government should take similar action to protect the small producers, as the large producers of fat  lambs  could, because of their larger holdings, go back to wool production. This could  not  be done by the small holders. If Government action is not taken,  the  small producers will not be able to dispose of their fat lambs, which represent their means of livelihood, and probably the chaotic condition into which the industry will drift will encourage speculation. The present serious situation of  the fat lamb  industry is  not  peculiar to Western Australia. The situation is serious in other States, and I am sure that the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  realizes the need for the Government to assist the producers in South Australia. The port of Albany in Western Australia has practically been carried on by holders of small areas who have embarked on the raising of fat lambs for export, but they are unable to convert to wool-growing because of the small acreage  of  their holdings. Most of the small land holders in  Western  Australia  who  have adapted themselves to the export trade will soon find themselves in a precarious situation unless prompt action is taken by the Government. 
I suggest the establishment of a  pool.  The honorable senator may  not  agree with that suggestion, but if he can submit a more practicable proposal I shall give it favorable consideration. I hope that the Minister for Commerce  will  make a statement on this subject. 
 There will be serious consequences in Western Australia if action is not taken by the Government to improve the present condition of the fat lamb industry caused by the shortage of shipping. Western Australia is not as far advanced in the export of fat stock as are the other States, and consequently the exporters in that State are not sufficiently strong financially to withstand the strain which no doubt is being placed upon them, and which will become heavier in the next few months because I consider that the shipping situation will become worse before it improves. The financial resources of the smaller concerns in Western Australia, which have been killing and storing carcass meat for export, must be near breaking point. T suggest that the Government should consider the advisableness of providing these concerns with financial accommodation at a low rate of interest so as to enable them to hold carcass meat until a larger volume of shipping is made available. The holding of carcass meat in Western Australia is becoming increasingly difficult. The refrigeration space available for storage is limited, and, unless the shipping situation is relieved appreciably, much more refrigeration space will have to be provided. Western Australia is now producing a large quantity of export pork which I do not think will see a ship's hold for many months. The people who are putting their energy into this industry should receive some financial consideration, apart from the provision of increased refrigerated space. A large number of workmen are dependent upon this industry for a livelihood. I hope that the Minister will pay heed to the remarks of  Senator Fraser,  and see that further assistance is given to the meat export industry in Western Australia. 
.- In my opinion, the growers of muttion will have to take this matter into their own hands to some extent. The Government may be able to store a quantity of mutton and lamb, but, after a certain period, the meat deteriorates. The only remedy is for the growers to produce fewer fat lambs and to pay more attention to the production of wool. 
Unfortunately, many of the big pastoralists are turning th&lt; ir attention to the production of fat lambs, whereas previously they grew sheep for wool. If the large pastoralists enter the meat industry, as they are largely doing in Victoria, they will destroy the fat-lamb trade, and with it cause the ruin of the small grower. It seems to me that Western Australia will have to do as the Victorian Government has done, and assist the fat-lamb growers. 
That should be done, and I believe that the Commonwealth Government is co-operating with the- State authorities in the provision of additional cold-storage space. 
When the Government finds difficulty in exporting fat lambs, mutton, beef, pork, or any other necessary commodity, I suggest that it should take into serious consideration the necessity for increasing the purchasing power of the consumers in Australia. Many thousands of unemployed men and women could, if their purchasing power were increased, buy more of those commodities, and would be glad to do so. Awards of the Arbitration Court, however, indicate a  reduc-tion  of purchasing power, and, owing to the operations of the Prices Commissioner, the workers generally find themselves unable to purchase as many of those commodities as they could before the declaration of war. In addition to meat which cannot be exported, and is likely to deteriorate in cold storage, we find that thousands of bushels of apples and pears are being destroyed because of the lack of purchasing power on the part of the consumers. I submit that we cannot successfully increase production unless the necessary provision is made for increased consumption, particularly when we find ourselves unable to export to overseas countries. The question to be decided, finally, is whether surplus meat and fruit shall be destroyed, whether production shall be restricted or whether the purchasing power of consumers shall be increased. These are matters which the Government should take into consideration. 
I draw the attention of the Government to the necessity for an equitable distribution of defence work throughout Australia. Although boards of management have been appointed in the various States to control the work already in progress, the less populous States are not receiving as many contracts as they could undertake. For many months I have been considering this matter, and I suggest that a committee consisting of one representative from each of the States, who knows what his State can do, should he established in either Sydney or Melbourne, in order to ensure that the States mentioned will be provided with defence work within their capacity. By this means, a satisfactory distribution of munitions and other contracts could be affected, and this would help to placate dissatisfied States. 
 in reply  - On behalf of the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  I assure Senators Fraser, Gibson and Cameron, that the subject of the shipment of frozen meat overseas is receiving the close attention of the Government. Of course, owing to the lack of shipping facilities, it is not possible to export meat on the same scale as previously, and, consequently, steps have been taken, in collaboration with the State authorities, to extend the cold-storage accommodation in each of the States. As  Senator Gibson  has pointed out, there is a limit to the period for which meat can be stored satisfactorily. It would be unwise for us to drift into the position that obtained after the last war, when, on account of the large quantity of meat held in storage for a considerable period, we were forced to sell meat of inferior quality overseas. It has been represented to me that that inferior meat had a most detrimental effect on the Australian meat trade for many years, and every effort should be made to avoid a repetition of the mistake that occurred after the last war. It is inevitable, as has been suggested by  Senator Gibson,  that there must be a transference from fat lamb raising to wool production. The whole of our output of wool has been sold for the duration of the war and one year afterwards, and producers would be well advised to avoid the production of a commodity for which it will be difficult to find purchasers in the immediate future. 
As to the equitable allocation of the available space among individual growers, as suggested by  Senator Fraser,  I shall take that matter up with the Minister for Commerce, and see what can be done about it. It is not so easy as honorable senators may imagine to effect such an arrangement, because at present the bulk of the lambs are not exported on behalf of growers, but are bought at auction in the open market by meat exporters. Consequently it is not known at present what proportion of any yarding of lambs, or what proportion of a particular consignee's yarding, is exported or used in the local trade. 
That matter also will be considered. 

 Senator Cameron has, as usual, based his argument on false premises. He said that, since the war, the purchasing power of the workers has actually decreased, but he knows that that is an absolute inaccuracy. 
Since the war, the wage fund of the workers has increased substantially, and so has their purchasing power. We have heard the views of the honorable senator on this matter on many occasions, and he is consistent, in that he rarely adheres to facts, when making a speech in this chamber. 
I appreciate the concern of  Senator Clothier  with regard to the distribution of munition and other work among the various States, and I am prepared to take into consideration the suggestion that he has made; hut I repeat, for his information, that in each State there is a board of area management composed of industrialists in that State, whose duty it is to advise the Munitions Director of the engineering and other capacity of that State. I had the privilege of discussing the position in Western Australia a few days ago with the  chairman  of the area board of management in that State. 
But the area board of management is also in a position to advise the Government of the capacity of the various States for defence work. The problem is not one of finding work for existing capacity, but of finding engineering capacity to do the work required. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received from the relatives of the late Honorable Henry Gregory a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of his death. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received from  Mrs. G.  Carter a letter of thanks and appreciation  for  the resolution  of  sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death  of  Dr. W.  R. N. Maloney. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce aware that the agreement made in connexion with the sale of the whole of the Australianwool clip to the Government of the United Kingdom, regarding the scouring in Australia of enough wool to keep the various wool scours operating to normal capacity, is not being observed? Does he know that, in consequence  of  this, a considerable amount of unemployment has occurred in this branch  of  industry? Will he take immediate steps to have this serious position remedied? 
I am unaware that the facts are as stated by the Leader of the Opposition. My impression was that thewool scourswere operating on a scale greatly in excess of the pre-war standard. I shall endeavour to obtain further information on the matter for the honorable senator. 
In view of the misunderstanding that  appears to have arisen regarding the differentiation in prices charged to manufacturers for wool processed for local use as against that processed for export, does the Minister consider it desirable that a statement should bo made in order to clarify the position? 
Will the Minister for the Interior state whether the sites suggested for the new secretariat buildings to be erected in Canberra conform with the Griffin plan? If not, has the proposal to depart from that plan been submitted to the Parliament, as provided by law? 
The erection of the two temporary buildings which are to be constructed between the two existing secretariats at the rear of Parliament House was decided upon by the Government on account of the urgent necessity for additional office accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory. The plans were referred to the National Capital Planning and Development Committee, which was not in favour of the construction of the buildings on the proposed sites ; but the Government decided, despite the opinion of the committee, to proceed with the work owing to the extreme urgency of the matter. 1 emphasize that the committee took no exception to the plans themselves, but did not approve of the erection of the buildings on the sites selected. The growth of departments in Canberra, principally the Department of Commerce and the Trade and Customs Department, has been so rapid during the period of the war that the present accommodation makes efficient work almost impossible in two or three departments. The Government considers, therefore, that, although departure from the Griffin plan in a small detail is undoubtedly involved, it is absolutely necessary in the interests of efficient administration that this extra accommodation shall be provided. These two buildings will bo constructed between existing two secretariats. They will be constructed of brick, and will be of two storeys. In no way will they spoil the general lay-out of Canberra, since the sites to be used have not been allotted for any other purpose. 
The site for that structure is well to the rear of those on which the two new secretariats are to be erected. We may as well face the facts, and realize that the permanent Parliament House is not likely to be constructed for many years. The present Parliament House will serve the requirements of Australia for a long period. I say quite frankly that; by the time this building has outlived its usefulness, and the government of the day has decided to erect a permanent Parliament House, the two temporary secretariats now to be built will have paid for themselves many times. No great loss would be sustained if they then had to be removed. 
Is tho Minister for the Interior aware of the fact that, in proceeding with the erection of the buildings in question, there has been a definite breach of the legal provisions regarding the Griffin plan? Are we to understand that, in view of all that has taken place, the Griffin plan has been finally and definitely abandoned ? Is the Minister aware that foundations for a permanent administrative building already exist, and that upon them extra office accommodation could be provided? Is he also aware that these foundations cost many thousands of pounds, and that they have been lying idle continuously for a long period? Does he know that allegations were made that the foundations, which cost thousands of pounds, were not properly completed, and were, therefore, unsafe, that more money was expended to disprove that assertion, and that the foundations are now perfectly safe. For how much longer does the Government propose to depart from the Griffin plan as it departed from it when it erected the War Memorial at the foot of Mount Ainslie and the King George V. Memorial in the front of Parliament House? Those works constitute the. two most atrocious acts of vandalism so far as the Griffin plan is concerned. 
Order! 
SenatorFOLL. - The Government decided as a matter of extreme urgency to proceed with the construction of these buildings. All that  Senator Collings  has said with regard to the foundations for the main administrative building is correct; and I regret just as much as he does that the construction of that building was not proceeded with on those foundations. That work is estimated to cost between £800,000 and £1,000,000, and to take approximately three years to complete. However, as I have already pointed out, the Government is faced with the problem of providing additional departmental accommodation in Canberra immediately. I feel sure that if  Senator Collings  visited the offices of any of the departments which I have mentioned, he would realize the urgency for providing this extra accommodation. The Government came to the conclusion that this could best be done by erecting temporary buildings on either the site mentioned or on any other site. However, the site chosen is the most convenient in relation to the existing secretariats. My officers advise that it would not be practicable to spend £80,000 on the construction of a small portion on the proposed permanent building. I repeat that the Government has no intention to depart to any great degree from the Griffin plan. 
Is the construction of these temporary buildings likely to have any bearing on the transfer of departments from Melbourne to Canberra? Has their erection in brick received the approval of the National Capital Planning and Development Committee ? 
SenatorFOLL. - Once the Government decided to erect these buildings on this site, the plans were submitted to that committee, and it approved of them. I again make it clear, however, that that committee did not approve of the site. The provision of this extra accommodation will enable us to expedite the transfer of more departments from Melbourne to Canberra. However, our immediate purpose is to provide extra accommodation for the Commerce and Trade and Customs Departments, and the newly-created Department of Labour and National Service, the head-quarters of which the Minister in charge of that department is desirous of establishing in Canberra. 
Is the Minister for Information aware that arrangements to broadcast an address by a member of the British Labour party,  Mr. R.  W. G. Mackay, from station 3LO were cancelled at the last minute ? If he is not aware of the reasons why that arrangement was cancelled, will he inquire into the matter and furnish the Senate with the reason? 
SenatorFOLL. - The speech which  Mr. Mackay  was to deliver over the national stations was submitted in the ordinary way to the censor who excised much of its contents.Whilst  Mr. Mackay  is a member of the British Parliamentary Labour party, he is not a member of the House of Commons. At present he is a candidate for a seat in Somerset. However, the censorship of his speech was not in any way related to his membership of the British Labour party. No question of political censorship entered into the matter at all. After the speech was censored,  Mr. Mackay,  whom I know very well, showed me his script, and asked me what I thought of the censor's excisions. I told him that generally I agreed with them. I thought that whilst the speech could have been useful in certain circumstances, the censor was justified, at the present juncture, in prohibiting reference to certain matters with which it dealt. When  Mr. Mackay  was informed of the excisions he did not think it worthwhile to give the address and, consequently, his broadcast was cancelled. 
Is the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Customs yet in a position to reply to my request for an investigation into statements which I made in this chamber about the increasing cost of gold production, proof of which was given to the Department of Trade and Customs a considerable time ago? 
After having asked this question in the Senate, the honorable senator sent me a long letter about the matter. As soon as I received it, I asked the Prices Commissioner to order an investigation in Western Australia into all the matters referred to. The report of that investigation left Perth on the 7th March, and arrived in Canberra yesterday. I shall give the honorable senator a full reply within a few days. 
Can the Leader of the Senate state why my question about the alleged alien affiliations of  Mr. Lewis,  who has accompanied  Sir Bertram  Stevens to Delhi, which I was asked to place on the notice-paper, does not appear on the notice-paper to-day? 
I told the honorable senator yesterday that I would refer his question to the Attorney-General, which I did this morning. In view of my reply it was not necessary for the question to be placed on the notice-paper. In any case it is not my responsibility to see that the questions of honorable senators appear on the notice-paper. 
Since the Government persists in declaring that there is a serious shortage of petrol in Australia requiring extreme rationing, has the Government given any consideration to the need of a much greater use of producer gas units and the advisability of the manufacture by the Commonwealth of such units as part of the Government's munitions programme? 
The Government has given consideration to the encouragement of the use of gas producer units on trucks in Australia. It is doing many things with the idea of promoting the extension of their use, but it is not considered desirable or necessary that it should, itself, undertake their manufacture. The Government'sexperts,however, do test units that are submitted for testing. Units passed are licensed for sale, but no unit which has not passed the test may be sold to the public in Australia. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce made any recent inquiries into the possibilities of the Netherlands East Indies as a market for Australian fruit, wines and tinned foods? Has the Minister seen recent reports deploring the lack of publicity given to Australian goods in the Netherlands East Indies? Will the Minister take steps to see that every opportunity for the sale of Australian products, particularly fruit and wines in that market, is exploited to the full? 
We have a trade commissioner at Batavia whose duty it is to ascertain what markets there are in the Netherlands East Indies for our commodities, and, so far as I know, he is keeping us well informed on the possibilities in that area. The market for a great number of our products is greater than we can supply at present. Two of the commodities mentioned by the honorable senator are available in sufficient quantities to enable us to export, but supplies of other products are so short that, if there were a market for them, I am afraid we could not supply it. 
I am not aware of the facts, but I shall have inquiries made. 
I shall be glad to give attention to both points raised by the honorable senator. There is a tremendous strain on railway rolling-stock at present, and owing to the fact that the Trans-Australian line is of the standard gauge of 4 ft. in. it is impracticable to obtain additional rolling-stock from other parts of Australia. Some rolling-stock is being built. 
The honorable senator must realize that it is not within my province to make money available. I am merely one of many who appeal to the Treasurer for funds, and I shall gladly do so in connexion with the matters raised by the honorable senator. 
Will the Minister for the Interior consider the desirability of improving housing conditions of the employees engaged on the TransAustralian line? I understand that a. certain amount of money appropriated for that purpose has not been expended, and I should like to know if it is intended to carry out improvements which should be made immediately? 
Can the Minister for the Interior state the attitude of the Government towards the construction of a 4 ft. 8£ in. railway from Broken Hill to Port Pirie as a defence undertaking, in order to provide a standard gauge line between Brisbane, Sydney, Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie ? 
That matter is under the consideration of the Government at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that substantial deliveries of fruit have been authorized by the Apple and Pear Marketing Board and made to cool stores and for Sydney  shipment 
If so, will the Minister state when it will be possible to make payment for such fruit? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
No. Deliveries .of apples and pears to the end of last week totalled only 22,000 cases. 
Arrangements have been made for the immediate payment of advances to growers. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What amount was spent in Tasmania on the manufacture of armaments and/or munitions for the year ended the 30th June, 1940, and what amount is contemplated to be spent for the financial year 1940-1941 t 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows : - 
During the year 1939-1940, armament and munitions production had not extended to Tasmania, and purchases consisted in the main of large quantities of minerals such  as  zinc and copper. 
During the year 1940-1941 it is estimated that the Government will enter into commitments in Tasmania through the Ministry of Munitions for ammunition components and ordnance to the extent of £138.000. In addition, large purchases of copper and zinc will be absorbed in munitions production. It should he pointed out also that plant and equipment will be made available on loan to assist Tasmanian industry in munitions production to the value of approximately £48,000, while direct loans on favorable terms for annexe building will amount to £14,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that since the war started the private banks have taken up £32,000,000 of Government securities and £23,000,000 of treasury-bills, a total of £55,000,000, and that during that time the Commonwealth Bank has reduced ite holding of Government securities by £9,200,000? 
The Treasurer states that inquiries are being made, and that a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will he have placed on the Library table all papers and correspondence between his department and the Hobart Fire Brigades Board, relative to the application for remission of customs duties on fire-fighting equipment purchased by the board? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer : - 
No but the departmental file relating to the matter will be made available to the honorable senator for his perusal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce - 
Is it a fact that additional wool stores for the storage of the Queensland wool clip arc being built in Brisbane? 
If so, what amount of wool is expected to be stored in these extra buildings? 
What is the cost of the storage buildings? 
From what source is the cost of these buildings being provided? 
Will the Government consider the advisability of decentralization in respect of these wool stores by providing storage accommodation in other parts of Queensland? 
The Minister for Commerce has furnished the following answers: - 
Yes. Four stores at Hamilton, near Brisbane. 
The approximate capacity of stores will bc 22.000 bales each. 
The cost will be approximately £6,600 each. 
The money is provided from funds supplied by the United Kingdom Government. 
Storage must be provided by the Central Wool Committee in the most economical manner. 
I direct attention to the unsatisfactory answers given by Ministers in this chamber to questions which I ask. Yesterday, I asked a question, without notice, of the Minister representing the Treasurer, but I had to go to the press to get the information I sought. It is strange that the newspapers can obtain information which I cannot secure from the Treasurer. The question which I asked yesterday, and which I repeated to-day, upon notice, was as follows: - 
Is it a fact that since the war started the private banks have taken up £32,000,000 of government securities and £23,000,000 of treasury-bills, a total of £55,000,000, and that during that time the Commonwealth Bank has reduced its holding of government securities by £9,200,000? 
According to a newspaper the trading banks have taken up £32,000,000 in government securities and £23,000,000 in treasury-bills- a total of £55,000,000. The newspaper report reads - 
This means that trading banks have credited the Government with £55,000,000 against which the Government will draw cheques. In return the Government has lodged with trading banks government securities and treasury-bills for the amount of credit created, and upon which the Government has undertaken to pay interest. 
In order to pay the private trading  banks  interest on this created credit, which rightly belongs to the people, the Government has had to increase the burden of taxation on the masses. 
An honorable senator has the right to ask another honorable senator to give the name of the newspaper from which he is quoting. 
If it is good enough for the private trading banks to accept Government securities and treasury-bills to the extent of £55,000,000 in exchange for private bank credit, what is wrong with the Government lodging the same securities and treasury-bills with the Commonwealth Bank in exchange for the use of the people's own credit, debt free and interest free? 
The  Herald  finance editor also made the astounding statement that while the private tradingbanks increased their holdings of Government securities by £55,000,000 the people's Commonwealth Bank had reduced its holdings of Government securities by £9,200,000. 
When information was sought some time ago in the Federal House regarding the pro portion of loans subscribed by the banks, the information was refused bythe Government, which indicates that it was not desired to let the people know the extent to which the banks had been allowed by the Government to manufacture credit for the purpose of lending to the people at the big " rake off " in interest. Honorable senators were informed some time ago that the flotation of the first war loan of £23,000,000 was to be arranged between the Commonwealth Bank and the private trading hanks. Subsequently, I submitted a question in this chamber asking the Government to state the proportions of the loan subscribed by the Commonwealth Bank and by the private banks. The information was not furnished, but  Mr. Gillespie,  the manager of the Bank of New South Wales stated at the annual meeting of shareholders that the private banks provided the whole of the £23,000,000 raised. I have contended on previous occasions that the whole of this money could have been advanced to the Government by the Commonwealth Bank free of interest. If the money had been provided by the Commonwealth Bank at the same rate of interest as the private banks received for their advances the annual interest bill would have been £600,000. I maintain that that amount could have been saved if the Government had done its duty. If the credits required by the Government were advanced through the Commonwealth Bank at an interest rate of 3¾ per cent., the amount paid in interest would go back to the nation through the revenue of the Commonwealth Bank. I cannot understand why the Government continues to borrow money in this insane way. We have been told that the Menzies Government will borrow £400,000,000 by 1944. Surely the Government should protect the taxpayers by securing interestfree money. On the 21st November last I submitted a proposal to the Government that a clause should be inserted in all government contracts stipulating that successful tenderers must use the Commonwealth Bank to finance their undertakings. I pointed out that this requirement would facilitate a reciprocity which in view of the fact that all profits from the Commonwealth Bank go back to the nation, would bring in a considerable revenue. The Government is spending millions of pounds on contracts, and the adoption of my proposal would bring in a larger revenue every year. Supposing that I, as a manufacturer of clothing, obtained a Government contract for £50,000. If my financial resources did not enable me to finance the contract I should have to borrow from a private trading bank and pay interest at the rate of 6 per cent. I would feel in duty bound to use the nation's bank in order to finance my Government contract. However, the Government took no notice of my proposal. I cannot understand why the Government does not adopt a policy of this nature. 
In view of the fact that the House of Representatives has adjourned and that its members are waiting for honorable senators to attend an informal meeting of members of both Houses I shall not proceed with my speech. I shall discuss the subject further at a later date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Government has, in fact, already assisted in the setting up of some colleges ; but the matter is still under consideration. 
In view of the increased cost of living occasioned by the general rise of prices of all commodities, I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer if the Government will consider raising the amount which pensioners are now allowed to earn to a figure commensurate with the present changed conditions ? 
 I shall bring the honorable senator's suggestion before the Treasurer. 
Has the Leader of the Senate yet received a reply to the question which I asked last week regarding  Mr. Lewis  and his appointment to the staff of the Australian Delegation to Delhi? 
-On the 12th March, the honorable senator asked me, as Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, a question relating to  Mr. Lewis,  who, the honorable senator stated, had  gone to Delhi as secretary to the Commonwealth delegation under  Sir Bertram  Stevens. I have now received the following reply from the Attorney-General : - 
In the first place,  Mr. Lewis  is not secretary to the Australian Delegation to Delhi. He is personal secretary to the leader of the delegation, and was appointed to that temporary office by the Commonwealth.  His  salary will be paid by the Commonwealth. The Investigation Branch has not been asked, nor has it made, at any time, any inquiry into  Mr. Lewis'  affiliations. Even if such an inquiry had been made, the nature of the inquiry would not, in accordance with the established practice, be made public. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will he consider the removal of the 5 per cent. sales tax on insulin? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer : - 
This matter has been listed for consideration by the Parliamentary Committee which, it will be recalled, the Treasurer, on the occasion of the presentation of the budget, intimated would be set up to consider anomalies alleged to exist in the sales tax legislation. It is expected that the committee will be set up at an early date. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
What was the total amount received by the  chairman  and his colleagues on the Commonwealth Grants Commission during the year 1938-39 ? 
The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answer : - 
The salary, fees and travelling allowances paid to each member of the Commonwealth Grants Commission during the financial year 1938-39 were as follows: - 

<graphic href="166332194103191_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the amount the Commonwealth has received from the Gold Tax? 
Has all or part of this tax been allotted to any States? 
Ifso, what is the amount allotted to each State? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers : - 
Gold tax received to 30th June, 1940, amounted to £1,214,621. For the eight months of this financial year to 28th February, 1941, gold tax has amounted to £1,026,059, making the total gold tax received by the Commonwealth £2,240,680. 2 and 3. No part of the gold tax has been allotted to any State. I would mention, however, that £.150,000 was paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the States in August last under the Gold Mining Encouragement Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that in Government institutions in Canberra it is impossible even to see good apples at any price? 
Is it a fact that in every Australian capital city apples are unprocurable at less than 2d. each, and that the New South Wales Government has ordered 10,000 cases of apples which the Director of Marketing admitshe is unable to supply? 
If so, can the Minister inform the Senate just where the reported immense over-supply of apples, causing a serious glut in the market, is located? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
The Department of the Interior provides regular supplies of fresh apples of good quality to all government boardingestablishments , in Canberra. 
No. Apples are procurable in every Australian capital city at less than 2d. each. The Apple and Pear Board has arranged to provide fruit free of charge to the New South Wales Government for distribution to charitable institutions, hospitals, &amp;c. Supplies of fruit to be provided under this scheme are being made available by the board according to requirements. 
The over-supply of apples resulting from the cessation of exports will be located mainly in the States of Tasmania and Western Australia and to a less extent in Victoria and South Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has his notice been drawn to an illustration in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  (11th March) of cases of apples being dumped at Moore Park? 
Instead of dumping such apples, would he take steps to distribute them among the troops or to people who are too poor to buy them ? 
The notice of the Minister for Commerce has been drawn to an illustration in the newspaper mentioned. The illustration and the words accompanying it conveyed the impression that there was at Moore Park a huge dump of apples and that a lorry load of apples was being tipped into the dump. Knowing that, up to the present, only relatively small quantities of apples and pears have come on to the Sydney market, and those of high quality, the Apple and Pear Marketing Board was instructed to investigate the matter. It was found that the load shown in the picture contained an extremely small percentage of apples and, also, that very small quantities indeed of apples have been token from the markets to the dump at Moore Park. Apples rejected for fruit fly and codlin mothare destroyed by boiling at the Municipal Destructor. 
Steps have already been taken to arrange for supplies of apples for the Defence Forces. Substantial quantities of fruit are being donated by the Apple and Pear Marketing Board for distribution to charitable organizations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
When will the Minister be in a position to supply the Senate with an answer to the question asked by  Senator Lamp  on 11th December last with regard to members of Parliament serving in the Forces? 
The Acting Minister for Defence Co-ordination has advised me that a letter containing the information sought by the honorable senator has been despatched to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What are the amounts of the grants by the Commonwealth to the various States for all purposes (excepting those recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission)? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer : - 
The estimated expenditure for 1940-41 for grants by the Commonwealth to the various States is as under: - 

<graphic href="166332194103191_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above figures include £1,000,000 for drought relief and other grants for relief of primary producers, but do not include special grants to South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, as recommended by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. In addition, £750,000 has been provided from revenue for assistance to the apple and pear industry, but as the Apple and Pear Acquisition Scheme is on a Commonwealth-wide basis allocation of this amount amongst States is not practicable. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that £80,000 is to be spent on two temporary secretariat buildings in Canberra ? 
If so, was consideration given to building a portion of the main secretariat building, the foundations of which have been completed for some time past? 
Was any advice tendered to the Government in regard to this matter ? 
If so, what was the nature of the advice? 
The matters mentioned by the honorable senator are now being investigated by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army, upon  notice - 
Has anything yet been done to reduce the fares of soldiers travelling between the mainland and Tasmania when on leave? If not, is anything likely to be done, and if so, when? 
The Minister for the Army has . supplied the following answer: - 
A 15 per cent, reduction in fare is allowed by the shipping company to members of the forces travelling between the mainland and Tasmania when on leave. 
Have any arrangements been made for service men from Flinders Island to travel by aeroplane when on leave from camp to enable them to visit their homes? 
If so, lias travel free of cost, or any substantial reduction in the present fare, been made available to them? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers : - 
Free travel by air is arranged for service men of Flinders Island when proceeding to their homes on p re-embarkation leave if surface transport is unsuitable. 2 and 3. Travelling to Flinders Island on ordinary leave is not free. The Air Lines make a reduction of 10 per cent, on production nf a leave pass. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Was the price of potatoes fixed last year by the Prices Commissioner, or by agreement with the Potato Board, representing tingrowers 7 
What was the price fixed? 
Will the Government use the same machinery to fix a minimum price this year? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers : - 
The maximum prices of potatoes in New South Wales and Queensland were fixed by the Prices Commissioner on 22nd November, 1940. 
Such prices were specified in Prices Regulation Order No. 274. 
The question of the necessity for fixing minimum prices of potatoes is receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice- ^ 
Will the- Minister give consideration to making better provision for the transport of sailors from State to State? 
Is it a fact that on 9th January sailors leaving Western Australia to go to their ship (H.M.A.S.  Hobart)  had no food, and arrangements had to be made to pick up supplies on the way across? 
Is it a fact that many of these men had to sleep on the floor? 
Will lie see that in future when sailors have to report for duty better conditions are arranged for them on trains? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answers : - 
The matter will be fully investigated. 2 and 3. The facts as reported to the Minister are that a large party of rating? wished to travel on leave from Perth ti&gt; eastern States. There was congestion on tinrailways and the department could accept them only on condition that they would not require meals from the (lining car, and that they would travel sitting up. Sufficient food for tinjourney was provided by the Naval authorities, but unfortunately at Kalgoorlie the party had to travel in separate divisions of the train, and all the food remained in one division. Some food was eventually provided from the dining car, and some stores obtained  en route.  The incident is greatly to be regretted and as stated a searching inquiry will be instituted forthwith. 
Yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister reconsider the matter of a further grant for the development of the Wynyard aerodrome? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answer: - 
Certain improvements  of the Wynyard aerodrome are at present being carried out. The Commonwealth has recently provided funds for the acquisition of additional land on the west of the aerodrome, and the State authorities have made £3,000 available from Loan Funds for the preparation of this additional land and the improvement of the exist-in?: landing ground. 
When this work is completed, the aerodrome will be considerably improved and landing dimensions increased. 
For Commonwealth purposes no addition r, improvements are considered to be justified under present conditions, and the Commonwealth does not propose to make a.ny further funds available.  
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill proposes to make several important changes in the constitution and organization of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The amendments to the act relate to the personnel of the commission, the employment of officers and servants, the powers and functions of the commission, and technical services. Before outlining the reasons for the proposed amendments, I shall, for the information of honorable senators, trace the operations of the commission since its inception. The Australian Broadcasting Commission was established under the provisions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act of May, 1932. In order to assess the measure of success achieved by the commission or of the system set up by the act, it is necessary to study the mandate given by Parliament to the commission. The commission was directed to provide and broadcast " adequate and comprehensive programmes"and"to take in the interests of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable programmes ". It was also directed to encourage local talent, and to establish orchestras, choirs and bands in such manner as it thought desirable, but in such a way as to confer the greatest benefit on broadcasting. It was empowered, at its discretion, to issue papers, pamphlets, books, &amp;c.,andto collect news. 
The act, as the quotations made demonstrate, was to provide a public service to be rendered by a comparatively independent commission. Members of Parliament stressed this idealistic aim throughout the debate on the bill in 1932. 
One characteristic statement was that of the present Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  who said - 
The commission should be composed of men possessing qualities which will ensure that broadcasting will be used for not only the entertainment, but also the education of the people. It will have a potent influence on speech. That is most desirable, because slipshod speech connotes slipshod thinking: It will educate the people to an appreciation of the higher classes of music, and instruct them in literary, scientific and general knowledge. It will lend itself to the advancement of industry by disseminating far and wide those processes which from time to time science and expert knowledge are placing at the disposal of our producers. We want a national orchestra in Australia. It will have a direct and powerful influence on the character and spiritual life of our people. We want to encourage native-born talent in drama and music, both vocal and instrumental. 
The late  Mr. W.  A. Holman said- 
The proposed commission is not to prepare a balance-sheet which is to be measured in pounds, shillings and pence. No doubt it will be expected to make broadcasting pay . . . but not by appealing to the most ignorant prejudices of the community and prostituting this new and extraordinarily scientific service to the baser instinct of the poorest, intellectually, of our community . . . This is an opportunity to revitalize the spiritual and intellectual life of the nation ... It is not an organization for selling sausages, but for the sale of ideas and the giving of inspiration. 
Let us see how far these aims have been realized. First, on the practical side, it is interesting to note that during the debate on the bill in 1932, members expressed the hope that some day the number of licences would be doubled. Actually they have 'been more than trebled since the commission was appointed. In 1932 the total number of licences was 369,936; and according to the latest available return the number to-day is 1 ,268,130. The growth in the magnitude of the commission's task is illustrated by the fact that in 1932 there were twelve national stations on the air, broadcasting for a total of about 50,000 hours, and by 1940 there were28 stations broadcasting for a total of 150,000 hours. 
The commission's activities extend over all States of the Commonwealth and, through the medium of shortwave broadcasting, to a number of countries overseas. Every possible type of human interest capable of communication by broadcasting has been provided in the programmes. The variety of this work may be seen by a glance at the following programme analysis given in the commission's annual report: - 
Music of all kinds, serious and light; orchestral, instrumental, vocal, operatic, community singing, dance music, and so on, play productions, including drama, comedy, children's plays, dramatized stories and talks, musical comedy, variety, revues, spoken transmissions over a wide range; general talks, stories for adults and children, talks on social  problems,  technical matters, science and arts,  book  reviews, women's and children's sessions, political talks, running descriptions, and talks about sport, news bulletins and commentaries, and essential services, especially for men on the land, such as weather and market reports, and religious broadcasts. 
A brief reference to the principal departments of the commission will give some idea of the development which has taken place : - 
When the commission was appointed in 1932 there were no full-time orchestras in Australia. The .Sydney studios had a small band of thirteen players and Melbourne fourteen, but there was no opportunity for Australian musicians to obtain regular experience in orchestral playing. Since then the commission has established a full-time orchestra, in each State. Other permanent units include a military band, two dance bands, and two choruses. The number of players in full-time employment is now more than 2S0; 66 others are under regular engagement, and, in addition, about ISO more are engaged  frequently  to augment the orchestras during' the celebrity concert season of seven lo eight months each .year. The commission is the only organization able to give employment to resident musicians on such a scale, and in anything but a casual way. The commission also arranges individual engagements for a large number of Australian artists every year. In the year ended the 30th June, 1940, the number of engagements was 10,230, and the great majority of these were given to Australians. The fees paid in that period to overseas artists, including British, were £26,810, whilst the fees paid to Australian artists were £279,580. The commission has organized many studio and concert tours that provide valuable experience, particularly for young artists, and has brought back to this country for concert and studio engagements a number of Australian artists who have won distinc tion abroad. Auditions are held regularly in all States for all who seek engagements, and out of regard to listeners, a reasonably high standard is demanded. Artists who, although falling short of this standard at the first audition, show promise of better work, are encouraged to present themselves again at a later, date. 
As part of its development work, the. commission believes that it has a responsibility to bring to Australia a reasonable number of outstanding overseas artists, and in this view it has the support of responsible Australian musical bodies and the leaders of the various  conservatoria.  These visits give Australian audiences an opportunity to hear in person some of the world's greatest artists while they are in their prime. Even more important is the valuable stimulus to Australian music and the opportunity given to Australian musicians to work and study under conductors who are acknowledged leaders in the world of music. The commission has not, however, overlooked the need to maintain a proper balance between the number of overseas and local artists. Thus, in the five years 1936-40, approximately four-fifths of the studio and concert tours organized by the commission were arranged for resident artists and Australians returning from abroad. It should also be mentioned that the fees paid to non-British .artists during the year ended the 30th June, 1940, when' offset by concert revenue, were less than 1 per cent, of the commission's licence revenue. 
An important feature of the commission's work has been the organization, in addition to the celebrity orchestral concert season, of young people's concerts, at which no charge is made, and of community symphony concerts in the suburbsof the capital cities, at which all seats are available at prices ranging from ls.; to 2s. The young people's concerts havé been particularly' successful. Last year 26 such concerts were held, the total attendance being about 50,000 boys and girls from 'both State and private schools.' The commission has been active in assisting Australian composers by arranging performances of their works and by bringing them to the notice of visiting celebrity artists from' abroad. Other ways in which it contributed to the: development of Australian musical life have included co-operation with established musical bodies, assistance to musical competitions, and the arrangement of broadcasts for successful performers at the larger competitions. 
When  the  commission started in .1932, the presentation of plays was in an immature stage. There was no organized attempt to secure plays specially suited for broadcasting, to educate  playwriters  for radio work, or to train players and producers. Only three States had production staffs. Many productions were in charge of announcers or part-time amateur producers. The commission set up a productions department to put this important work on a proper national basis. Special staffs were secured or trained, and organized efforts were made to secure suitable material and to train players. Higher fees were paid to encourage playwrights and to raise the standard. Radio play competitions were held. A play-reading and advising department was created to search for and develop talent by advice and otherwise. The result of this policy has not only been to bring about a great improvement in the standard of play-writing and production, but has led to a remarkable development of Australian talent. Some idea of the work involved may be had from the following figures: - Last year 750 locally written plays of all kinds were submitted. These were carefully read ; 190 were purchased, and advice was given to authors of the remainder to help them to remedy defects in .their work. Some idea of the work involved in production may be had from the fact that more than 900 plays, including serious, light and musical plays, revues, arid sketches, were put on last year. The. number of engagements given to players in these productions totalled over 8,000. 
Talks cover an almost unlimited range of subjects and probably embrace every interest in the community. They cater for men, women and children, for city and country people; they deal with science, social and economic problems, art, national and international affairs, politics, books, and sport. In a great many cases they touch on controversial topics, and it is natural, therefore, that from time to time they draw protests from listeners who differ sharply from the views expressed. The commission has, however, always stressed the point that the views expressed are those of the speakers and not those of the commission ; that the discussion of controversial subjects, provided varying points of view are put by authoritative speakers, is a stimulus to thought, and an essential and valuable element in democratic communities. Indeed, this attitude towards freedom of discussion of controversial questions is not only characteristic of democratic peoples all over the world, but is also one of the features which distinguish democracy most sharply from totalitarian States. Some years ago, the House of Commons, discussing the activities of the British Broadcasting Corporation, resolved - 
That controversial matter is rightly not excluded from broadcast programmes, but that the Governors should ensure the effective expression of all important opinion relating thereto. 
Later, a representative committee of inquiry into broadcasting in England reaffirmed and enlarged on this view in the following words : - 
We think it important that controversial topics should continue to be discussed. If broadcasting is to present a reflection of its time, it must include matters which are in dispute. If it is to hold public interest, it must express living thought. If it is to educate public opinion, it must look upon the questions of the hour from many angles. 
Last year more than 4,700 talks were broadcast. About 1,100 individual speakers were engaged to broadcast these talks. The number of talks gives some idea of the amount of work involved when one remembers the necessity for arranging for speakers and scrutinizing the scripts carefully to avoid offending against the canons of good taste or public policy. The number of speakers engaged ensures the expression of a wide variety of opinions. An important development in connexion with talks has been the organizing of listening groups throughout the country. This experiment, which is being first tried out in New South Wales, has turned out a great success. Some 70 groups have been established, embracing more than 700 people. The groups meet regularly to discuss the subjects raised in various series of taits which have been organized specially for them, although, of course, intended to interest other listeners also. The commission has encouraged Australian writers of stories both by the purchase of their works and by prize competitions. During last year 176 stories and 11 serial stories were purchased from Australian authors. 
The increasing importance of news sessions has brought about almost a revolution in the scope and methods of presentation of news. Before 1936 nearly all the news sessions were State sessions, and many consisted of news read directly from a newspaper by an announcer. Since then the necessity for special writing for broadcasting has been increasingly recognized, and the news staffs have been strengthened and enlarged. The presentation of news has been improved and the sources of news have been extended. Up till 1936 the newspapers and the British official wireless service were the only sources of overseas news for Australian broadcasters. At the end of 1936 the commission arranged for a direct cable service from London to deal with events connected with the abdication of King Edward VIII. Results were successful and the next year direct cables on many happenings were received from a London representative. Later, a regular week-end cable service was arranged. 
After the outbreak of war, a fulltime news representative was appointed in London, and the commission also secured a service from the Exchange Telegraph Agency. In April, 1940, the commissi on dispensed with the Australian Associated Press service which, up to then, had been its main source of overseas news, and purchased the right to rebroadcast any or all of the British Broadcasting Corporation's bulletins in full. For this right; it agreed to be responsible for the payment to Australian Associated Press of £3000 per annum, half of which was t.o be contributed by the Australian Federation of Commercial Broadcasting Stations which were thereby entitled to  rebroadcast  the British Broadcasting Corporation's news bulletins. It was then no longer handicapped by having to keep hack  overseas  news until it had appeared in ibr- newspapers. A cable service from 
Kew York improved still further the news service to Australian listeners. 
The bulk of the Australian news is still taken from newspapers, but is now rewritten in a form suitable for broadcasting. An important addition to the service was the appointment early in 1939 of a federal roundsman with head-quarters at: Canberra. On Sunday afternoons, when'no newspapers are issued,- the commission's staff in each State collects Australian news for the evening sessions. It may be of interest, as indicating thework involved, to note that last year over 11,000 'bulletins, overseas and Australian, * were compiled by the commission's staff for broadcasting. News commentaries, of course, are the background of the news. These demand in the commentators a high degree of knowledge and experience.5 Last year over 500 locally-compiled news commentaries were broadcast, the number of individual commentators totalling about 40. 
Before the commission was appointed in 1932, there were no broadcast services for school children, except for some experimental work done for a few. months in Victoria. The commission appointed special ' school broadcasts officers in most States, and was fortunate,! eventually, in securing the fullest cooperation from the State and private educational bodies throughout Australia.As a result this important branch of  its'  work has developed greatly. Last yearthe number of schools at "which scholarsregularly listened totalled 1,900, and it is estimated that -the number of children- listening to the schoolsbroadcasts was about 100,000. Subjects selected are those in the school curriculum which lend themselves tobroadcast treatment. In addition, however, to the ordinary subjects, broadcasts of national series, such as "Health and: Hygiene ", " The World We Live In ", and " Musical Appreciation " bring the voices of doctors, commentators on inter-' national affairs, and musicians, to the' schoolroom. Plays are put on from the studio by first-class artists to illustratehistory and make it live in the minds pf the students. The commission also met another great need, namely, that of children in the outback who were unable toattend ordinary schools, and were dependent on correspondence instruction. 
There are now approximately 4,000 such children listening to the school broadcasts. The commission has also pioneered another important development in school broadcasting, namely, audiovisual education. By arrangement with the school authorities, lantern-slides or films are shown, simultaneously with the talks, as illustrations. Reference has already been made to the valuable eductional work done among children through the medium of the orchestral concerts for young people in the capital cities. 
For some years the commission has been giving its own shortwave broadcasts. During 1939-40 Station VLR in Victoria transmitted, on an average, for fifteen hours daily, and from the 16th December, 1939, when it came into operation, Station VLW in Western Australia transmitted, on an average, for thirteen hours daily. These broadcasts are given primarily for the benefit of listeners in remote parts of Australia, but they are. also heard regularly in New Guinea and some Pacific islands, and reception reports have come in from all parts of the world. Station VLW was brought into operation last December to serve, particularly, the north-west of Western Australia, the Northern Territory, Northern Queensland and the islands north of Australia within this arc. Its programmes are . based on the Western Australian State programmes and national news sessions. Reception reports have been generally good. 
At the request of the Commonwealth Department of Information, the commission arranged in December, 1939, to broadcast short-wave programmes to certain overseas countries. This called for additional accommodation, extensive alteration to premises already occupied, and the engagement of a staff of translators, broadcasters, and assistants with the necessary language qualifications. The new service was opened on the 20th December, 1939, by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies).  The transmissions were in English, French, German, Dutch, and Spanish. In April, 1940, a translation in English and Afrikaans directed to South Africa began from the Perth studios. Soon afterwards Italian broadcasts were introduced. Later the Spanish broadcasts to South America were discontinued, and some alterations were  made in the times of the European transmissions. Each programme consists of a news bulletin, a talk, and music. The programmes vary from half an hour to an hour and a half in length. The Department of Information supplies the news and the talk, the commission the translations and music. The transmitters used are VLR and VLW, owned by the Postmaster-General's Department, and VLQ, owned by Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited. According to reports, reception has, on the whole, been excellent, and many letters commenting on the broadcasts have come from listeners overseas, particularly from those in North America. 
In addition to the special departments mentioned, the commission provides a wide range of services, such as religious broadcasts, women's and children's sessions, sport sessions, descriptive broadcasts, and recordings. 
The bill before the Senate provides for an increase of the number of members of the commission. The commission now consists of five members, and this number will be increased to seven. The question of a broader representation of interests on the commission has been the subject of much consideration, and it is thought that the amendment now suggested will provide an opportunity to extend the sphere of interests of the commission. The term of appointment of the present members of the commission expires on the 30th June, 1941, and, in suggesting that the number of members be increased from five to seven, it is proposed that the appointments should take effect as from the 1st July, 1941. It is desirable that some degree of continuity of policy be maintained in such a body, and for that reason it is thought that the term of appointment of all the commissioners should not expire at the same time. The commissioners should, therefore, be appointed for differing periods. It is proposed that the commission shall consist of - 
A chairman, who shall be appointed for a period of three years, with eligibility for re-appointment for further periods not exceeding three years. 
A vice-chairman, who shall be appointed for a period of three years, with eligibility for reappointment for further periods not exceeding three years. (c)Five commissioners, who shall retire in rotation - two at the end of the first year, two at the end of the second year, and one at the end of the third year; each one upon the expiration of the term for which he was appointed to be eligible for reappointment for a period not exceeding three years. 
It is also proposed to modify the existing powers of the commission in relation to the appointment of officers. Section 15 of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Act provides that officers and servants appointed by the commission shall not be subject to the provisions of the Commonwealth Public Service Act, but shall be subject to such conditions, including tenure of office, as are determined by the commission. The employees of the commission, broadly, fall within two main categories - first, those whose employment is of a permanent character, and whose duties are of an executive or administrative nature, and, secondly, those whose duties are of a purely professional character. Naturally those within the second category are mostly part-time employees who are engaged mainly for programme purposes. 
During the early stages of the establishment of a semi-governmental activity such as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, there were, perhaps, many advantages in permitting those charged with the inauguration and ultimate establishment of the national broadcasting service complete freedom in the selection of employees and the determination of conditions of employment. Now, however, that the commission has been operating for over eight years, and its organization has been firmly established and some degree of permanency can bo foreseen in its method of operation, much can be said in support of the view that conditions governing the selection and employment of permanent staff should conform to those prescribed by the Commonwealth Public Service Act, either by bringing that section of the staff under that act or by having appropriate regulations issued under the Australian Broadcasting 
Commission Act. Clause 10 of the bill provides that officers and servants appointed by the commission shall be subject to such conditions " as are prescribed " instead of, as at the present, " as are determined by the commission ". In other words, section 15, as amended, will enable regulations to be made to prescribe the conditions of employment of the officers of the commission. At present, officers of the Repatriation Commission and of the War Service Homes Commission are employed in accordance with regulations made under the acts under which those commissions are constituted. The appointment and tenure of office of officers of the Commonwealth Council for Scientific and Industrial Research are similarly governed by regulations. 
Section 16 of the principal act refers to the functions of the commission. Clause 11 of the bill defines more clearly the respective responsibilities of the commission and the Postal Department in the carrying out of the provisions of the act. It also provides the necessary authority for holding public entertainments by the commission. This amendment has resulted from the doubt raised from time to time as to the legality of public entertainments held by the commission. Legal proceedings were instituted against the commission at one stage in order to prevent the commission from holding public entertainments, but the action did not reach court. 
I now propose to comment briefly on the technical services associated with the national broadcasting system. As honorable senators are aware, these services are provided by the Postal Department. From time to time, however, certain criticism has been raised respecting this aspect of broadcasting, and at times some resentment has been expressed that the Postal Department should be permitted to take any part in the actual technical work of broadcasting. In order to appreciate the degree to which the Postal Department's organization and itsplant are bound up with broadcasting, it is necessary to bear in mind that Commonwealth territory covers nearly 3,000,000 square miles, with a widely-scattered population outside the capital cities. The Postal Department hasstablished telephone facilities throughout the whole of the settled portions of Australia and has trained technical staffs located in almost every town and village. It is in a position, therefore, to perform the technical services associated with broadcasting in an efficient manner and with a minimum of expenditure. More important still, it is able to make such services available at all hours of the day and night at very short notice. The provision of the technical services associated with broadfasting is so closely interwoven with the activities of the Postal Department that it * the only authority adequately equipped to undertake this service. Any other arrangement would obviously lead to duplication of plant and personnel, and would involve enormous expenditure of time and money. In these circumstances, the Government does not propose to make any change in the responsibility for the provision of the technical services required. 
It was the intention in the original actthat the Postal Department should provide all technical services in the studios at the cost of that department. Since the commencement of the act, however, many advancements have been made in technical science, and, consequently, the provisions of section 46 and 47 of the act do not define precisely the position of the Postal Department and the commission in this connexion. Provision is therefore being made in the bill to cover that and other minor points concerned with the technical services. 
Clause 17 of the bill provides that " the Governor-General may, if he is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, by notice in writing, direct the commission to refrain from taking any action in the exercise of any of its powers conferred by this act ". It is recognized that there are many advantages in allowing the commission to exercise the widest possible powers ; but in the light, of experience it is considered that occasions may arise when the Government may find it essential to direct the commission in some particular sphere of the commission's activity. It is desired that the commission shall continue to lay down its own policy, and that it shall be free from the control of the Minister 

 Sena lor McLean. in the conduct of the normal business of the commission. This clause has been framed with the intention that the commission shall act under the powers conferred on it by the act, and shall be subject to restraint only when any of the actions of the commission are considered to be at variance with national or imperial policy or in conflict with public interest. 
Honorable senators will admit thatduring the past nine years enormous development has taken place, and that, despite whatever mistakes may have been made, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has never allowed party politics to  influencee  its deliberations. I hope, therefore, that, in view of its great national and international importance, broadcasting will never become the plaything of party politics. I commend the -bill to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator COLLINGS)  adjourned. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the ministerial statement delivered in the House of Representatives by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  (vide  page 118). 
 by leave  - I desire to inform the Senate that on Friday last, the 14th March, the honorable member for Barton,  Mr. H.  V. Evatt, K.C., was sworn in as a member of the Australian Advisory War Council. The representatives of the Opposition on the council are now as follows: -  Mr. John  Curtin, M.P., the  Hon.  F. M. Forde, M.P.,  Mr. H.  V. Evatt, K.C., M.P.,  Mr. N.  J. 0. Makin, M.P.. and the  Hon.  J. A. Beasley M.P. 
.- The answer that I was given  to-day  to a question about the fares charged soldiers travelling between Tasmania and the mainland was a deliberate attempt to evade the question. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Order! The honorable senator must not accuse a Minister of deliberate evasion. 
I withdraw the word " deliberate ", and say that the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender),  whose answer was transmitted to me through the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  entirely misunderstood my question. In the recess I made representations to the Minister for the Army, the Minister  for  the Navy  (Mr. Hughes)  and the Minister for Air  (Mr. McEwen)  for more equitable fares for soldiers, sailors and air force men crossing Bass Strait on leave. My representations were acknowledged, and it was stated that  the  Ministers concerned would confer in order to ascertain what could be done to meet my requests, but it would appear from  the  answer that was supplied to me to-day that nothing has yet been done. The position to-day is that members of the forces, Tasmanians encamped in other States and men from other States encamped in Tasmania, are discriminated against in comparison with those on the mainland who  are  encamped in mainland States other than their home States.Whereas  the  men who have to cross to Tasmania when going home on leave have to pay full fare, less 10 per cent. by air and less 15 per cent. by sea, men who go home on leave on the mainland are given concessions of much greater value. Moreover, a Tasmanian training at Duntroon has  to  pay 14s.10d. return fare to Melbourne in addition to the fare across Bass Strait, whereas a Victorian training at Duntroon is charged only 5s. return between Canberra and his home town. The men in  the  forces are equally imbued with the desire to fight for democracy and the preservation of this country and they should all, therefore, receive equal treatment. No member of the forces should be placed at a disadvantage in respect of fares merely because of geographical considerations. Discrimination, bad in any circumstances, becomes worse when one man is enabled to go on leave from a camp in Victoria to his home in New South Wales for 5s. return, whereas a Victorian who crosses Bass Strait on leave from a camp in Tasmania is compelled to pay a minimum of £3 10s. 3d. return. About 180 Victorians, in camp in Tasmania for a few months, had to pay £3 10s. 3d. each when they first went home on leave. On the second occasion, because there were insufficient secondclass berths on the boat, some had to go first class and some second class. The cost of their  passages  was pooled and the fares averaged £4 3s. a head. In the few months in which those men were in Tasmania they paid about £1,300 in fares to the shipping company to enable them to see their families in Victoria. A good many of them were married men. Honorable senators will readily imagine the inroads that their fares would make into the small amount of money that would be available from their small wage on which many have to maintain homes. 
I have made that suggestion to the Government, and I. shall make it again before I conclude. Another aspect of this matter concerns soldiers from the mainland serving on certain islands. These men obtain leave for the same period as other members of the military forces, but, owing to the limited time available, and because of the infrequent boat services operating between these islands and the mainland, it is absolutely impossible for them to return from leave within the specified time. As a result, they are liable to punishment for being absent without leave. I have placed this matter before the Government, and have asked that the aeroplane services be made available to them. The council clerk at Flinders Island has written to me saying very definitely that the men are told that they cannot travel by air and must use the boat service. In reply to a question  which I asked in this chamber, I was informed that the men could travel by air, but that is not so. I do not know of any reason why they should not be granted passages by aeroplane, either free, or at rates equivalent to those applying to soldiers travelling interstate on the mainland. Why should there be discrimination against them merely because they are Tasmanians and live in an isolated portion of the Commonwealth? Surely there should be equality among all men who are serving their country. They are prepared, if necessary, to give their lives in the defence of this country, and the least that any democratic government can do is to place them all on the same basis. 
I am not concerned about that. They are just as much entitled as are any other soldiers, sailors, or airmen, to visit their homes and to see their loved ones as frequently as possible. 
That does not affect the case that I am putting to the Senate. 
They may, for instance, allow their monthly leave to accumulate in order to go home, say, every three months. It is not fair that they should be required to pay up to ten times as much as is paid by other soldiers to reach their homes, merely because they are stationed in remote parts of the Commonwealth. That is something that should not be tolerated by a democratic government. 
The Government of Tasmania has made a greater contribution to the transport of the soldiers than this Government has ever made. 
I am asking if the Commonwealth Government intends to carry them free? Representations which I have made on this matter have been evaded. 
I am referring to the Minister for the Navy, the Minister for the Army, the Minister for Air, and the Ministers representing those Ministers in this chamber. To-day I asked a question on this matter and the Minister  (Senator Collett)  knew perfectly well the import of my question. It read - 
Has anything yet been done to reduce the fares of soldiers travelling between the mainland and Tasmania when on leave? If not. is anything likely to be done, and if so, when? 
The answer given by the Ministerrepresenting the Minister for the Army read - 
A fifteen percent. reduction in fare is allowed by a shipping company to members of the forces travelling between the mainland and Tasmania when on leave. 
The 15 per cent. reduction has always been allowed. I want to know if the Minister will approach the shipping companies with a view to obtaining a further reduction, and also will he consider granting free transport, to which the sailors, soldiers, and airmen are justly entitled. 
When a soldier enlists for service in the defence of his country and is prepared, if necessary, to give his life for. the preservation of democracy, surely he is entitled to some consideration. Quite apart from his final leave, he should be able to visit his home as frequently as possible. When the180 Victorians in Tasmania objected to paying their fares at Christmas time, and trouble seemed likely to develop in the camp, the Government said that it would grant them a free fare home, but it would be regarded as their final leave. Under those conditions, should a soldier be in camp for a further four or five months, he would have to pay his own fare home. I am aware that soldiers are provided with their fares home when they go on final leave. These boys are prepared to give their lives in the defence of this country, and when they areon leave surely they are entitled to free rail transport such as is available to members of Parliament. 
 in reply -  The suggestions made by  Senator Aylett  will be considered by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  Mrs. T.  Brown a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of her father, the Honorable John Henry Keating. 
Can the Postmaster-General state the policy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission with regard to the necessary work of erecting a national broadcasting station at Geraldton, Western Australia? 
It has been recognized by the Government for some time that Gerald ton is entitled to a national broadcasting station. The work would not be authorized by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but by the Government through the Postal Department. I hope that, as soon as funds are available, the people of Geraldton and the surrounding districts will be provided with the station to which they are entitled. 

 - byleave - I desire to bring under the notice of the Senate what I consider to be an unwarranted evasion of questions that I have asked in this chamber concerning  Mr. E.  M. R. Lewis, who has accompanied  Sir Bertram  Stevens, leader of the Australian delegation to Delhi as his personal secretary. Lack of frankness in answer to questions, asked purely for the purpose of obtaining information in the public interest, is, to my mind - and I think honorable senators will agree with me - much to be deplored, and is calculated at all times to cause unnecessarily serious conclusions to be drawn. It is quite definite, at least, that any suspicion that may be harboured in the first place must, of course, he accentuated by patent evasion. With regard to  Mr. Lewis,  I asked, among other things, whether the Investigation Branch of the Attormey-General's Department had had occasion at any time to pay attention to the alleged alien affiliations of  Mr. Lewis.  In his  reply the Minister,  Senator McLeay,  who represents the Attorney-General in this chamber, said that the Investigation Branch had never 'been asked to make inquiries regarding either  Mr. Lewis  or his associations. Strangely, the Minister went on to say, " Even if such inquiry had been made, the nature of the inquiry would not, in accordance with the established practice, be made public ". 
Apart from the established practice, I claim that the Australian public is entitled to know the credentials of any person appointed to a position of public trust in our war organization.  Mr. Lewis  may be a very worthy gentleman, and I asked questions concerning him solely to clear my mind of suspicions that havebeen raised. But, in answer to the most vital of my questions, which concerned the interest of the Commonwealth in  Mr. Lewis's  political activities, I was told only a half-truth. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to say that. I call on him to withdraw that remark. 
 by leave  - Iwas not aware of the particular matter on which  Senator Amour  was given leave to make a statement. As I have stressed in this chamber on previous occasions, I think that honorable senators should jealously guard their privileges, and be careful in making statements about persons who have no opportunity to defend themselves. The matter raised by the honorable senator willbe referred to the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes). 

Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs in a position to say whether the department has received any complaints regarding the alleged shortage of Australian tobacco leaf on the retail market? If so, will he inquire into the method of distribution of Australian blended tobacco leaf, as apart from imported blended leaf, in order to ascertain the reason why the smoking public of Australia is being denied certain types of Australian blended tobacco ? 
I am aware that a conference dealing with tobacco leaf Was held during the last two or three days in Canberra, but so far I do not know the result of it. I shall have inquiries made and furnish a reply to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
Will the Minister for the Interior make a statement to the Senate in explanation of the granting of naturalization to36 aliens  as  disclosed in a list published in the  Commonwealth Gazette  of the 20th March? 
In the absence of the Minister for the Interior, who isat present engaged on important Government business in Queensland, I undertake to obtain a reply to the honorable senator's questionas soon as possible. 
. -I move- 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 10 a.m. to-morrow. 
Is the motion supported ? 

 Four honorable senators having risen in support of the motion, 

I do not think that New South Wales has any ground for complaint in this matter. 
Those who will come to the assistance of the department at this crucial moment would notbe forgotten by the Government when the Army was fully equipped and would receive preferential treatment for future orders as the preference they would be giving to the Government orders would militate against them in the civilian trade and therefore would have to receive the full protection of the Government by the supply of military orders to keep their plants going. 
The position to-day is that many, who were not manufacturing clothing material at that time, have now come into the business and are being given orders in preference to many manufacturers who, in response to the Government's appeal and promise of protection, turned over their factories to the manufacture of military clothing. I also draw attention to the following statement which was made by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  in reply to criticism by me of the Government in regard to the allocation of military clothing contracts - 
So long as 1 remain TreasurerI will not agree to the granting of defence contracts on a basis merely of distributing them widely among the States. 
I made no suggestion that the Government's defence expenditure should be distributed among the States on a £1 for £1 basis. I said, and I still contend, that, having regard to sound business principles, and recognizing the claims of particular States which enjoy certain advantages over others, in addition to the severity of unemployment in different States, it is the duty of the Government to allocate its defence expenditure between the States as fairly as possible. The Acting Prime Minister went on to say - 
In many instances firms in other States cannot compete in price with the Victorian firms to which contracts have gone. 
I refute that statement.  Mr. Fadden  said - 
I will not be a party to allocation of contracts, possibly at a price of 60 to 80 per cent, higher than we can get the work done for, simply to see that the work goes to a certain State. 
Towards the end of last year several small contracts were let by the department, the following being typical: Life jackets, S. Plotkin, 68 Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, contract price £853 ; McWhirters, Brisbane, £141 ; cooks caps and aprons, Pioneer Softgoods Industry Proprietary Limited, New South Wales,' £125. I shall not weary the 'Senate with the whole list. We were told that employment of union labour at award rates and award conditions was to be a condition of all contracts. Yet, I have been told by the secretary of the union that Pioneer Softgoods Industry Proprietary Limited and Pelaco Limited, Victoria, employ non-union labour and that Murdoch's Manufactories Proprietary Limited, New South Wales, employs at least, in the manufacture of shirts, girls who are non-unionists. The latest figures obtainable show that in the last few months Victorian firms have received service clothing contracts to the value of £87,765 as against £52,425 worth of contracts given to firms operating in New South Wales. The amounts allocated to other States are too insignificant to mention. As I have already said the Acting Prime Minister claimed that to distribute contracts more widely among the States would result in a loading of costs by from 60 per cent, to 80 per cent. In rebuttal I present the following official tabulations showing the contracting firms, locality, quantities, and accepted prices. The tenders were invited in all States late in . 1940- 

<graphic href="166332194103261_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that the price quoted by the Sydney firm was lower than the price of any of the Melbourne firms which shared in those contracts. Thus the excuse offered by the Acting Prime Minister is refuted in that particular instance. The next table shows the following :  - 

<graphic href="166332194103261_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

That table also proves conclusively that the argument adduced by the Acting Prime Minister is entirely misleading. 
Were not the lowest tenders accepted? 

<graphic href="166332194103261_3_2.jpg"></graphic>

Another matter to which I wish to direct attention relates to the manufacture of jackets for theRoyal Australian Air Force. Two contracts were let to two manufacturers in Sydney - the Chief Clothing Company and Esquire Proprietary Limited. The price tendered by one company was £17 17s. a dozen, whilst that tendered by the other was £19 3s. 6d. a dozen. Those companies were supposed to be manufacturing articles of the same quality, yet there was that great disparity in price. Obviously, either the company which quoted £17 17s. was making an  inferior article, or the other concern which quoted £19 3s. 6d. was being paid an excessive price for the work. It is apparent that something is wrong. It is also rather significant that the firm which is doing the work at the higher price has, as one of its directors, a brother-in-law of a Cabinet Minister. I do not suggest that great significance should be attached to that fact, but it is something which causes immediate suspicion. Not only is that company receiving preference in the matter of contracts, but it is also securing a higher price foi" the goods produced. I should like the Minister for Supply and Development to explain the disparity in the contract prices for identical goods. 
Complaints have been made concerning the unsatisfactory position in Victoria. I. have been reliably informed, and my information has been supported by reports in the press, that unless a manufacturer is financed by a certain person in Victoria who has been financing some clothing manufacturers, orders cannot be obtained. Perhaps that is one reason why the New South Wales manufacturers are being discriminated against. The New South Wales manufacturers are able to finance their own contracts, and as a result they have not received a fair share of the defence orders. I have received from Victoria a statement in which it is claimed that at least 50 per cent, of all clothing contracts for uniforms, greatcoats, shorts and shirts, have been placed with foreign-controlled firms presided over by a  Mr. Rabinor.  No doubt honorable senators have heard of that gentleman, and I understand that the department has made some inquiries concerning his activities. Perhaps the Minister, in his reply, will let the Senate know the result of the inquiries in that regard. Some firms which have obtained contracts were on the verge of bankruptcy when the war started.  Mr. Miller,  of Miller and Clark, of Flinders-street, Melbourne, a firm controlled by  Mr. Rabinor,  admitted that he was paying £100 a week to  Mr. Rabinor.  being his share as a sleeping partner in the business. The statement also discloses that although a greatcoat can be made for 29s., and return a profit to the manufacturer, the price charged to the Govern ment recently for greatcoats was 39s. 6d. each, representing a profit of 40 per cent. The Government supplies all materials and the firms do not even have to seek the business. There are no losses; only huge profits. An air force greatcoat costs the Government at least 47s. 6d., but the cost of manufacture is actually less than that of a military greatcoat. Air force shorts are sold to the Government at 6s. lid. a pair, yet only three-quarters of a yard of single width cloth, costing only ls. 9d. a yard, is required. The ordinary Australian Imperial Force jacket can be made profitably for 19s., but the Government is paying as high as 22s. 6d. The attention of the press has been directed to the activities of  Mr. Rabinor.  Last week, the following paragraph appeared in  Smiths Weekly: - 
Last week  Smiths Weekly  was asked by a clothing manufacturer, who has an oldestablished business of high standing in the trade, to visit his office in Flinders-street, Melbourne. 
This man had a strange story to tell. " I would ask you please not to mention my name in anything you write ", he said, at the outset, " for I know that, if it came to the cars of certain people that I had appealed to  Smiths  I would be cut out of any further defence clothing contracts I might seek. 
 At the moment, I have not got any such contracts, and I am puzzled about what is happening. " For a considerable time, I was a successful tenderer. Here are my vouchers to prove that what I say is correct. In all, I have made up approximately 15,000 garments for the military. " I tell you this so that you may be sure that I know my business. 
In May of last year, I tendered for 500 air force jackets, drab khaki drill. Contracts Board increased my order to 2500 jackets at £13 13s. a dozen. "Just about that time I also received an order for 4000 khaki shorts at 81s. 2d. a dozen. " There were no complaints concerning my work on those orders. In fact, although I have made up, as I told you, at least 15,000 military garments, I have not had one rejected. " Last November, a young man called to see me, produced a notebook, and was able to tell me just how much I had to do before finishing the contract I was on. " I thought he was from the Contracts Board - an inspector, maybe - so I said ' Yes, that's right '. " Then he asked, ' You want further contracts ' ? "I told him I did. He said, 'Well, you let us finance you, there will be more contracts. If you don't your tenders will be turned down '. " I said to him, ' What does this mean ? Are you from the Contracts Board'? "'No', he replied, 'I am not. I represent private financiers, and we have plenty of money '. " I told him I did not want to have anything to do with him . . . that I could finance my own contracts. He went away, and I heard nothing further. " It is significant that my subsequent tenders for air force clothing have been turned down, though I know that the air force authorities were pleased with my work. As a matter of fact, when I told them what had happened they were most surprised. There is no nonsense about that, for the other day I was asked by them if I would supply them with some model garments for use as patterns for contractors in other States ". 
That statement shows that there is dissatisfaction in Victoria concerning the carrying out of orders for army requirements. I do not claim that all the allegations made against the Department of Supply and Development are true, but I maintain that the figures submitted by mc concerning the contracts are accurate because they were obtained from the department. It  is  not proper for the Acting Prime. Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  to make misstatements deliberately. I have proved that certain articles of clothing are being made at lower cost in New South Wales than in Victoria. Surely the Minister of Supply and Development will regard this matter as one of great public importance, and I contend that it is so important that it demands investigation by a select committee of the Senate. Our forces at home and abroad should he supplied with articles of the best material; and the taxpayers should not be called upon to pay more than a reasonable price. As the Department of Supply and Development has been established for a long period, its officers should now be qualified to check the cost of all articles required. Therefore the officers should have sufficient authority to tell contractors that, in the event of their not manufacturing articles at such and such a price, they will not be given a contract. The graft involved in the subject of my speech should not be permitted. It is a public scandal, demanding the most searching investigation. Every avenue where there is suspicion of graft or overcharging on army contracts should be fully investigated. I appeal to the Government to have regard to the best interests of Australia when allocating defence expenditure. If it is more economical to place an order in New South Wales or Queensland or Tasmania, then it is the duty of the Government ito place the order there. 
The Senate has been treated to a dissertation by  Senator Ashley  in which he set out first to show that a malignant factor was operating against New South Wales in the allocation of army contracts, but later he diverted his remarks to a general criticism of the Commonwealth Contracts Board. I direct the attention of the Senate to the actual situation relating to munitions production at the outbreak of the war. The production of munitions in Australia was then confined to four government factories, three being in Victoria and one in New South Wales. Consequently it was the Government's duty to obtain munitions in the most expeditious manner, and obviously the facilities existing had to be used to capacity and every means adopted to expand those facilities regardless of the State or States in which they were situated. It is not surprising that the Government, in its endeavour to meet the requirements of our forces in Australia and overseas, utilized the existing facilities and the opportunities offering for their extension. Consequently, I have no apology to offer for the Government making full use of the facilities existing in two States in the early stage of the war and, by doing so, possibly overlooking the claims of some of the other States. I can assure honorable senators that before the end of the war the Government will be utilizing facilities, not only in Victoria and New South Wales, but also those that can be provided in the other States. We have shown evidence of our desire, as far as our capacity permits, to distribute the work throughout all the States. It is obvious that we must use all the facilities we have at hand, and that is being done. So far as we have the machines, tools, jigs and skilled personnel, a definite distribution will be made of the government factories and annexes and privatelyowned factories in every State. 
I am sure that the honorable senator would not suggest that the Government is permitting skilled workmen to remain in States where they have no opportunity to employ their skill. 
The honorable senator's interjection is entirely untrue. The Government, instead of preventing industries from being established in States other than New South Wales and Victoria, has endeavoured , to set up industries in such States. I shall quote figures showing that that transference of industry is now proceeding and that there is substantial evidence of it in the production of those States. 
I shall refer briefly to some of the difficulties that confront us, particularly in regard to our effort to produce munitions'. At the beginning of the war we had four very efficient factories, but their output was relatively small. Although prior to the war we tried to expand our activities, the war caught us in the transition stage with our programme unfinished.' As we realized early in the war that the call on our capacity to manufacture munitions would be very great, we immediately set about doing some of the things which would obviously be necessary. The bottle-neck in our munitions programme is due, in the first place, to a shortage of the machine tools which are essential to a large output. 
The war effort calls for the manufacture of many things besides clothing. Owing to the complexity and the fineness of the work necessary in the manufacture of munitions, the supply of the requisite tools, gauges and jigs constitutes the real bottle-neck. Where we have these things we have to make full use of them, and, in our endeavour to increase the supply we have been confronted by the problem of a simultaneous demand for these tools from Great Britain and other parts of the 
Empire, and, latterly, even from the United States of America. Theref ore, the things that we need most are also required by other countries, and this seriously restricts our capacity. We have had to rely on our own engineering capacity to produce many of the tools which, before the war, we should not have dreamed of making in Australia. Whereas, at the beginning of the war, there was only one machine-tool shop in Australia producing lathes and other necessary equipment, in quantity and also, to a lesser extent, we now have over 50 firms producing such equipment which is required most urgently. It may interest  Senator Ashley  to know that the value of machine tools purchased in New South Wales now exceeds that of the purchases in Victoria. The facts contrast strongly against what has been alleged by some honorable members of the House of Representatives. Figures in my possession show that machine tools delivered from New South Wales were valued at £1,072,000, as compared with tools to the value of £1,034,000 delivered from Victoria. 
I point out to  Senator Ashley  that one of the difficulties confronting the Contracts Board in all States is the urgency of demands frequently received from the services. We have endeavoured to obtain from the various services details of requirements over a long period, so that we could organize the industries concerned and place with them orders that would keep them in operation on a. uniform scale for a period of months . In some directions we have achieved a measure of success, but the results of our efforts have not been entirely satisfactory. We hope to be able to do much better in the near future than we have done in the past. Frequently the Contracts Board receives a demand from one of the services for certain goods, and only a short period is available for delivery. A case in point is the demand for military clothing, which matter was referred to by  Senator Ashley.  The board is, willynilly, forced to split up contracts among a number of firms irrespective of the price tendered for particular articles, in order to meet, the delivery dates demanded- by the services. Consequently I make no apology, for saying that frequently we accept tenders involving three or four prices from different firms for the same articles. Frequently we have to accept tenders providing for low prices in Victoria and higher prices in New South Wales and Queensland, or the reverse position may obtain; hut there is no discrimination against States. The Contracts Board must be able to get the goods demanded within a stipulated period. 
My department often is called. upon to supply goods at short notice. In cases where the board considers that a price is not fair and reasonable, it lets the contract on the condition that its accountants may go into the factory concerned and check the costs of production. If these costs are shown to be- such that the manufacturer is obtaining undue profit, the price is accordingly reduced. We have done this on many occasions, and some substantial reductions of prices have been made. The board takes every opportunity to assure itself that undue profits are not secured by contractors. Early last year, complaints were made by suppliers that the department was cutting prices too finely, but, owing to the larger quantities now being ordered, the factories are now able to turn out goods at much lower prices than formerly. 
I understand that, as soon as  Senator Ashley  read a certain statement in  Smiths Weekly,  he referred the matter to my department for investigation and report. It was -a general statement in which the person responsible for the allegation refused to reveal his name, and, therefore, we were hampered in our investigation. Within the last fortnight I have received a letter from a contractor who is willing to reveal his name and to set out his complaint. I am having this case thoroughly investigated, and I can assure honorable senators that the department does not condone any action such as that alleged in the statements published in  Smiths Weekly.  If we find the statements to be true we shall take prompt and effective measures with regard to them. 
In the early stages of the war, we were forced to use the f acilities at hand, and to build up existing industries, but since then we have endeavoured to spread our manufacturing activities over a much larger area. I have before me particulars of contracts let since the beginning of the war. From the 1st September, 1939, to the 31st August, 1940, contracts let by the Contracts Board for foodstuffs, clothing, &amp;c, amounted to £9,300,000 in New South Wales and £13,288,000 in Victoria. From the 1st September, 1940, to the 28th February, 1941, contracts let in New South Wales amounted to just over £7,000,000 as against £6,700,000 in Victoria. Whereas there was a large preponderance, in the first twelve months of the war, in favour of Victoria as compared with New South Wales, during the last four or five months the contracts let in New South Wales have exceeded in value those let in Victoria.. I also point out that even the figures which I have just given may, to a degree, be misleading, because it does not necessarily follow that contracts nominally let in any one State are carried out in that State. It is impossible to give a complete statement of that aspect by any dissection of contract figures, but a statement which I have had prepared shows that in the first twelve months the war contracts let in Victoria were valued at £16,000,000 and in New South Wales at £9,000,000. Of the Victorian figure, however, contracts to the value of £3,500,000 were fulfilled outside that State, over £2,000,000 worth of the work going to New South Wales, and £1,400,000 to South Australia. The contracts actually fulfilled in Victoria, therefore, amounted not to £16,000,000 but to £12,500,000. I also point out that, probably, a large proportion of the raw material used in the fulfilment of the contracts actually carried out in Victoria was supplied by New South Wales. The claims of New South Wales are receiving the fullest consideration by the Government. I assure honorable senators that the Government has no intention of confining the manufacture of war material to any one State. Its first consideration is to use to the greatest advantage the capacity available regardless of State interests. 
Finally, I point out that before we proceed much further it will not be a question of allocating orders as between firms or States; our main problem will be to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity to complete orders which will be coming to us from abroad. Honorable senators are aware that following the initial conference of the Australian delegation in Delhi the Eastern Group Supply Council was set up a few months ago. Since then we have received orders from that council for materia] which, despite the greatest goodwill and readiness on our part to meet such orders, we were unable to accept owing to our limited capacity. We shall fulfil such orders to the utmost of our capacity. I want honorable senators to realize, however, that the demands that are going to be made upon us of the kind to which I have already referred will undoubtedly impinge upon the supply of civilian requirements. I feel sure that honorable senators generally support the policy of the Government to give preference to the manufacture of defence needs. In carrying out that policy we shall undoubtedly experience, at least, temporarily, some dislocation of the manufacture of civilian supplies. Undoubtedly, we shall experience a shortage of raw materials and labour for civilian needs owing to transfers for the manufacture of defence requirements. Consequently, when complaints are made - and I have already received such complaints - concerning these shortages of civilian requirements, honorable senators, I am sure, will realize that we are doing the right thing in subordinating civilian requirements to defence needs. However, I give the assurance that, although such shortages will undoubtedly cause inconvenience, they will at no time amount to real hardship. 
.- For some considerable time, Tasmania has been dissatisfied with the treatment meted out by this Government to its manufacturing industries in respect of defence orders. Recently, a deputation consisting of Tasmanian members of Parliament, led by the Premier of that State, put before the Government Tasmania's requirements. Consequently, the Government now has a good idea of that State's desires. If it takes notice of the deputation's representations, Tasmania should, in the future, receive a fair share of defence expenditure. In view of the sympathetic hearing given by the Government to that deputation, I should be unfair if I traversed the ground- covered' by the deputation, or put forward any further claims on behalf of Tasmania at this juncture. Rather should we wait and see what the Government does in regard to the deputation's requests before we offer any further criticism of the Government's expenditure on defence contracts. 
 Honorable senators will agree that carping criticism of the Government's war effort cannot be justified. The task before the Government is colossal. Whatever party were in power at the present time would, as a government, be obliged to meet our present problems in the same way as this Government is doing. I pay a tribute to the Government, to those captains of industry who are co-operating in our war effort, and also to those experts who are advising the Government as to the best way in which the resources of this country can be utilized in the present crisis. Therefore, I, personally, have no criticism to offer of the Government's major policy in this matter. All parties agree on the Government's defence policy.  Senator Ashley  has made allegations which, if they be well-founded, must be regarded very seriously. I feel sure that if the honorable senator possesses information which discloses improper conduct in respect of the letting of defence contracts, those allegations will be readily and thoroughly investigated. I have no doubt that the honorable senator's only motive in raising these matters is to ensure that the right thing is done. However, I deprecate the characteristic outlook of the honorable senator in playing one State against another in so serious a national crisis as now confronts us. He should remember that our war effort is a national war effort. It is only natural that the Government should make the greatest use of existing heavy industries, irrespective of the State in which they may be located. The honorable senator must know that, so far as the Government is concerned, this is not a matter of New South Wales versus Victoria. However, he has made that his main issue. Looking at the figures quoted by the Minister, the honorable senator should feel very happy about the position of New South 
Wales. The expenditure in that State has been of such huge proportions that it could not possibly escape the notice of any honorable senator.  Senator Ashley,  for instance, did not even mention the expenditure on the construction of &gt;a graving dock in Sydney, which will amount to millions of pounds. That work has been undertaken in New South Wales, not in order to appease that State, but solely on the advice of experts. I repeat that if the Opposition were in power it would be guided by the same basic principles by which the Government is guided to-day, namely, the advice of its military experts and our captains of industry. Honorable senators opposite would' then he only too anxious to .call the latter to their assistance, despite their past repeated denunciations of our industrial leaders. 
In dealing with this problem, the Government should not overlook the claims of the less populous States. Experts very often pay no regard to government policy, and, consequently, .there is a danger of many of our war industries being localized in two or three States. I. urge the Government to watch carefully lids aspect of the problem, and to beatin mind at .all tames its duty to safeguard the interests of the less populous States. Wherever possible, expenditure on the production of munitions and war material should be allocated to those States. The Minister misunderstood my interjection. I do not suggest that skilled nien in Tasmania whose services are needed in other States should remain in Tasmania, but delay in using industries in the less populous States, which have been expanded in anticipation of receiving war orders, will deplete those States of skilled workmen. Men drawn from one State to work in another State are apt to become citizens of that State. Every reduction of population increases the disabilities of States in compensation for- which this Parliament makes annual grants. That being the case, it is time that the Government took full advantage of .industrial facilities offering in the less populous States. I agree with  Senator Lamp  that representations on behalf; of Tasmania have been made to the Government. I shall no.t discuss  those representations beyond saying that the 
Government should give favorable consideration to the requests made. The Government has appointed technical advisers whose advice must not be disregarded, but they tend to advise that the man-power resources of the less populous States should be tapped so that the policy of centralizing industry may be maintained. That policy, if persisted in, will increase the acuteness of the housing problem in industrial centres on the mainland and leave vacant in the other States business premises and houses which will be a liability to the local authorities in those States, and consequently to the States themselves. Tasmania's engineering shops are well equipped, not to engage in heavy industry, but to make a substantial contribution to our output of armaments. If necessary, components manufactured in Tasmania could be assembled in the industrial centres on the mainland. Another way in which Tasmania could assist in the war effort is in the provision of service clothing. I do not ask or expect that clothing should be made- in Tasmania at, costs higher than on the mainland, but I emphasize that clothing factories in Tasmania increased their equipment at. the invitation of the Defenceauthorities in order to share in the work. 1 believe that where the Commonwealth Government can either give or withhold it should give. It .must not lose sight of the benefit that will in the long run accrue generally if the less populous States are given an equitable share of defence expenditure. 
 I have always been of the opinion that all governmental work should be distributed among the States on a population basis. Early in the war I said in the Senate that soldiers should be clothed and equipped by the State in which they enlist. Had that policy been applied, there would have been none of the present quarrelling. I say nothing about the recruitment of artisans from Western Australia for work in the eastern States, because men are free to go where they like, but I disagree with the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  when he says that the Government is doing its 'best. If what the Government is doing is its best, it is a very poor best so far as Western Australia is concerned. One aspect of the Minister's reply to  Senator Ashley  which- struckme as significant was that he contrasted the millions of pounds that were being expended in New South Wales and in Victoria, but omitted to mention huge sums which are being expended in South Australia. The people of the less populous States have good reason for dissatisfaction when they read in the press that the  per capita  expenditure on war materials in Victoria is £27 14s. 10d., in New South Wales £190s. 7d., and in South Australia £22 8s.10d. Either the writer of the article which contained that information forgot to mention the  per capita  expenditure in the other States or the other States were too ashamed of the paucity of . their share to reveal the figures. My view is that the engineering capacity of each State should be examined by a committee of experts. An expert with knowledge of Western Australian industrial conditions would know that in Western Australia there are many opportunities for that State to partake in the manufacture of defence requirements. There are plenty of tailoring establishments which could be used for the manufacture of service clothing. Western Australia lately has received clothing contracts,, but not sufficient to absorb the whole of its productive capacity. Western Australia has also received contracts for the supply of military boots, the quality of which is higher than that of any other military boots made in Australia. I could supply a. list of trades whose manufacturing capacity is far from exhausted. It should be borne in mind that the port of Fremantle is closer than any other large Australian port to Singapore and that, should the need arise, the Australian troops at Singapore could be equipped from Western Australia in half the time that it would, take to equip them from any other part of Australia. I still adhere to what I said on the adjournment last week, namely, that the engineering capacity of each State should be investigated by a committee on which the State under review would be represented. 
I am glad to hear that. All the same, Western Australia is not receiving a fair deal. The Minister, as a West Australian, should be one of the first to demand fairer treatment for his State, which is the worst treated of all States. Tasmania and Queensland are receiving at least something, and South Australia is having the best time that it has ever had, but Western Australia has been almost entirely neglected in the expansion of industry. There is no more patriotic State than Western Australia. It has been above the average both in recruits and in the provision of patriotic funds, but in the allocation of work it has not even been considered. I insist that work should be allocated on a population basis. If that policy were applied, the ill feeling which now exists between States would give way to national unity. 
I agree with Senators Lamp and Herbert Hays that a deputation of Tasmanian s waited on the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  requesting increased defence expenditure in Tasmania, but it was not the first deputation that we have had on that subject. We have had deputation after deputation in the last two years, but we have received no more than sympathy. I hope that we receive something more tangible than sympathy as the result of the last deputation. I agree with the statement of the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  that in the initial stages of war it is necessary to make use of available facilities, but we are not now in the initial stages of war. We are well into the second year of war. Meanwhile the less populous States are languishing. Their skilled men are being enticed to the more favoured States. It is quite true that skilled workers could not be expected to stay in any one State if they were needed elsewhere, but there is nothing, to prevent the Government from starting on a small scale works in the less populous States which would enable them to retain their man-power. There is no need to expend all the defence money in the more highlydeveloped States and so starve the less populous States that a drift of population occurs. The time will soon -come when there will be insufficient workers  in the last mentioned States to undertake defence work should annexes eventually be erected. It is quite true that the Government had first to utilize fully all existing factories, and machinery, but, in addition to doing so, it has expended millions of pounds on the construction of annexes for private firms, some of which could have been expended in the less populous States. When the war started we suggested to the Government that annexes be built at the Tasmanian railway workshops for the manufacture of arms and munitions. At first the suggestion was turned down, but after repeated representations had been made to the Government, consent was given for the construction of an annexe at the Launceston railway workshops. That annexe could have been built twelve or eighteen months ago, and could have been in full operation now. The expenditure involved is only about £14,000, whereas money expended on a factory in South Australia, now approaching completion, amounts to approximately £3,000,000. I repeat that, unless something is done, the drift of population to the more important States industrially will be such that, even if new annexes be established in the other States, insufficient labour will be available to operate them. I strongly support  Senator Ashley's  protest. Much better use could have been made of the States such as Tasmania, had there been a more equitable distribution of defence expenditure. Tasmania is quite capable of producing such military requirements as clothing and boots, but it has had nothing like its share of orders for these commodities. There are many manufacturing organizations in Tasmania which are quite prepared to accept defence contracts if the Contracts Board will only give them an opportunity to do so. The people of Tasmania will not allow this matter to be ignored. Several days ago I received a circular - no doubt other honorable senators received one also - from a big municipality in Tasmania, demanding that a firm stand be taken in support of a fair share of defence expenditure in Tasmania. The alternative is that support for the Government be withdrawn. I might point out that it is not my support that keeps the Go- vernment  in office. Probably that circular is meant for honorable senators opposite. Representations of that nature make it perfectly plain that we in this chamber are not voicing merely our own views; we are speaking on behalf of the entire population of Tasmania. That we are entitled to protest in connexion with this matter is shown very clearly in an answer which I received to a question a few days ago. I asked what amount of money had been expended in Tasmania on munitions, &amp;c, during the year 1939- 40, and what was the estimated expenditure in that State during the current year. The answer was that expenditure in 1939-40 had been nil, and that the total contemplated expenditure for 1940-41 was only £138,000. Even that small amount represented only contemplated expenditure, and the actual figure will probably not be so high. 
I trust that this discussion will bear some fruit, and that a more equitable distribution of defence contracts amongst the States will eventuate. I trust also that the Government will immediately realize that we are no longer in the initial stages of the war, and will look upon Australia as a united nation, and not merely as one of two States - New South Wales and Victoria. 
The motion moved by  Senator Ashley  has served a good purpose. Unlike  Senator Herbert  Hays, I think that at times it is good to have criticism, provided that criticism be constructive. I commend  Senator Ashley  for the trouble he has taken to bring such valuable information before the Senate. In time of war united people such as we are in Australia have no time for those who stoop to underhand methods or take advantage of the war position, whether they be contractors or workers. T know that the Government has had many difficulties to overcome, and no doubt, at times, very stiff problems have been encountered, but that does not mean that there should be no criticism of its activities. 
I recall an occasion when  Senator Cunningham, Senator Clothier  and myself made an endeavour on behalf of Western Australia to bring under the notice of the Government the position of the unemployed in that State. At that time it was stated that because of the geogra'phical position of Western Australia, and because of the industrial laws and higher arbitration court awards in that State, the costs of production exceeded those in the more populous States, and consequently Western Australia could not compete. However, this afternoon the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride),  and the figures quoted by  Senator Ashley,  indicated quite clearly that previous statements made in regard to tender prices were incorrect. It is apparent that the Contracts Board does not necessarily accept the lowest tender. I remember  Senator Cunningham  asking certain questions concerning the industrial laws of Western Australia, and suggesting that, in allocating contracts, consideration should be given to those laws. I think that the Minister concerned promised that that would be done. Whatever the Minister may say about using all available machines to their fullest capacity, there are idle plants in Western Australia. Having received some contracts for the supply of clothing, certain concerns in Western Australia expanded their plant to cope with the orders. No more orders have been forthcoming and the firms have been left practically high and dry with over-capitalized organizations. To my knowledge, there are about 200 operatives and machinists out of work and walking the streets in Western Australia. That, of course, is in addition to the 6,000 parttime workers provided for by the State Government out of loan money. That is the position in Western Australia. I suggest that the dearth of defence orders in Western Australia has not been owing to the high prices submitted by tenderers in that State, as the Minister said some months ago. 
They are girl machinists and clothing trade operatives. In placing orders for defence equipment the Contracts Board should take into consideration the fact that Western Australia receives a very small share of war expenditure. The Minister admitted this afternoon that although definite allocations of defence expenditure were made it did not necessarily follow that the amount allocated for any particular State would be expended in that State. For instance, £1,500,000 was allocated to Western Australia for defence purposes, but all of that money has not been expended there, because some of the material on which that £1,500,000 was to be expended was manufactured in the eastern States. 
Yes, but that condition also obtains in respect of the manufacture of that raw material. In one instance of which I heard, the quality of the material submitted by a Western Australian firm was superior to that of the contractor who was subsequently given the order. One firm in Perth tendered for 10,000 pairs of khaki drill trousers for the Permanent Forces. One order was placed with the  Rivel  Manufacturing Company of Victoria, the price being £5 16s. a dozen pairs. An order for 4,000 pairs was placed with  Ryzman  and Brooks, of Victoria, at £5 16s. 8d. a dozen pairs. The Western Australian firm quoted £5 16s. a dozen pairs but did not receive an order. Such matters are liable to create a very unfavorable impression. From investigations which I have made I have ascertained that in some instances when tenders have been called, and before a tenderer has quoted a price he has investigated the position with regard to the purchase of the necessary raw material should he obtain a contract. After the tenders closed he was notified that there was a certain quantity of material available. I am certain from my investigations that everything is not square and above board. On reliable authority I am informed that it is common practice in New South Wales and Victoria for certain persons to approach'a manufacturer who has little work on hand and advise him that they can obtain a contract for him, and if he has not sufficient money available they will finance him on their terms. That practice should not be tolerated. The Minister for Supply and Development informed the Senate that the people of Australia must be prepared to make an additional sacrifice by allowing defence needs to have priority over civil requirements. 
If that is so, I want the sacrifice to be borne equally. That is not the case now. Steel manufacturers in Western Australia are confronted with many difficulties. If those senators who advocated three years ago the fullest development by the Government of the iron-ore deposits at Yampi Sound had succeeded, Australia would be able now to supply not only her own iron ore requirements but also those of neighbouring countries. 
SenatorFRASER.- No. But it is short of steel. If proper action had been taken by the Government to develop our iron ore deposits the importation of steel would not now be necessary. Iron ore is the basis of our national economy and the Government should not delay in the development of the iron ore resources of Western Australia. The responsibility of that development should not be left to the huge companywhich has now complete control of the situation. Manufacturers in Western Australia claim that they are. not receiving sufficient raw materials to keep their industries operating. 
SenatorFRASER. - The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited should not be allowed to hold a monopoly in the development of our iron ore resources. Even at this stage it would pay the Government to develop the iron ore resources of Western Australia. Decentralization of our great industrial fields must become a reality. 
I am not parochial. If an artisan in Western Australia cannot make good in his trade in that State he is at liberty to transfer to the eastern States, and such transfer might be to the advantage of Australia as well as to himself. The Government should prosecute vigorously the development of the mineral resources of Western Australia. I appreciate that the Government has assisted such development, but greater activity is needed. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT  (Senator James MacLachlan).  - The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I want the Government to order a general survey of factories in Western Australia capable of assisting in the production of munitions. 
No, but it has never been put into effect. 
The proposal is so old and feeble that it is my duty to try to restore it to good health. I ask the Minister  (Senator Collett)  to use his influence in Cabinet to have the survey undertaken. It appears to me that the Government is ignorant of the possibilities of development in Western Australia because it has failed to use the means of production available. Recently I visited Albany on the south coast of Western Australia. Not long ago it was an important seaport but it is now neglected. A ship rarely calls there. As a result . of the tying up of shipping which, I understand, is at the disposal of the British Government, the people of Albany are unable to ship apples or pears or even wheat. The last shipment of fat lamb carcasses was in a vessel that was sunk by a raider 400 miles off the coast of Western Australia. I believe that that was the last large ship to call at Albany. There are three workshops at Albany, one of which is capable of repairing the tailshaft of a large ocean going steamer. Such a workshop ought to be capable of producing munitions even in a small way. No attempt has been made to survey the possibilities of such workshops in Western Australia. Albany has little industrial activity other than the woollen mills and that state of affairs applies also to other towns in Western Australia and no doubt many towns throughout the Commonwealth. I am not satisfied that a complete survey has been made of the possibilities of Australia to speed up munition production. In Perth there are factories equipped with lathes used in the manufacture of tools of which there is a scarcity. The Department of 
Supply and Development is not in possession of all the information required for the proper carrying out of its work. 
What is important is not what the honorable senator thinks, but what I know. I am under the impression that the Minister  (Senator Collett)  said that a committee was appointed in Western Australia to furnish information required by the Contracts Board in Melbourne. I understand that there is such a committee in each State. I asked the Minister for Supply and Development if the committee had ever furnished a report to him. I do not think that that committee is functioning for the purpose for which it was appointed. However, the Minister for Supply and Development could inform me whether he has received any reports from the committee. I suggest that he investigate the work clone and the advice submitted by the committee so that a determination can be reached whether it should be permitted to continue functioning. I want a general survey made throughout Australia of the possibilities of industry to manufacture goods that are not now produced here but could be produced for defence purposes. I suggest that a survey should be made of the alloys associated with the manufacture of steel. In Western Australia there are large deposits of scheelite, wolfram, manganese and bismuth. Deposits of the first three minerals have been found in payable quantities. If the Government provided the financial encouragement necessary the exploitation of these mineral deposits would be expanded. There are also in Western Australia deposits of bauxite from which aluminium is extracted. It would be of great advantage to Australia if that industry could be established. There are also immense deposits of graphite in Western Australia. Even if factories were not established on a large scale for the production of munitions, great opportunities are available for a tremendous expansion of the mineral resources so necessary for the production of munitions. 
An investigation should be made in connexion with the coal deposits in Western Australia. It was mentioned by  Senator Fraser  that there is a huge deposit of iron ore at Yampi. A preliminary survey has, I believe, been made on more than one occasion, but no permanent survey has been carried out. The Government should endeavour to build up industry and develop the resources, not of particular States, but of Australia as a whole. In many respects excellent work has been accomplished, and I do not wish to take from the Government any of the praise that it has earned in that regard; but it should not be content to rest on its laurels. The time is now opportune for greater industrial expansion than has already been achieved. There should ,be a wider distribution of defence expenditure, so as to give every State an opportunity to build up its industries. We should prepare for the period when there will he a transition from war to peace-time activities. The Government now has an opportunity to consider its defence vote, with a view to spreading war expenditure over the whole of the States with an eye to future needs. 
. : - So far as the promotion of the interests of Western Australia is concerned, there is no difference between the views of Senators on the Government side and those of members of the Opposition. One statement made to-day was that hundreds of clothing workers are walking the streets of Perth unemployed. Only recently I spoke to the manager of the largest clothing manufacturing company in Western Australia, who informed, me that he could not get all of the workers he needed. On the other hand, the head of a smaller firm said that he had recently put off about twenty employees because he had no work for them to do. Within the last few days I have been informed that this man has received a contract from the Munitions Department for the manufacture of articles to the number of some tens of thousands. As to the possibility of Western Australia making a contribution to munitions production, there is a board of area management, and, as the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  has said, he has been in conversation with the  chairman  of the board within the last fourteen days in Melbourne. I also have been in conference with that official. Purchases made by the Contracts Board in "Western Australia up till recently amounted to just under £1,000,000. At the present time the Government railway workshops in that State are engaged in the production of articles to the value of over £250,000, and three or four firms have orders running into tens of thousands of pounds. Twelve months ago the representative of one small firm came to me for advice  as to conditions of tender, wondering whether his firm could undertake certain work. To-day that concern is carrying out orders, amounting in value to £7,000, for the manufacture of a small article, and the total value of the work it has undertaken runs into £15,000 or £20,000. The Government, and particularly the Minister for Munitions, is not satisfied at present with the volume of work being done by the less-populous States. We are anxious to develop to the maximum Australia's capacity to contribute to the winning of the war by an increased production of munitions, and such States will, in due course, get their share of this work. It is, however, necessary to arrange for a supply of raw materials, skilled artisans, and the proper organization of the factories. 
Much has been said about the disabilities of Tasmania in regard to defence expenditure and war contracts. Two statements have been made which appear to indicate bribery and corruption in connexion with these contracts. One statement was that a certain contractor in Melbourne was approached and told by a financial firm that, if he would use it in order to finance a contract, it would see that he got the work, I have already submitted a scheme to this chamber which would obviate any possibility of that kind of thing happening. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator may discuss the allocation of war expenditure but not the means by which the money is to be provided. 
I have been referring to the allocation of war expenditure. I heard of a case in Sydney this week, which, in my opinion, shows poor business acumen on the part of the Government with regard to a certain contract. The firm to which I am referring had not been in the habit of making a particular article required by the Government, but it put in a tender which was accepted. There is an axiom of economics and production that all costs incurred by the manufacturer of an article should be recovered by means of the price charged for it. This firm had to make dies, jigs and various small machines to enable it to complete its first order of 100 articles, and the cost of the jigs, &amp;c, was covered by the price paid. It was delighted later to get an order for a further 1,000 articles at the same price, although it should have immediately occurred to the Contracts Board that the price should have been much lower than on the first order. 
Not at all. I obtained my information from the manufacturer concerned, who also received a further order for several thousands of these articles at the same price. If proper inquiries were made with regard to contracts of this kind, a considerable saving could be effected. I have shown that the danger of corruption in regard to these contracts could be eliminated by inserting a clause in all contracts providing that the successful tenderers should if necessary be financed through the Commonwealth Bank. This would bring hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of pounds to the Government in revenue. It should be the first concern of the Government to obtain all the revenue it can, in order that taxes might be reduced. When I asked a question on this matter in the Senate, I was informed that the Government would not consider my suggestion, which I regard as a most businesslike one. 
 This motion has served a very useful purpose. 
I think that honorable senators on the Government side must have been impressed by the restraint displayed by members of the Opposition, and by the capable way in which they have approached the matter under discussion. I shall make a very small contribution to the debate. It was stated by  Senator Cunningham  that the Opposition did not desire to take from the Government any praise which was its just due in connexion with Australia's contribution to the Empire's war effort.With that sentiment I entirely agree, but members of the Opposition are sometimes able to suggest ways in which more effective work might be done. This is an all-in war, and an all-in effort by Australia is required. Full use has not been made of the whole of the available man-power of this country. I am not content to be told that unemployment has fallen to an unprecedentedly low level. It would be strange if that were not the position, considering that many millions of pounds have been expended in connexion with the war effort; but in every State a considerable number of men who are physically fit are out of employment. So long as those men remain unemployed it cannot be said that we are making a maximum war effort. It is true that in some sections of industry it is difficult to place unskilled men, although, I might observe, that difficulty is often exaggerated. Whatever may be the position in that respect, however, there is no shortage of unskilled labour. It is unnecessary for me to detail works on which unskilled men can be employed provided they are physically fit. To-day many men are not only able, but also exceedingly anxious, to do such work, because unless they do it their wives and families will not be provided for. These men could be used in connexion with our war effort in such directions as the construction of arterial roads which will be required for military transport, if, unfortunately, war should come to our shores. They could also be used in the building of emergency shelters on which comparatively very little effort is being expended at present in any part of Australia. The Government is doing a good job in certain directions ; but for that reason are we to wait until an emergency is actually upon us before we make pre parations for the safety of our own people? It is unnecessary for me to indicate further avenues in which unskilled labour could be immediately and effectively employed in connexion with our war effort. I urge the Minister to give serious consideration to the suggestions made by honorable senators in the course of this debate. 
 in reply  - The Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  stated as a reason, partly, for the centralization of the production of munitions and war material in Victoria, that three factories were in existence in that State compared with one in New South Wales. 
Yes, and prior to the outbreak of the war. I remind the Minister that on several occasions in this chamber I have urged the advantage of establishing factories adjacent to the source of supply of basic raw materials such as coal, iron and steel. I then endeavoured to illustrate my point by showing that if private enterprise intended to erect a coke works, f or instance, it would build them adjacent to supplies of coal. The Minister emphasized that a higher percentage of machine tools is being made in New South Wales than in Victoria. I do not deny that fact. However, I feel sure that it will be found that those tools are being made by big engineering firms such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and Australian Iron and Steel Limited, and such firms which are the wealthy friends of the Government. The Minister must recollect a deputation of small manufacturers which waited upon him in Sydney some time ago. They stated that they could increase tenfold their facilities for the production of machine tools within a very short time if the Government gave them the requisite orders. 
I am simply repeating what the deputation told the Minister. 
One firm, which was represented on that deputation, has since received orders for machine tools. It is turning out two or three lathes a day. Is that correct? 
I shall check up on that point. When my time expired in my opening speech I was stressing the fact that I have never suggested that the Government's defence expenditure should be allocated between the States on a £1 for £1 basis. I contend that the Government should allocate this expenditure, having regard to the economic advantages, the severity of unemployment, and the natural resources in particular States.  Senator Herbert  Hays declared that the Government is confronted with a colossal task, and is endeavouring to do a good job. I entirely agree with that statement. Every honorable senator realized the magnitude of the task which confronted the Government at the outbreak of the war, but we on this side say that, surely, after eighteen months the Government should now be in a position to rectify such anomalies and wrongs as have been pointed out in this debate. When  the honorable senator was speaking I interjected that there were 40,000 unemployed in New South 
Wale3, and another honorable senator opposite denied my statement. According to a statement issued by the New South Wales Government last week there are 2S,000 males, 7,000 females and 1.0,000 youths unemployed in that State. 
They are not the latest figures. 
Motion -  by leave  withd  rawn 
asked the 
Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that  Mr. S.  J. McGibbon, who has been appointed Commonwealth Business and Financial Representative abroad, is reported in the  West Australian  newspaper of the 1st March as having stated, regarding the length of his absence from Perth, that the position did not carry a salary, and so he said, "I am going away for as long as I. can afford it"? 
What travelling or other allowances are being paid to  Mr. McGibbon  for his services in the connexion mentioned? 
Is  Mr. McGibbon  being paid for his services on the Australian Broadcasting Commission during his absence from Australia? 
If so, what amount? 
Is  Mr. McGibbon  to be paid travelling or other allowances or fees from the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the inquiries which the  A..B.C. Weekly  states he will make on broadcasting matters in Egypt and elsewhere? 
The Acting Prime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
The press report is as stated by the honorable senator. 
Travelling allowance of £5 per day will be granted to  Mr. McGibbon  for expenses whilst overseas except that when travelling by sea or air, when the faro includes subsistence the rate will be reduced to one-fourth in accordance with the customary practice. 
No. 
See answer to No. 3. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
In view of the acute shortage of skilled tradesmen at the outbreak of the war, will the Minister take steps to ensure that war industries are not jeopardized by a situation over which the worker himself has no control? 
In order to preserve a continuous and increasing supply of skilled tradesmen, will the Minister arrange for complete exemption from military training of apprentices attending technical colleges? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers: - 
Steps have been taken to ensure that the requirements of the Army for personnel for military training do not make undue demands on industries engaged in the war effort. The list of reserved occupations provides for exemption of skilled tradesmen in war industries. 
Apprentices to trades that are engaged in war industries are included in the list of reserved occupations, and arc also exempt from military training. 
asked the Minis ter for Munitions,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the official factory employment figures for Australia as a whole show a recent increase of 9 per cent., whereas in Western Australia in particular there has been an actual decrease of . 09 per cent.? 
Is it a fact that, lacking opportunities near their homes, skilled workers in considerable numbers are leaving Western Australia to accept employment in factories in eastern States ? 
Having regard to the distance of Western Australia from the main centres of industrial activity, its resources in raw materials, its urgent defence needs, and its relatively small population, is it not the view of the Government that it is preferable, under these circumstances, to take the work to the worker rather than carry the worker to the work? 
Is it the intention of the Government to establish at an early date in Western Australia a' munitions factory on the lines of those recently sanctioned for Queensland and South Australia? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
It is understood that the Commonwealth Statistician has published figures to that effect. 
The department is aware that persons have travelled from Western Australia to the eastern States in search of employment, but it does not know the reasons which have influenced them nor the numbers. 
It is the policy of the Department of Munitions to utilize the manufacturing resources of Australia to the utmost extent, and thus orders are being placed wherever plant and machinery is available. Western Australia is receiving orders for munitions production. 
There are technical difficulties to be surmounted in establishing certain classes of munitions production in the more distant States, but the possibilities are being fully explored and the claims of Western Australia, are receiving full consideration. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Will the Postmaster-General inform the Senate of the reason for reducing the addresses and necessary information in connexion with subscribers in the last issue of the telephone directory ? 
Is it not a fact that this action causes considerable inconvenience to those who  refer  to the directory for information? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows : - 
The telephone directories were re-arranged as a matter of urgent national necessity in order to reduce the quantity of paper used and to effect savings in the cost of producing the publications. As a result it is anticipated that during 1941 the saving in the consumption of imported newsprint for telephone directory purposes will be in the vicinity of 40 per cent, of the quantity which in normal circumstances would have been used, thus representing a substantial contribution towards the conservation of the Empire's dollar exchange resources. Although entries have been condensed, no information which- is essential to the proper identification of subscribers has been omitted. 
The revised style of showing entries is substantially the same as that followed by large telephone administrations abroad, and experience indicates that it does not cause inconvenience to telephone users. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the British Government agreed that the Central Wool Committee should allocate sufficient wools to employ all scours and carbonizing workers in Australia to capacity ? 
Is it a fact that although New South Wales scours have an annual capacity of 70,000,000 lb., and during 1938-39 season actually scoured 38,195,743 lb., they were allocated only 22,191,304 lb.? 
Is it a fact that as a result 200 men have already been dismissed and 200 more men are to go at the end of March? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
Although the Commonwealth Government has more than once communicated its views to the Government of the United Kingdom, no actual agreement has yet been reached between the two Governments that the Central Wool Committee should allocate sufficient wools to employ all scouring and carbonizing works in Australia to capacity. 
By arrangement with the British Wool Control, the Central Wool Committee has to date allocated large quantities of wool for scouring and carbonizing in Australia. 
For the season 1939-40, 22,191,304 lb. of greasy wool were allocated for scouring in New South Wales and this comprised practically all the available scouring types ex appraisements. For the season 1940-41 the quantity of greasy wool allocated ex appraisements to date is 29,710.000 lb. The annual capacity of 70,000,000 lb. would appear to include output of scoured skin wool as most of the scourers in New South Wales arc also  fellmongers 
Fellmongers  are at present seeking more sheepskins than in normal times and, in addition, the Central Wool Committee is allocating for treatment a large number of sheepskins which have been appraised for and on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom. 
The Minister was advised on the 12th March by  Mr. Glasson,  secretary of the Wool and Basil Workers Union, that 200 hands had been dismissed, and that others were on notice. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
To what extent is wool being rough or semi-scoured in Australia so as to retain certain quantities of natural grease? 
Has the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research any information as to the increased durability or warmth of such wool? 
All wool being scoured for and on behalf of the Central Wool Committee under the Imperial Wool  Purchase  arrangement is scoured practically free of grease content. In New South Wales and Queensland, some lower grade wools are treated by what is known as tank washing and this method of treatment leaves from 8 per cent, to 10 per cent, of grease in the wool. 
The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has some literature on the subject but has conducted no experiments. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
On what grounds has the lay-by system been excluded from the inquiry of the special Parliamentary Committee into cash order and hire-purchase credit systems? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
The Treasurer's object in appointing a Board of Inquiry under the National Security (Inquiries) Regulations, was to obtain a report on the subject of cash order and hirepurchase systems of financing consumer credit. Lay-by systems do not come within this category. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
How many Germans and Italians have been interned in Australia? 
SenatorFOLL (through  Senator Collett).  - The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers: - 
It is not in the interests of national security to disclose the number of Germans and Italians interned in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Who fixes the Australian interest rates on Commonwealth treasury-bills and what is the usual duration of these bills? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The discount rate is fixed in consultation between the Commonwealth Bank and the Treasurer. The usual currency of the bills is three months. 

 Is it a fact that Australian banks can convert their holdings of treasury-bills into Commonwealth notes on demand? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
Commonwealth treasury-bills are rediscounted by the Commonwealth Bank at any time at rates fixed by the Commonwealth Bank when the application for rediscount is made. 
Is it a fact that Australian bankers reduced the interest rate on treasury-bills from £1 15s. per cent, to £1 10s. per cent, as from June last? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
The discount rate on treasury-bills in Australia was reduced from13/4 per cent, to11/2 per cent, on the 1st May, 1940. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government is considering the establishment of a civilian war risk insurance scheme? 
If so, is it a fact that same is to be on a contributory basis? 
Will the Government arrange that any such scheme is made a national responsibility in which established insurance companies have no place? 
Is it considered proper that information regarding this proposal should first be given to the press? 
Should not Parliament have been first consulted ? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 1 to S. The Government is at present considering the whole question of compensation in respect of death or injury suffered by civilians, or damage to property, occasioned by hostilities. No official statement has been issued to the press. The Government will make an announcement in due course. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Albany, Western Australia, and Townsville, North Queensland, have been appointed Wool Appraisement centres? 
If so, on what conditions were these appointments made, and what were the dates of such appointments? 
Has any wool been appraised at either of these centres to date? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
On 21st August, 1940, Cabinet approved of the principle of appraisements at Albany, Western Australia, and Townsville, North Queensland. 
The approval was made subject to certain conditions which were subsequently reviewed, and confirmed in the following form: - 
) That the storage and dumping facilities at the places mentioned be brought to a capacity and condition suitable for the handling of  wool at the  centre, to the satisfaction of the Central Wool Committee; 
That the Local Authorities, and the business enterprises concerned, meet the cost involved in the work referred to in (a ) . 
No. 
The Central Wool Committeehas not yet received any application from a wool selling broker for approval to act in the centres named. The Minister for Commerce is at present considering the matter with the various interests concerned, with a view to overcoming the obstacles to compliance with the above conditions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
In view of the increase in railway business resulting from the shipping shortage, will he consider exempting railway running grades from military service, such grades being drivers, firemen, engine cleaners, guards and shunters? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
It is considered that reasonable provision is made in the present list of reserved occupations which includes engine drivers, guards and shunters of all ages, firemen (locomotive) over 25 years and engine cleaners over 23 years of age. 
asked the 
Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Are the conditions under which finance is provided for the erection of annexes in each State for production of defence requirements uniform to each State? 
If any variation is made, why such variation? 
What are the general conditions under which such finance is provided? 
Will the Minister make a general statement on the questions referred to? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Yes. The conditions of finance are approximately uniform in all States but the amount of finance depends upon the output being planned for the annexe. 
Variations are made only to meet local conditions - the department is prepared to meet any representations in that respect. 
The general conditions are that the Commonwealth provides the machinery and plant, and if desired by the State authorities finances the erection of the building usually by way of loan free of interest, to be repaid at the expiry of ten years after deduction of any depreciation which may have been charged into production of munitions. 4.  (a)  To provide for increased production it has been necessary to obtain the assistance of engineering industry. Annexes have, therefore, been attached to commercial establishments and State Railways Departments principally for the manufacture of ammunition and ammunition components. In certain cases the Commonwealth has provided the buildings. In other cases buildings have been provided by annexe operators and plant installed therein at Commonwealth expense. 
The South Australian Government had provided £20,000 for buildings for tool and gauge manufacture. The Commonwealth provided £33,500 for building the railway annexe, subject to it being taken over at a valuation by the South Australian Government when no longer required for munitions. The Tasmanian railway annexe is much smaller, and £14,000 is being loaned by the Commonwealth for the building. Interest will be charged at 4 per cent., but not until the State uses it. Meanwhile during its use for the Commonwealth the capital will be depreciated at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum against costs of shell production. The same principles apply to Western Australia and will be applied in South Australia and elsewhere on settlement. Time did not permit of such a system being worked out for the earlier annexes. In all railway annexes the Commonwealth provides machinery and equipment for the munitions production. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
.  Did the Minister make a public statement on 11th March, 1941, on the compulsory storage of essential foodstuffs, in which he encouraged private firms to finance the storage of their own commodities? 
Is the object of such encouragement the saving of cost to the Government? 
What steps, if any, are to be taken to prevent the firms concerned from passing on the cost of such arrangements to the consumer ? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 1 and 2. The Minister made a statement on the subject of emergency supplies of foodstuffs and household goods, on the 9th of March, and he made a further statement on the subject in Parliament on the 25th of March. The plan, as explained by the Minister, contains provisions for financial co-operation by Commonwealth and State Governments. 
It is not likely that any cost will be passed on to the consumer. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What was the contract price paid for the excavation of the dam or earth tank constructed for the aerodrome at Geraldton? 
What price was paid by the successful tenderer to the sub-contractor who did the actual work of completion? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - ].. This item was portion of a contract of £2,335 let for stormwater drainage. 
The sub-contractor who did the actual work on the dam received £280 from the contractor. 
To some degree this bill is of importance, but I regret that it is not of a more important character. If there is any activity which requires a searching inquiry and extensive reformation it is the control of radio in this country. In this chamber at least, it has been common knowledge for many years that there is intense dissatisfaction with the administration of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Some years ago I played no small part in the criticism of that body voiced in this chamber. I had good reasons for the criticism which I then offered, and I have good reasons  for even more severe criticism to-day, although that criticism would not now be concerned so much with administrative details as with vital principles and interests which are at stake. The Government would have been well advised had it postponed the introduction of this measure, or refrained from bringing down the bill at all. It would have been more fitting had the Government shownthat it has a greater appreciation of the immensity of this wonderful modern physical factor which we know as radio, and its relationship to the people and to the Government of this country. In Avireless, there is a most powerful instrument for the dissemination of ideas. That being generally admitted every precaution should be taken to see that control is exercised by somebody responsible to the Parliament of this country, and through Parliament to the people. Such a person should possess an understanding of what a wonderful power radio possesses for the formation of public opinion. It must be obvious to the Government, if not to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, that radio is very closely allied to the press of this country. Later I shall show just how close that alliance is. In fact, the degree to which the press and the radio are able to mould public opinion and influence it in the desired direction is such that to-day only one class of public opinion is being developed and fostered by wireless transmission. 
I made no such assertion, and I have not said anything that could have conveyed that impression. But if I can show that this bill is only playing with the subject of broadcasting, does nothing to benefit the people of this country or to ensure that, so far as the national stations are concerned, opportunity shall be given to all classes of people who desire to mould public opinion, I shall at least be making a suggestion which, if adopted, would be of value to the nation. 
The Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay),  in his second-reading speech, quoted remarks made by the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr. Hughes)  some time ago. I shall not read the whole of the paragraph, but I direct attention to the following passage: - 
It will have a potent influence on speech. That is most desirable, because slip-shod speech connotes slip-shod thinking. It will educate the people to an appreciation of the higher classes of music, and instruct them in literary, scientific, and general knowledge. 
Then, according to the Minister, the late  Mr. W.  A. Holman, said - 
The proposed commission is not to prepare a balance-sheet which is to bo measured in pounds, shillings and pence. No doubt it will be expected to make broadcasting pay . . . but not by appealing to the most ignorant prejudices of the community and prostituting this new and extraordinary scientific service to the baser instinct of the poorest, intellectually, of our community . . . This is an opportunity to revitalize the spiritual and intellectual life of the nation. 
Both the statements were timely. I agree also with what these gentlemen said should be the ideal, but I do not agree with the late  Mr. Holman's  statement that. "no doubt it would be expected to make broadcasting pay". Why should the commission be expected to make broadcasting pay? If the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or any other body set up by the Government to conduct a public utility, has a surplus at the end of its financial term, it is obvious to me at any rate that either the service that should be given to the community for the tax which is imposed upon it is not being provided, or that those who are doing the work of that instrumentality are not being paid sufficient for their services. I do not suggest that there should not be a balance. There should always be a reserve to cover contingencies, but large surpluses should not be accumulated by governmental undertakings which are charged with the responsibility of rendering a service to the nation, and no higher service could be rendered than that to which the Australian Broadcasting Commission is committed. Of course, a balance-sheet is issued annually and placed before members of Parliament for scrutiny. I shall read to the Senate a brief summary of the Australian Broadcasting . Commission's eighth annual report and balance.sheet: for the year ended the 30th June, 1940- 
Revenue is shown at £733,865, an increase of £53,732 for the year. 
The commission has a book surplus of £47,000, It was £100,493 the previous year. 
There are 80,721 more listeners, bringing the total to 1,212,581, whose licence-fees contributed £700,071 of the total revenue, an increase of £41,335. 
Assets, at £513.254, are £02,380 higher than in 1940. 
At this stage I should like to express very definitely my views on what national stations should be accomplishing, and what the Government should do in regard to the matter. If I had my way I would abolish the Australian Broadcasting Commission. There is no need for it. Very often when such bodies are set up by governments, the creature becomes greater than its creator. I am glad that, in some respects, this bill does make provision for decreasing the virulence of that effect. That is one satisfactory feature of the bill. As a matter of fact, to be perfectly candid, it is the only good feature that I find in the bill. There should be no delegation of the power of this Parliament to commissions which are superior to Parliament in their daily operation. There should be in this chamber a minister for broadcasting, or a representative of that minister should he be a member of the House of Representatives. Broadcasting should be the responsibility of such a responsible minister. In a democracy, the people elect the members of Parliament, and through its Ministers can exercise complete control over the creature which it creates. I have no desire at this stage to comment upon the individuals who comprise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have spoken on the subject on different occasions and I may have to refer to it again in this speech. I shall quote from a letter which I received from the late  Mr. Savage,  in 1937, when Prime Minister of New Zealand, after the New Zealand broadcasting station 2YA, which I understand is the most powerful in the Southern Hemisphere, was officially opened by  Mr. Savage.  I received the letter first because  Mr. Savage  was my personal friend, and secondly because I had listened-in to his talk on the day the station was opened, and to the address delivered by his Minister for Finance  (the  Hon.  Walter Nash) from Geneva and relayed to New Zealand. I wrote to  Mr. Savage  expressing my pleasure at having beard his talk and he sent me the letter from which I shall quote two extracts : - I think it is a great pity that the Labour movement in Australia is sp handicapped in the matter of radio broadcasting facilities, but, of course, until Labour in this country gained the Treasury benches it was in a similar position. We were also placed at a disadvantage in the matter of the dissemination of our policy through the press. The New Zealand newspapers, with few exceptions, being hostile to Labour, we naturally received very little support front that source. The Labour papers,  The Standard  (weekly) and  Grey River Argus  (daily), were the only journals we could rely upon to make a fight for us. The  Grey River Argus  is published in  Greymouth  and has a circulation which covers only the West Coast of the South Island.  The Standard  is published in Wellington, and whilst it lias greatly increased in the last twelve .months, its circulation before the elections was not large, and, of course, a weekly paper is wholly inadequate when righting against the dailies. We will therefore find the broadcasting service of great assistance now that we control it. 
I consider that the Government of this country should control the nation's broadcasting service, although I realise that the use the present Government would make of that service would not please me on all occasions. I shall now quote some of the statements made hy  Mr. Savage  in his broadcast address when he opened the New Zealand broadcasting station on that wonderful afternoon in 1937. He said - 1937 is the centenary of the invention of lite Morse telegraph which has played such a wonderful part in world affairs during the lifetime of many who are still with us; and radio broadcasting is undoubtedly one of the most revolutionary agencies of modern times. 
In Australia, the control of broadcasting has , been handed over by Parliament to a commission consisting of a few men and one woman.  Mr. Savage  proceeded : - 
Radio will soon be as necessary for the mind of an active citizen as water is for the body, and will be laid on to every home in a similar way. It is the instrument  par excellence  for unifying the thought of mankind and making possible a real democracy - for training men and women to consider different opinions and so developing that thoughtful tolerance upon which peace and democracy are based. 
While the chief broadcasting stations are owned and controlled by the state, as in the case of New Zealand, vested interests are not likely to be given preference over the common welfare. 
No space limit can be set to broadcasting - it scorns national boundaries, and conquers space so easily that, in sympathetic hands, it will do much to remove international misunderstandings and other human barriers to universal peace. 
We in New Zealand are anxious to listen to the voices and messages of the peoples of other nations; we are also anxious that they should hear our voices and messages, and we propose to plan accordingly. In a few minutes' time the great possibilities of radio will be illustrated by an address which will be delivered at Geneva by the  Hon.  Walter Nash, Minister of Finance, and relayed in New Zealand. 
As a means of publicity radio stands in a class by itself - it delivers messages as between citizens and nations just as they are spoken and for that alone we should be truly thankful. 
The New Zealand Broadcasting Service is gradually becoming the Information Bureau of the Dominion, and in the near future it will be the centre of a news service which will bc first-hand, prompt, and practically universal in its application to New Zealand citizens. 
Those words of  Mr. Savage  expressed a noble conception of the power and usefulness of radio broadcasting. There is no evidence in the bill under discussion, or in the activities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, that we in Australia have risen to such a noble conception of this powerful instrument of propaganda. 
I noted that the Postmaster-General went to some pains in his second-reading speech to explain the activity of the commission in relation 'to radio talks. All the facts that he gave are more or less elaborated in the commission's last annual report. After pointing out that the discussion of controversial subjects is a stimulus to thought and an essential and valuable element in democratic communities, the Postmaster-General said : - 
Indeed, this attitude towards freedom of discussion of controversial questions is not only characteristic of democratic peoples all over the world, but is one of the features which distinguishes Democracy most sharply from Totalitarian states. Some years ago, thu House of Commons, discussing the activities of the British Broadcasting Corporation, resolved "that controversial matter is right not excluded from broadcast programmes, but that the Governors should ensure the effective expression of all important opinion relating thereto ". Later, a representative committee of inquiry into broadcasting in England reaffirmed and enlarged on this view in tinfoil owing words: - 
We think it important that controversial topics should continue to be discussed. If broadcasting is to present a reflection of its time, it must include matters which are iii dispute. If it is to hold public interest, it must express living thought. If it is to educate public opinion, it must look upon tinquestions of the hour from many angles. 
I make bold to say that in Australia one cannot get the national stations to broadcast talks on all angles of subjects in dispute. I do not refer to controversial subjects directly connected with the war, but I contend that the rights of minorities in this country are not protected by the policy adopted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission with respect to the broadcasting of talks on controversial subjects over the national stations. If one wishes to have a talk of that character broadcast, one must go to a commercial station and pay for the service. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

A remark of mine prior to the suspension of the sitting prompted an interjection from an honorable senator opposite to the effect that the commission had nothing to do with the commercial broadcasting stations. Of course, I know that, but surely it is appropriate to say that the Government ought to have something to do with those stations. In the second-reading debate on this bill, I think that I have the right to state the opinion of the Opposition with regard to wireless broadcasting generally. I have made reference to the alliance between the press and the radio. Those of us who have taken an intelligent interest in this matter have noticed that the press has been gradually acquiring the ownership of many broadcasting stations, and we now get news from the syndicated press not only through the newspapers, but also over the air. A Washington message states - 
The Federal Communications Commission plans an investigation to determine the policy concerning newspaper ownership of radio stations. 
The action was prompted by the increasing number of applications from newspapers for permission to operate stations on the high frequency system. The commission said that the action did not imply opposition to newspaper ownership of radio stations. 
SenatorCollett. - What does that indicate? 
That there is a growing public fear that, instead of an informed matured public opinion, the people are being fed on the opinions of the owners of the great capitalist newspapers. A great republic with which Australia has recently been fraternizing considers that there is something sinister in this powerful combination of radio and newspaper activities. The United States of America is not alone in this fear. The following statement was published in the  Canberra Times  of the 26th June, 1937 : - 
About a year ago, a great deal was said from both sides of. Parliament about regulations made for the purpose of limiting ownership of wireless stations. At that time, the Minister for Defence named some companies that were steadily extending their grip on radio stations and there was agreement that a danger existed of radio stations, which are, to some extent, a natural monopoly, coming into the control of a few companies. The spokesmen of these interests have been busy, however, and little has been heard of these regulations since. Radio stations have been purchased by companies already owning chains of stations and there are fewer individual owners of radio stations to-day than 12 months ago. Some of the big radio companies make no secret of their interstate networks. Some are busily extending their grip with Ministerial patronage. One of the companies mentioned by the Minister for Defence had its new station opened by the Prime Minister recently. Apparently the regulations have been allowed to die, for there canbe no other explanation of the absence of signs of their enforcement. 
In its issue of the 2nd December, 1938, the  Canberra Times  further stated - 
Every wave length is a monopoly and every radio broadcasting licence is a monopolistic right. Why these monopolies were ever alienated has never been explained. Whythey should continue to be the property of private interest cannot the explained. The time has come when the ownership of all radio rights should be strictly reserved by the Government and the private exploitation of public opinion and the degradation of public entertainment by private radio monopolists terminated. If we do not want Hitlers and Mussolinis to run this country, we must not only prevent their advent to office in our governments but we must prevent them dictating public policy and controllingpublic affairs for self-interest and enrichment to the detriment of the public. For thus the bulwarks of our liberties are to-day being assailed. 
Ever since the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I have been an applicant for a broadcasting licence for the Brisbane Trades and Labour Council, and I have been told that no wave length is available for that body. Although I am not a radio technician I do not believe a word of that, because since my application has been lodged radio stations have been opened under the aegis of the Labour party's political opponents in various parts of Australia. 
The fact remains that, under the present control, one section of the community has not a fair chance over the air. I do not ask for a chain of Labour broadcasting stations, but I claim that the Government should take control of the whole system. When a change of government occurs the Labour party will at least have the same opportunity as its opponents have had. 
The Leader of the Senate concluded his speech by expressing the pious hope that broadcasting would not become the plaything of party politics. 
Because that is all that it was. If the Minister believes in the party to which he belongs, he should drop this sneering at party politics, because all members of this Parliament arc adherents of political parties. If he believes in the policy of his party, why sneer at it? I do believe in the policy of my party, and I believe there is nothing equal to it for the interests of this nation. I recall that the Canberra correspondent to the  Sydney Morning Herald  recently referred to three-card tricksters, and added, " Not of the political variety ". Such sneering at party politics is ill-advised and wholly unjustifiable. In a leading article regarding this bill on the 21st March, the  Sydney Morning Herald  stated - 
The useful provisions of the hill, including the clarification of the commission's legitimate sphere of activities, arc so slight that it is haul to understand why tile Government should introduce a broadcasting bill at all, unless it were prepared to carry out  thorough-going  reforms. 
My complaint with regard to the bill  is  that it will accomplish practically nothing. The only good thing that it will do will be to give to the Government the power to veto decisions of the corn mission in certain circumstances. I had hoped for something better than that. The Opposition accepts the measure for what it is worth, and hopes that before it emerges from die committee stage it will be made more useful than it now is by the addition of certain amendments which tlie Opposition proposes to submit. 
In his second-reading speech the Minister said - 
After the outbreak of war, a full-time news representative was appointed in London, and the commission also secured a service from the Exchange Telegraph Agency. In April, 1040, the commission dispensed with the Australian Associated Press service which, up to then, had been its main source of overseas news, and purchased the right to re-broadcast any or all British Broadcasting Corporation bulletins in full. For this right it agreed to be responsible for the payment to Australian Associated Press of £3,000 per annum, 1 have never heard of such a racket in nil my life. This Government had to go cap in hand to the press of this country to get the right to broadcast over its own radio stations information which it thinks of importance to the people of this country. "We talk of democracy, yet this is the kind of thing we hear in a secondreading speech by a Minister of State for the Commonwealth ! Then the Minister went on to say - lui If of which was to be contributed by t.he Australian Federation of Commercial Broadcasting Stations who were thereby entitled to re-broadcast the British Broadcasting Corporation news bulletins. 
The Mother of Parliaments, and the great city of London where the British Broadcasting Corporation operates, are anxious to give to Australia news from the centre of the Empire, hut before we can get it we have to subsidize the press of this country. I am not quite sure whether that agreement is still in force. If it is, it is a disgrace to our so-called democracy. 
It is a sorry state of affairs if Australia has to go cap in hand to the syndicated press of this country before it can inform the people over the air what is going on in other parts of the world. 
I notice that the bill contains a proposal for an increase of the number of members of the commission. In my opinion, an increase, would be anything but satisfactory;  J  desire to see the commission abolished. The Opposition will have nothing to do with this proposal except in certain circumstances. We are satisfied that five is a. sufficient number of members, and, if that number is to be retained, we wish to see a Labour representative placed on the commission. If the Government increases the membership to seven, wo shall fight for the appointment of two I/a bour men. If, on the other hand, it is intended that thu membership remain at five. Labour shall nsk for one representative. The Government also proposes to stagger the membership of the commission. That is designed deliberately to prevent Labour from ever securing more than one representative on the commission. I am now assuming that the Government intends to give to Labour at least, one representative. In respect of clause 17 the PostmasterGeneral in his second-rending speech said - 
This clause has huon framed with the. intention that the commission shall act under the powers conferred on it  by  the act, and shall only be subject to restraint when any of the actions of the commission are considered to be at variance with national or imperial policy or in conflict with public interest. 
I submit that the Government should always have the final say irrespective of the point at issue. 
Of course; surely the Government which creates the commission is superior to its creature. 
The Government is merely the executive of the Parliament, and we are merely the executive of the people. Under clause 17 the Governor-General in Council, which means the Cabinet, will be empowered to exercise a veto over the commission, but then the Government proposes to circumscribe the powers of that veto. The Commonwealth Bank Board is analogous to the Broadcasting Commission. I remind honorable senators that the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems stated that, in the final analysis, the Government must lay down policy, and if the Government and the Bank Board cannot come to an agreement upon any point, then the Government's policy should prevail. I submit, therefore, that in this case the Government should lay down the policy, and itsdecision should be final when its policy conflicts with a decision of the commission. 
I now wish to refer to the information supplied by the present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Harrison)  when he was Postmaster-General, in reply to a request by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives to bring up to date the return published in  Hansard  on the 25 th August, 1937, showing the ownership of B-class broadcasting stations. The list supplied by the PostmasterGeneral shows that the ownership of the commercial broadcasting stations is gradually being absorbed into fewer and fewer hands. It gives details of the ownership of the different stations, and reveals the amount of shares which various commercial broadcasting companies own in other broadcasting companies. It is evidence of a complete link-up between the press and the radio in this country. This measure does not deal with B class stations, but I submit that the Government should entirely control broadcasting in this country. At present we have two divisions; first, the national stations; and. secondly, the commercial stations; but already we have ample evidence of a combination between the press and the radio which is dangerous, and, therefore, should be prevented. 
Reverting to the commission itself, honorable senators who were here five or six years ago will recall that I then raised some very pertinent questions with regard to the whole subject of broadcasting. I submitted what I considered to be a serious position with regard to the activities of the Broadcasting Commission in Queensland and New South Wales. On that matter I interviewed  Mr. Cleary,  who is still the  chairman  of the commission. He received me very courteously. I placed before him what I considered to be a very serious condition of affairs. Anticipating from what I gathered from him that an inquiry would be held into the matter I wrote to him on the 20th August, 1934, as follows: - 
Re previous correspondence and interview, I have now to advise you that the following persons desire to appear at the inquiry which you will institute into the position. 
It is not necessary to further explain to you my desires in the matter. They were stated in Parliament both by myself and  Mr. George  Lawson, M.H.R. (Brisbane), and in our interview later with your good self. 
With that letter I submitted an enclosure giving the names of six persons in Queensland, and five in New South Wales, who were anxious to give evidence at such an inquiry. On the 29th August, 1934, I received the following reply: - 
Dear  Sir, 

 Mr. Cleary has asked me to acknowledge receipt of your letter enclosing list of persons to whom you referred in your interview with him. 
Yours faithfully, 
MacDonald. 
The interest which the commission takes in representations made to it by responsible members of Parliament is evidenced in this case. Up to the 2nd November of the same year it had taken no action in this matter. On that date I forwarded the following letter to  Mr. Cleary  :  - 
Further to previous correspondence and with reference to yours of the 20th August last, will you kindly inform me what progress, if any, has been made in connexion with the promised inquiry into administration matters in Queensland and New South Wales. 
On the 5th November I received the following reply: - 
Bear  Senator Collings, 
Replying to your letter of the 2nd instant, I brought this matter before the commission, which decided that no further action was called for. 
Yours faithfully, 
j. CLEARY (Chairman) . 
The facts which I placed before the commission on that occasion certainly deserved more than the scant courtesy revealed in the commission's failure to take action from the 20th August until the 2nd November, and its action in closing the matter with such a curt reply. That is one reason why I submit that we cannot afford to have this great activity controlled by anybody but the government of this country whatever form of government that may be. The whole history of the personnel of the commission condemns the commission itself. Particularly is this criticism justified when one knows the members and their capacity to do their job. None of them possesses the requisite qualifications for the job they arc asked to do. 
I am not a candidate for membership of the commission. I have not the qualifications for the work, but, even so, I could do a better job than some of the members of the commission. In order to emphasize the necessity for the Government to take complete control of this great activity I shall read the following list of office-holders in New South Wales under the commission : - 
J. A. Moses, general manager ; T. W.  Bearup,  Federal supervisor:  Dr. Barry  (a medical man), controller of programmes:  Mr.  Sibary,  assistant controller of programmes;  Mr. W.  Donelly,  programme director;  Mr. James,  controller of music;  Mr. Ewart  Chappele,  assistant controller of music;  Mr.  Himmer,  controller of celebrity concerts;  Mrs. Clark,  publicity officer;  Mr. Hughes  Hal hit, liaison officer;  Mr. G.  Spencer, gramophone officer;  Mr.  Bernett,  concert manager:  Mr. Leggett,  Federal sports manager;  Mr. Molesworth,  talks editor;  Mr. Bronner,  educational editor;  Mr. Sullivan,  talks editor;  Mr. Barton,  educational editor;  Mr. Darling,  technical officer;  Mr. Fraser,  musical arranger;  Mr. Cross,  assistant musical arranger;  Mr. Lawrence,  assistant musical arranger;  Mr. Lamb,  correspondence clerk:  Mr. Denison,  legal advisor;  Mr. Holman,  secretary;  Mr. Kirk,  manager for New South Wales;  Mr. Wells,  correspondence clerk;  Mr. G.  Scott, studio supervisor;  Mr.  Dibley,  assistant studio supervisor;  Mr. Hall,  technical advisor;  Mr. Alex  Gordon (son of Lady Gordon), announces continuity;  Mr. Cecil,  producer;  Mr. Wheeler,  producer;  Mr. Russell  Scott, producer;  Mr. S.  Wheeler, continuity writer;  Mr. MacDonald,  assistant continuity writer; Miss Ross, publicity officer;  Mr. Kerr,  sports talk supervisor;  Mr.  Deens,  news editor;  Mr. Murphy,  assistant news editor ;  Mrs. Moore,  women's talks editor and selector of men announcers;  Mr. Clewlow,  Federal plays, and  Mrs. Watts,  hostess. 
I have met the- general manager,  Mr. Moses.  As the result of conversations I have had with him, I think that he is the right man in the right place. The list I read is certainly imposing. I am not a judge of the qualifications of these officials, and I do not criticize them in any way. All I say is that the list is sufficient to indicate the importance of broadcasting operations. It justifies my contention that this activity should be completely under the control of the Government. 
I regret that the Government does not propose under the bill to effect a complete re-organization of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. We must accept the measure because it goes a step in the direction we desire. However, I hope that the day is not far distant when this Government will see the wisdom of taking full control of all radio activity in this country. If it does not do so, then I hope that a government of another kind will soon effect this long-overdue reform. 
I shall refer to two aspects of the second-reading speech delivered by the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay).  My first reference will be to the emphasis laid by him on education. The honorable gentleman quoted the characteristic statement made by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  that the Australian Broadcasting Commission would be composed of men possessing qualities which would ensure that broadcasting would be used, not only for entertainment, but also for the education of the people. I contend that the broadcasting commission is not a medium of education. I admit that it is a medium of entertainment; of the musical selections broadcast some are very good  and others not so good. It is a medium for supplying news, which is very heavily censored and, therefore, practically valueless. It is a method of broadcasting censored addresses on various subjects. On the subject of censorship I shall refer to an invitation that was issued by the broadcasting commission, in 1938, to Judge Foster of the County Court of Victoria. He was asked, among others, I assume, to broadcast an address on the freedom of speech, which he consented to do, over station 3AR, Melbourne. The 2nd May, 193S, was the time chosen for the address, which was to be part of a series entitled " Changing Viewpoints ". Having submitted the manuscript of his address, Judge Foster was invited to discuss it with an official of the Victorian division of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, who informed him that large sections of the address, which he specified, must be deleted before the talk could be given. Those sections included passages relating to' censorship by church and government and to his own personal experience of official interference with th&lt;; liberty of the subject. He proposed to state facts - not mere assumptions, opinions, views, comments or criticism. In the eighth annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended the 30th June, 1940. there  appears  this statement - 
Any aspiring speaker may have his scrip read and be given an audition. Most serious subjects are to an extent controversial; in respect of some there is wide and well-marked  cleavage  of opinion; but the commission lias not hesitated to programme them on that account, lt recognizes the necessity, in the interests of  democracy,  of stimulating listeners to form their own opinions rather than .adopt standardized opinions. 
The body which issued the report containing that passage suppressed facts which cannot, be denied and which have been stated over and over again. Yet the commission claims that it allows freedom of discussion. After having had that interview, Judge Foster wrote to the commission as follows: - f have spent the hours since our interview in thinking over the problems it involved, I have come to the conclusion that it is impossible to fit my thoughts on the subject of "Freedom of Speech" within the narrow limits which the restrictions which you so  politefully  and tactfully indicated allow. 
It is a little humorous, perhaps, to contemplate a broadcast on free speech under restrictions that are so obviously a denial of it. 
With regrets, I must decline to speak on this subject under the limitations the Australian Broadcasting Commission feels compelled to impose. 
I should like my withdrawal to be regarded as a protest against this denial of democratic liberty. 
Judge Foster is a man whose standing and probity in the community are equal, and possibly superior, to the standing and probity of  Mr. Cleary,  who is  chairman  of the commission.  Mr. Cleary,  according to the Melbourne  Argus,  dated Thursday, the 5th May, 1938, said - 
He had approved of the censorship which had been applied to Judge Foster's notes. The address contained an unnecessary attack, he said, and would have had a bad influence on a section of the listening public. It was unnecessarily offensive. 
Later I shall read the portions which were censored from Judge Foster's proposed address, so that, honorable senators will be able to form their own judgment of the bias displayed by  Mr. Cleary  when lie said that the address was offensive; but, first, I shall give the text on which Judge Foster proposed to make hi.address. I shall quote that text, because 1. consider it appropriate to the times through which we are passing when we have so many persons, who, regarding themselves as the intellectual superiors of their fellows, use the powers they possess to suppress others who would not state opinions in conformity with their own, and then claim to be democrats. Without any hope of my suggestion, being accepted, I submit that Ministers might well have the text of Judge Foster'? proposed address typed and pasted in their bats for reference. Judge Foster proposed to take as the text for his address the following from Milton's  Areopagitica.  dated 1644- 
Censorship will conduce to the discouragement of all learning and the stop of truth not only by  disexercising  and blunting our abilities in what we know already, but by hindering and cropping the discovery tli.it. might be yet further made both in religion* and civil wisdom. If the waters of truth flow not in perpetual progression, they sicken into a muddy pool of conformity and tradition. 
To create the muddy pool of conformity and tradition is exactly what the Australian Broadcasting Commission would do. The sections objected to in the address proposed to  be  delivered by Judge Foster read: - 
The world owes much to the early Greeks as the originators of liberty of thought and discussion, but by the Middle Ages we find Reason in chains, and a fight for freedom against the powerful opposition or the organized Church of the time that has not been completely won yet. 
No particular church was named. Judge Foster decided to state his case as dispassionately and as fairly as one should in the circumstances. It continued: - 
The Church's desire to drive out heresy may have been perfectly well motived, but it nevertheless resulted in enormous physical suffering, as well as a considerable suppression of freedom. Heresy included all matters from opinions about the circulation of the blood - for which,  Dr. Harvey  was condemned - to the denial of a geocentric universe, for which Galileo suffered imprisonment and worse. As late as the beginning of last century sixteen booksellers in England were in prison at the one time for selling Tom Paine's  Age of Ranson,  and as recently as twenty years ago a Victorian publisher was sentenced to six months' imprisonment for publishing a facetious article on a religious topic. 
That is what this gentleman,  Mr Cleary,  decided was offensive and should not be broadcast Another passage which was censored referred to Judge Foster's personal experiences with a government. What he said is based on fact, because I was present when he was arrainged  before the court and charged under the War Precautions Act. Had he not been the capable lawyer that he is possibly he would have been either fined or sentenced to jail. The crown prosecutor at the time, just as crown prosecutors do today, tried to submit as evidence that which was not evidence according to the law, but Judge Foster was able to convince the magistrate of that fact, and the evidence was not allowed. This is what lie had to say about his own experiences : - 
During the two conscription campaigns I opposed the Government proposals and engaged myself upon the publicity side of the  anti-conscriptionist's  campaign. I thus had an opportunity of becoming acquainted at first hand with the suppressive rigors of the censorship imposed under the War Precautions Act. Concerning these times,  Dr. Bean, Dr. Jauncey  and Professor Scott have all written, but none of . them has by a long shot estimated the extent and severity of that censorship. Few public men on the anti-conscription side escaped prosecution or conviction, though they, as it turned out, represented the majority of citizens and soldiers. I myself was prosecuted and subjected to a long trial for a speech I made in a city hall, in which I had the audacity to criticize the Prime Minister, the Right Honorable William Morris Hughes. . . 
That is another reference which  Mr. Cleary  describes as offensive. It is a fact, which has been stated over and over again. Yet we are asked by  Mr. Cleary  and his colleagues to believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission recognizes the necessity in the interests of democracy to stimulate listeners to form their own opinions rather than adopt standard opinions. That was stated in the commission's report for 1940-41. Judge Foster's proposed address was censored in 1938, before the war. We are asked to accept the members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission as democrats, as the educators of what they regard as public opinion. In his address Judge Foster proposed to say something which is appropriate nowadays, seeing that suppression is being practised with greater severity. Another portion reads - 
It is interesting to note in passing that the development of executive action is one of the gravest menaces of democracy, lt was uwu at its worst during the Great War, when the legislative powers of Parliament were largely usurped by the Cabinet. The War Precautions Act had conferred powers on the  Government-in-Council  to make regulations upon almost any subject. . This power was freely availed of, and laws in the shape oT regulations were turned out over night at secret meetings by Cabinet, sometimes two members only. Under these regulations all the fundamental liberties were curtailed or destroyed ; trial by jury; sanctity of home; habeas corpus, Magna Charta; free speech. The story of some of these regulations would make astounding reading to this generation - but I am to talk about free speech .... 
The series of regulations being issued at present will also make astounding reading for generations to come. 
That is absolutely incorrect. All I have said is that in his proposed speech Judge Foster directed attention to what had been done to deny freedom of speech to citizens. He intended to give information based on facts, yet; because he proposed to make those facts public, his speech was censored. That occurred in 193S, before. the war started. From information which I have received, I believe that hundreds of instances of harsh censorship could be cited. I propose to mention another instance to give an idea of the policy that has been followed by those in control of our national stations.  Mr. R.  W. G. Mackay, who arrived in Australia from England recently, and who, T understand, is a solicitor and a member of the British Labour party holding a very responsible position in the community, proposed to give an address over the air. He submitted the text of his broadcast to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and I shall read to the Senate some of the passages which were censored. 
Judge Foster's speech was censored on behalf of the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Mr. Mackay's  speech was to have been delivered over a national station. 
I fail to see that that makes any difference. I can quite conceive of those responsible for censoring Judge Foster's proposed address taking similar action with respect to the address which  Mr. Mackay  proposed to give. 
If the censoring was not done by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the honorable senator is not in order in proceeding on those lines. 
By whom? 
If it was not censored by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or at the direction of the commission, the honorable senator is not in order. 
The honorable senator must accept the Minister's assurance that the censoring was not done by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and that being so, the point he is discussing is irrelevant. 
I contend that the rigid censorship of broadcast matter both before the war. and since the outbreak of the war, is unduly harsh. I do not know whether the responsibility lies with the Australian Broadcasting Commission, with the .Department of Information, or with anybody else. 

 - Senator Cameron is pursuing a border-line argument. At the moment he is dealing with censorship generally, and that has some relation to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Yes. 
50. 
The honorable senator must accept the Minister's assurance. 
Honorable senators will admit that during the past niue years enormous development has taken place and that despite whatever mistakes may have  been  made, the Broadcasting Commission has never allowed party politics to influence its deliberations. I hope, therefore, that in view of its great national and international importance broadcasting will never become the plaything of party politics. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission is not the plaything of party politics; it is the instrument of party politics. The commission is a creation of a party government. Most of its members are famous or infamous for the stand they have taken against the Labour party. In my opinion, party politics in the light of the, circumstances in which we are living, is a better proposition than a dictatorship similar to that of Germany 
Or Italy. Australia would have a dictatorship if we did not have party politics. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not discussing the subject-matter of the bill. 
Order ! The honorable senator must address himself to the subject-matter of the bill. 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill. 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the discussion on this bill. Since hearing the speech of the Minister who introduced it, I have studied the measure carefully. Two years ago there was a complaint in this Chamber that the Australian Broadcasting Commission was neglecting Australian artists and paying high salaries to artists from overseas, and therefore I am glad to find that, whereas last year the commission paid £26,810 to visiting artists, the amount paid to Australian artists was £279,580. That proves conclusively that the complaints made here have had some effect in encouraging Australian art. Since the Australian Broadcasting Commission was appointed, there have been great developments in connexion with broadcasting. The commission has had at its disposal considerable sums of money. In 1932 the number of licences gran-ted to listeners was 362,936; to-day it is 1,268,130. Those figures show that the commission is instructing the people as well as entertaining them. People of all ages, from the kindergarten stage onward, can obtain valuable information, which should be of great 'benefit to them, by listening to the various sessions of the commission's programme. Already there is one lady on the commission, and if two more members are to be appointed I suggest that one of them should be a lady. There is a strong body of opinion in my State in favour of that being done. Women understand children, and an additional woman member of the commission would be able to suggest programmes which would be of benefit to them. I agree with those who say that as only one political party is represented on the commission the Labour Party also is entitled to representation. I do not wish to introduce politics into the control of the commission, but it seems to me that the strongest party in this chamber should have some say in the making of appointments to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I observe that the  chairman  is to be appointed for three years' and is to be eligible for reappointment; 
That, I , believe, is the usual provision. I often wonder what the emoluments of the members of the commission amount to when all payments to them are taken into consideration. I have in mind the amounts paid to members of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I know  Mr. Moses,  the general manager of the commission, and some members of the commission.  Mr. Orchard  is an old friend of mine. He has done good work. I hope that two more appointments will be made to the commission, and that one of them will be a woman. In these days women are doing the work of men to a greater degree than formerly. They frequently complain that they are not paid at the same rates as men. In some respects the women of Australia are showing up better than the men. I should like to see another woman on the commission if additional appointments are "being made. 
.- Following my usual practice, my remarks on this bill will be brief. I stand, and have always stood, for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which is a. national body unlike the B class stations, which are controlled by private enterprise and used to the detriment of the Labour party. Both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, I have heard the commission strongly criticized. During the last 25 years nonLabour governments have been in control of the Commonwealth, and during that period every appointment has been made from the Tanks of the parties which support the Government. 
I knew  Mr. Cleary,  the  chairman  of the commission, when he was connected with the Railways Department of New South Wales. He did excellent work in that capacity. I repeat that every appointment made by the present Government has been made from among its supporters. It has been a case of the spoils of war being shared with its friends. There is nothing wrong with that. If I were Prime Minister, and certain positions had to be filled, a good many of them would go to the members of my party. The Government should be just as frank, and admit that most of the appointments that it has made have been from among its own supporters. 

 Mrs. Couchman is an excellent woman with a great capacity for work, but in a political capacity I have found her one of the foulest opponents against whom I have ever waged a campaign. This woman, who is an organizer for the Australian Women's National League, came into my electorate in Bendigo with her organization and maligned me in every part of it. She led the fight against me. She is now a member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
The proposal that the number of members of the commission should be increased from five to seven leaves me cold. I can see in it no likelihood of gain to my party. The membership of the commission is to he increased from five to seven, and one of the new appointees is to be a representative of Labour. I have yet to learn from what section of the community the seventh nominee will be drawn. I suggest that he should be a representative of the working journalists. So long as a man with a keen news and literary sense be appointed, his services will be most useful to the commission. 
With  Senator Darcey  I am pleased to learn that at long last a big proportion of the fees disbursed by the commission is being paid to Australian artists. Generally speaking, perhaps, details of fees paid to artists should not be published; but when an honorable senator asks for details of fees paid to a certain individual such information should be given. 
On page 12 of the eighth annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission appears the following: - 
After the outbreak of war a full-time news representative was appointed in London, and the commission also secured a service from the Exchange Telegraph Agency. In April, l!)40, the commission dispensed with the Australian Associated Press service which up to then had been its main source of overseas news, and purchased the right to re-broadcast any or all British Broadcasting Corporation bulletins in full. For this right it agreed to be responsible for the payment to Australian Associated Press of £3,000 per annum, half of which was to be contributed by the Australian Federation of Commercial Broadcasting Stations, who were thereby entitled to rebroadcast the British Broadcasting Corporation news bulletins. It was then no longer handicapped by having to keep back overseas news until it had appeared in the newspapers. 
A cable service from New York still further enriched the news service to Australian listeners. 
The bulk of the Australian news is still taken from newspapers but is now  re-written  in suitable broadcast form. 
Shortly after the war broke out I pointed out in this chamber that the British Broadcasting Corporation had indicated its willingness to supply a service covering the latest war news to Australia in common with other dominions. At that time the news was very grave. It was broadcast for a while for two or three nights a week. But suddenly that service was discontinued; and the allegation was made in this chamber, on very reliable grounds, that it had been abandoned as the result of action by the press interests in this country for tlie obvious reason that if such news were broadcast every evening very little fresh war news would be available for publication by the daily papers. I sincerely hope that the re-constituted commission will revive that service. 
Some months ago the commission appointed a commentator to cover directly political happenings in Canberra. That gentleman has done an excellent job. Quite recently two important announcements were made in this Parliament dealing, first, with the arrival of the Japanese ambassador, and, secondly, the arrival in Sydney of a squadron of the American navy. Each of those events was of sufficient importance to warrant an adjournment of this Parliament. Japan is a country with which we are desirous of establishing the greatest friendship. On each occasion important speeches were delivered by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  and by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin).  Those events presented a golden opportunity from a news point of view to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's commentator in Canberra. However, he was allowed only ten minutes in which to deal with those matters, and that brief opportunity was provided at 10.30 p.m. when the majority of theatre-zoe-.s had not returned home, and those who remained indoors for the night had gone to bed. Every honorable senator, irrespective of party, has objected to this ostracism of reports of important debates in this Parliament. In contrast, we read in the Melbourne daily press columns of reports of debates in the State Parliament. If the Victorian Parliament imposes a tax on bulls, the Melbourne press devotes half a column to the matter. I have not the slightest doubt that the press of this country, as well as the Australian Broadcasting Commission, is deliberately ostracizing reports of debates in the Federal Parliament. By that method the belief of Australians generally in our democratic form of government is weakened. I say, therefore, to the controllers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, that greater opportunity should be afforded to broadcast news of proceedings of this Parliament. I have not the slightest doubt that the debate in this chamber to-day will be covered in less, than six inches in the whole of the press of Australia to-morrow. However, when the race-horse, Ajax, was sold at auction for only £6,500, columns of space were given in every newspaper to reports dealing with that fact. This policy is adopted with a view to weakening the belief of Australians in our system of government. I support the present form of control of our national broadcasting services. I again urge that the personnel of the commission should be representative of all sections of the community. This organization can render great service to the National Parliament of Australia in the way I have just outlined. The officers of the commission are doing a good job. The commission has rendered a valuable service to the community in establishing permanent orchestras, thus providing employment for musicians who would not otherwise have a job, and at the same time, raising the standard of music in this country. I have found many of the lectures broadcast from national stations of the greatest educational value. Such facilities are proving of the greatest value to young students in this country. Many men in the Labour movement are well qualified for appointment to the commission, in which capacity, I have no doubt, they would render signal service to Australia. I again suggest that the seventh member of the commission should bc chosen as a representative of the working journalists of Australia. 
I support the bill. I agree with my leader that it can be greatly improved in many respects. I am an enthusiastic listenerin. A great service can be rendered internationally through the proper use of broadcasting. As I have said on previous occasions, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is doing a very good job. Apart from those improvements to the measure which the Opposition will seek to effect in the committee stages, I propose to offer several suggestions for the improvement of broadcasting services. The people of northern Tasmania are not being given as good a service as they arn entitled to. Another station in addition to 7NT should be established in northern Tasmania. The reception from the two stations in Hobart is bad. Because of the great metallic belt running from east  to west of the island, interference from static in Launceston is so bad that it is impossible to listen-in to either of tho-.e stations. However, as two-thirds of the population of Tasmania is situated in the north and north-west, a better broadcasting service should be established to serve that area. The listening panels could be asked to do more work than they are doing at the present time. The panel in Tasmania does not understand the requirements of the  listeners-in.  Most, people in the populous centres in Tasmania are able to go home from their work to lunch every day. From noon until 2 p.m., however, the national broadcast service consists of market, and stock and share reports. These are of no interest to the average man. Again, between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. the national programmes consist of sporting results, weather reports and such things as rifle club notes. In place of such items it. would he far more preferable, particularly in the case of Tasmania, to provide musical programmes at such hours. Whereas on the mainland most workers in the metropolitan areas do not return home until 7 p.m., the evening dinner in Tasmania is usually from 5.30 p.m. until 6.30 p.m. Consequently, the conditions obtaining on the mainland are not applicable to .Tasmania. The commission, therefore, should study local conditions. This can best be done by the listening panel, to which I suggest a representative of the working classes should be appointed. I believe that the national stations are presented with their best opportunity to provide entertainment on Sunday afternoons and Sunday evenings after church. At present, however, at these hours the programmes are noticeably poor in comparison with those provided at the same time by B-class stations. My ideal programme is one which satisfies the majority. For instance, the session " Do you know music  1  ", although it is acceptable to me, because I take an interest in music as a subject, does not accord with the desires of the majority of listeners, who are not interested in who wrote this or that piece of music. The majority want light entertainment, especially on Sunday, which is about the only time that they have available for entertainment. The Sunday programmes should be composed of popular entertainments. 
Some time ago I raised the question of the need for the Australian Broadcasting Commission to conduct Australia-wide competitions. In his second-reading speech, the Minister said - 
Radio play competitions were held. A playreading and advising department was created to search for and develop talent by advice and otherwise. The result of this policy has not only been to bring about a great improvement in the standard of play-writing and production, but has led to a remarkable development of Australian- talent. Some idea of the work involved may be had- 
I believe in those competitions, but in my opinion the commission should also conduct singing, band, and instrumental competitions. Annual Australia-wide competitions, conducted under the auspices of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, would be of great value. State competitions are now held and there are also some so-called Australian competitions, but there are no recognized championships of Australia in the various branches of music. The commission should issue a certificate bearing its own seal and the emblem of Australia to the champion of each section in the musical field. The successful contestants would be given contracts and those worthy of further education would be sent overseas in order to receive further tuition as the prize for their efforts in the competitions. I hope that that suggestion will be favorably considered. 
The Minister's second-reading speech referred also to broadcasts for schools. He said - 
Before the commission was appointed in 1932, there were no broadcast services for school children, except for some experimental work done for a few months in Victoria. The commission appointed special school broadcasts officers in most States, and was fortunate, eventually, in securing the fullest cooperation from the State and private educational bodies throughout Australia. As a result this important branch of its work has developed greatly. Last year the number of schools regularly listening totalled 1,900, and it is estimated that the number of children listening to the school broadcasts was about 100,000. 
I and my sons have listened on numerous occasions to those education broadcasts, which are good. The only objection I have is that the schools are required to pay the wireless licence-fees. That is unjust. There are 1,900 schools which scholars listen to those educational broadcasts and the least that the Government should do is grant them free licences. The licence-fees are paid, not by the scholars, but by the parents' and friends' associations which conduct concerts and other entertainments in aid of school funds. Not much revenue would be lost in giving the concession of free licences to 1,900 schools. 
The  A.B.C. Weekly  is a wonderful journal, which has made great progress since the first issue, but I  think  that it is capable of expansion. I believe also that it could be issued free to every holder of a wireless licence. Not long .ago, in Tasmania, I conducted at a profit a journal which was issued free. The profit resulted from payments for advertisements. The  A.B.C. Weekly,  with a circulation of 1,212,581 readers, could be made the greatest advertising medium in Australia. The facilities with which to make it such are available, except, of course, the scarcity of paper might prevent the project from being put into operation immediately. The Commonwealth Government could allow the distribution of the  A.B.C. Weekly  through the post free of postage. In my opinion, the wider distribution of the  A.B.C. Weekly  as a free publication would be a great stimulus to education, to broadcasting and to the reading public. When  the necessary paper supplies are available, the distribution of the  A.B.C. Weekly  on a free basis should be given a trial. I give a guarantee that the journal could be conducted at a substantial profit on those lines even if postage had to be paid. 
Another important phase of broadcasting matter is the operations of the bushranging organization known as the Australasian Performing Eight Association. The annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission states - 
There has been little change in the position since the last report. The commission has continued  to  pay the Australasian Performing Right Association at  the  rate fixed in 1938. The commission contends that this rate, especially when taken in conjunction with fees paid by commercial stations  to  the Australasian Performing Right Association, is much higher than is justified, having regard  to  payments made by comparable organizations in England, Canada, New Zealand, and certain other countries.  Being interested in music and having conducted at various functions in Tasmania, I have come in conflict with the Australasian Performing Right Association. Even a person who plays records at a skating rink has to pay tribute to it. I see no reason whatever why the organization should be allowed to exist in Australia. I recognize that a copyright should last for a few years, but I refuse to concede the right of anybody to obtain perpetual copyright in order to suck the lifeblood of the community merely by altering a few words in the copyright matter. The Government has the power under the National Security Act or will have the power under the proposed legislation, if it cares to take it, to regulate payments to the Australasian Performing Right Association, and in future the Government, on the advice of the Broadcasting Commission, should from time to time issue regulations stipulating the fees to which the Australasian Performing Right Association should be entitled. Those payments should be small. I am an enthusiastic listener-in, and I think that the Broadcasting Commission is doing very good work, but I sincerely suggest that it should take cognizance of the views and the suggested amendments of the Labour party, which would make for better working and greater interest in the commission's activities. 
The bill is a step in the direction of meeting the views of the Labour party on broadcasting namely, that the control of the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be finally vested in Parliament through a responsible Minister. Whenever criticism has been levelled against the Broadcasting Commission I have felt that it should have been levelled, not so much against the commission as against the Government itself, because, although the Government disclaims any authority over the commission, in reality, the commission's actions are largely dictated by the Government. I believe that the incident related by  .Senator Cameron  was the fault of the Government rather than the commission. Our view is that parliamentary responsibility should not be delegated completely to any board or commission, and that all boards and commissions should be under the direction of a Minister. 
It is unnecessary to increase the membership of the commission from five to seven in order to give representation to Labour. The term of the present commission will expire on the 30th June next, and, although I have nothing against any of the present members, the re-constitution of the commission would provide a splendid opportunity to appoint a Labour man qualified to go on to the commission without increasing the number. That is what the Government should have done. I trust that the bill will be passed. 
I am perfectly sure that all honorable senators were interested to hear of the progress being made in the various programmes of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but, as one who has brought this matter up before, I think that this bill does not go quite far enough. In that respect I am very disappointed. In the first place, I should like to have seen the bill provide for taking over all technical services associated with broadcasting. I have advocated that course in this chamber on previous occasions. At present, the commission depends on the services of the Postmaster-General's Department for carrying on many  important functions including the dissemination of the British Broadcasting Corporation's war news and various educational features broadcast from London. All phases of broadcasting, including issue of licences and technical services, should be under the direct control of a full time commission, and not merely a part time commission as we have at present. I understand that the existing commission has not sufficient work to do in regard to broadcasting, and I cannot understand why the Government proposes to increase the personnel from five to seven. In my opinion, the commission should consist of three practical men who have made, or are making, a full study of the whole subject of broadcasting. It is far too important to be guided or influenced by a part time body, however efficient or expert it may be. That applies not only to technical services of broadcasting, but also to research into broadcasting which I consider has not been given sufficient attention. In the realm of broadcasting science, changes occur almost daily, and I would like to see the Australian Broadcasting Commission give greater attention to research by the employment of experts from such advanced countries as the United States of America or Great Britain, so that we could build up in Australia a broadcasting technique which would be the envy of all nations. That will not be accomplished until all phases of broadcasting are regulated and governed by a small full-time board of say three persons. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD.No, I am dealing with national broadcasting. " B " class stations are in a totally different category. 
With respect to the broadcast of news bulletins, Western Australia is very much handicapped by atmospheric inductions on the land line from Port Augusta to the west, and instead of the commission making profits on its operations as it has done, I should like to see some money expended on the improvement of that land line and other  technical  adjustments. Listeners in Western Australia are unable to tune in to stations in the other States, and, with the exception of those who are able to afford dual wave receivers, we are entirely dependent for our programmes which come over the land line from Port Augusta. Despite replies which I have received from the Postmaster-General in relation to this matter, I urge that some of the profits made by the commission be devoted to the improvement of the land line for the benefit of Western Australian listeners. 
Another matter concerning news broadcasts which I have already mentioned in this chamber concerns the splitting up of the 7 pAn. news programme from Sydney, which we in Western Australia hear at 5 o'clock in the afternoon. I admit that the commission must have some regard for the Australian Associated Press to which it is indebted for news items, the collection of which has to be paid for. It is not right to impinge upon the work of the Australian Associated Press, but many Australian news items are denied to Western Australian listeners until the following morning. The news programme starts with the overseas news, which is followed by national items of general interest and a commentary upon the overseas news by some eminent authority, usually a professor at one of our universities. Listeners in the eastern States then hear the Australian news, but that is not broadcast to Western Australia. Many items in that section of the programme, including important announcements made by Commonwealth Ministers, would be of just as much interest to the citizens of Western Australia as they are to the people of New South Wales or Victoria, and I cannot understand why the programme given to the eastern States should not be relayed to Western Australia in its entirety. Many persons in the back-blocks and mining areas of Western Australia rarely see a newspaper and depend entirely upon radio for their news. Those persons are as much entitled to receive news immediately it is broadcast as are citizens in other parts of the Commonwealth. I ask the PostmasterGeneral to arrange for the entire news bulletin to be transmitted .to Western Australia. 
Another matter concerning new3 to which I should like to direct attention is that of broadcasts from the United States of America. The last broadcast we heard from that country was President Roosevelt's famous speech, and listeners were thrilled to hear that wonderful radio voice saying words with farreaching international implications. There are many other interesting broadcasts which dual-wave sets receive, but which are denied to the ordinary radio listener here, and I am sure they would be of great interest and value to the Australian public. Whilst the Australian Broadcasting Commission is to be complimented on the improved quality of programmes, including many educational commentaries which are being received from the British Broadcasting Corporation, I should like to sec a similar service arranged with the National Broadcasting Corporation of America. I am sure that such a service would be very much appreciated by listeners in Australia. 
I repeat that I fail to understand why the Government has seen fit to increase the personnel of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which I understand has not nearly enough work to do now, and I object very strongly to the proposal that a nominee of a political party should be appointed. I hope that the Government will maintain its policy of disregarding the political affiliations of any man who is appointed either to the Australian Broadcasting Commission or to any other commission. I would be loath to see the Government make an appointment from, say, the Trades Hall group or any other political group. Such political affiliations should not be a condition precedent to an appointment to this or any other commission. No political movement in Australia has a right to be represented on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I would sooner see a nominee of, say, the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia appointed, because Such a representative would be more entitled to a place on the body controlling our national broadcasting service than a political nominee. I would not object to the appointment of a nominee of, say, Australian journalists or literary men, but to suggest that the 
Trades Hall is entitled to representation is just as logical as saying on behalf of our Scottish friends that a man of the Presbyterian persuasion should be appointed. I am opposed to the appointment of a representative of any political group or movement, whether it be the Australian Labour party or the United Australia party, and I object to the suggestion that by increasing the personnel of the commission there will be room for such a nominee. The bill does not go far enough in the matter of the technical services of broadcasting, and I hope that the Government will tackle that problem in the very near future. 
 in reply  - I do not propose to speak at any length because the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has foreshadowed amendments which will be moved in committee. I appreciate the favorable references which have been made to the work of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and to the advancement made in broadcasting generally, but I regret that an attempt was made by some honora'ble senators to criticize unfairly certain members of the commission. To those honorable senators who raised the question of the amount paid to the Australian Associated Press for copyright, I would point out that the Australian Associated Press has the press and radio copyright of Reuters news supplied to the British Broadcasting Corporation. The Australian Broadcasting Commission arranged for the use of that news for a payment of £3,000, half of which is collected from the commercial stations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I move - 
That thebill be now read a second time. 
This is a bill to amend section 29b of the Crimes Act 1914-1937. That section makes it an offence to impose or endeavour to impose upon the Commonwealth by any untrue representation, made either verbally or in writing, with a. view to obtaining money or any other benefit or advantage. At first sight the words " made either verbally or in writing " may appear to cover all possible methods of making untrue representation, but that is not the case. An untrue representation resulting in fraud may be made by false conduct, and  this  would not be covered by the section by reason of the specific reference to the representation being made either verbally or in writing. The bill proposes to amend the section by omitting the words, " either verbally or in writing", and inserting in their stead the words, " in any manner whatsoever ". The bill is to be made retrospective to the 3rd September, 1939. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I desire to discuss the regulation of the use of firearms in Australia. On the 12th December last I asked a question in the Senate on the subject. From the information that I have gathered I consider that in time of war there is insufficient control in the States to govern effectively the use of firearms allowed for the protection of employees engaged in establishments where firearms are registered as protective weapons. I consider that the regulations should be tightened. All firearms must be registered and the Commonwealth Government plays an important part in that respect but it does not deal with the use of firearms after registration. I have been approached by scores of people in Launceston and I have received a large number of letters asking me to assist in bringing about the tightening of the regulations governing the use of firearms in the interests of the protection of employees in business houses. Some of the States have regulations governing the use of firearms but I consider that all regulations in operation now should be overhauled by the Commonwealth authorities. 1 shall cite a specific case to support my representations. A young man, Allan Green, was at work ait his desk in a Launceston bank when one of his colleagues, a junior, walked behind him. Green heard the command " Put them up " and then a revolver was discharged and he was shot, the bullet passing through his chest. A large number of the letters I have received refer to this accident and I shall read only six or seven of the shortest of them. They are as follows: - 
I have been in close touch with a case over here in Launceston where a young fellow by the name of Allan Green was accidentally shot while on duty in a certain bank, by a junior of the bank staff. 
Since the affair, it has seemed strange to me that such a thing could happen. Would the law allow a weapon to be in the possession of a junior? If not, should it have been about where an irresponsible person could easily pick it up? 
Being in close touch with the young fellow Green all through his many months of hospital treatment, and knowing what a desperate fight he and the doctors had for his life, and the very heavy expense to the father, I feel that if the law does not provide for a stricter supervision of firearms, it would be a distinct service to the community if you or someone could take the matter up in the House and secure greater security for those who, like young Green, might be future victims of the indiscretions of others. 
I tender this suggestion in what I feel to be the best interests of employees who have to work in places where firearms are a necessary part of the business equipment. 
In view of the serious shooting accident which occurred in the Bank of Australasia in this city some months ago, and considering the  suffering  and agony the victim, Allan Green, has gone through, I am of the opinion the law in respect to the use of firearms should be reviewed with the object of safeguarding the lives and persons of those employees engaged in establishments where firearms are registered ns protective weapons. 
Can I be informed please, what steps the Government arc taking to fully protect employees in respect to the use of firearms? My reason for desiring this information is that, although I have watched the newspapers since the occurrence, I have not yet seen any reference as to what action has been taken relative to the case of a youth named Allan Green being wounded in a Launceston bank some months ago through the indiscriminate use of firearms. 
I am strongly of the opinion that adequate steps should be taken to more fully protect employees as far as the use of firearms is concerned. 
am writing to you as a representative of the people. A friend of mine, Allan Green by name, was shot and badly wounded by a youth in the bank in which he was employed and very seriously injured, after over four months he recovered, the expense of which his parents had to bear.- I understand, they have not yet received compensation of any kind which he is entitled to as a worker under the laws of the country, also it is almost twelve months since it happened, yet the police themselves do not seem to be doing anything about holding an inquiry into it but just letting your laws slide. It is bad enough for his parents to have to bear the strain of their loved one's sickness without having to bear the expense which he is supposed to be covered from. 
Hoping you can do something for this family. 
I have noticed in your Tasmanian paper the  Examiner  of 19th December, 1940, where you have brought before the notice of the Trades Hall, a serious shooting affair which happened in a Launceston bank, and I am lead to understand by the way it is printed that the parents of the victim have not only had the anxiety of such a serious illness brought upon them by indiscriminate people, but have had to meet a tremendous financial strain. These circumstances seem to me to be grossly unjust, and if the injuries were received on the bank's premises, I do not think the bank concerned is acting with the principals we are fighting for at the present time. I therefore consider asking you as a  Senator to  bring this bank to ite senses in respect to justice. 
I have been trying to contact you for some time but unfortunately failed, hence my letter now. 
It is in reference to an occurrence in the Bank of Australasia where a youth named Allan Green was seriously wounded by a revolver, while on duty, by another employee. 
I do not know the law in respect to registration of revolvers, but I do think this case warrants a tightening up of the act so as to prevent firearms being used by irresponsible persons. 
Green was eight months in hospital and for four months no hope was held out for his recovery. The medical, hospital and other expenses cost his parents £3S0 and until I took action they could not obtain compensation from the bank. Eventually the bank made an offer of £298. 
I understand that he was covered by insurance. He made a statement which did not suit the bank manager, who thereupon deleted a portion and substituted another paragraph which he told the boy he must sign otherwise he would not get any compensation. I understand that the bank manager said that he would get £25 compensation from the insurance company. 
There has been no public inquiry into the occurrence, and therefore the boy who did the shooting may be under the shadow of suspicion. I believe that it was an accident. 
The local police must have made some inquiries? 
Commonwealth Government, under the powers conferred on it by the National Security Act, has made regulations governing many things. It has recently introduced a bill to deal with people guilty of fraud and negligence in respect of certain acts and it could go further to protect employees against injury from fire-arms. 
I have received a communication from the Moora Roads Board on the subject of petrol rationing for members of the board who have to travel long distances to attend board meetings. 1 wrote the following letter to the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  because the State Liquid Fuel Control Board has no power to increase the special allowance granted in such cases. 
Following on representations made to me by local authorities in this State, members  at  whom travel long distances to attend meetings of their boards, it is pointed out that the allowance made by the State Liquid Fuel Control Board is far short of the requirements necessary. 
I have represented the matter to the State board and am informed that the power of the board is limited and under the present schedule they could not exceed that laid down by the Central Fuel Board. 
I take one local authority as an example - I would refer to the Moora Road Board, and of course this applies to many other country boards in this State. At' the present time; a preferred mileage of 50 per cent, of the mileage covered in attending meetings of local authorities has been approved. Ten members of the Moora Road Board are farmers and they already find difficulty in carrying out their farm work with the petrol allowance granted. Of the ten members referred to, three travel not less than 64 miles to attend meetings of their board, while of the remainder four travel not less than 50 miles and three travel 12 miles. From this it will be seen that the allowance of 50 per cent, is unreasonable. It must be borne in mind also that in addition to board meetings, there are many functions in connexion with patriotic appeals that these gentlemen are expected to attend and in all this it must not be forgotten that their services are given in an honorary capacity. 
I therefore respectfully suggest that the State Fuel Board's powers should be enlarged so that cases of this nature could be dealt with here on their merits and with the cooperation of the various local authorities in this State. I feel sure that if the geographical position of many of the local authority members were given consideration it would be admitted that 50 per cent, would not be sufficient for their needs. 
I received from him the following reply:- 
I have received your letter of the 5th instant with reference to petrol allowances to members of local authorities, and particularly to the Moora Road Board. I note that farmer members of this board have difficulty in carrying out their farm work, and further difficulties in attending the board meetings, even with the special allowance provided. 
I am afraid with the further restrictions that have been thrust upon us by war conditions, we may require to reduce even the special allowance already given, and that there is no alternative for such local authority members as you mention than that of readjusting their private arrangements to suit the new conditions. We had not expected that ordinary pre-war habits could be maintained under the stress of war conditions, and I think it is not too much to expect that, in their cooperation with the Government, consumers of petrol will find ways and means of reducing their consumption even though it means inconvenience to a serious degree. 
I would be very much assisted in the work of the department if you could take this view of the problem. 
The word " habits " should not have been used. These gentlemen are not continuing their pre-war habits, but use their cars to carry out work which they do in an honorary capacity. 
I did not inquire fully into the ramifications of their activities; but I know that in the course of their duties members of such boards are obliged to travel great distances. The secretary of the Moora Road Board wrote me as follows: - 
May I give you one instance of their effort in the matter? Namely, that on the 7th instant, the board met at 2 p.m. for a conference with local authorities from as far north as Three Springs and Gin Gin in the south. Followed by an Appeal Court at 4 p.m. and by a Revision Court at 5.15 p.m. and at 8 p.m. by the annual meeting of ratepayers. This meeting was followed on Saturday, 8th instant, by the regular finance committee meeting, and the board meeting extending from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
It is proposed that at our next meeting of the board to hold a conference with other local authorities, but it should be appreciated that these meetings, in addition to travelling some 00 miles or more as some members have to, is rather a big demand on their time and energy. 
We trust, therefore, that if it is possible at some later date to give further consideration to our request that these disabilities will be taken into consideration. 
In order that claims of this kind can be considered in the light of conditions peculiar toWestern Australia, I again urge the Government to appoint a direct representative ofWestern Australia to the Central Liquid Fuel Control Board. I fully appreciate the necessity for conserving our petrol supplies. Upon receiving these representations, I examined the schedule covering petrol rationing in Western Australia. I find that, despite the severity of the restrictions in respect of certain classes of users of motor vehicles, considerable room still exists for tightening up the schedule. Many persons are receiving much more petrol than they really need. For instance, nothing in the regulations governing the issue of licences prevents unscrupulous persons from obtaining a ration far in excess of that which can be obtained by legitimate farmers and tradesmen. Confidence tricksters and " magsmen " can obtain a ration up to 71 gallons a month, provided they declare that they are engaged in a trade, or calling, which places them in a business class. 
If a man has two bottles of hair oil and a toothbrush to sell he can claim, under the regulations, to be a salesman, and he thereby becomes entitled to a ration up to 71 gallons a month. Compare this allowance with that meted out to a farmer who owns a 42 cwt. truck with which he does the whole of his farm work, including the cartage of stores. His ration is limited to  32  gallons a month. 
I assure the Minister that what I say is correct. The farmer may obtain an additional six gallons a month, provided he proves that he needs the additional petrol to cover a corresponding additional mileage. Legitimate tradesmen, whose petrol requirements are much in excess of the quantities provided under the schedule, are also unfairly rationed in comparison with the treatment given to "magsmen" and racing men whose main occupation is visiting country shows. A butcher, baker or milkman, engaged in the distribution of the necessaries of life, is restricted, irrespective of the mileage covered, to a ration of  39  gallons a month in respect of a commercial vehicle up to  24  cwt. In many cases this quantity represents but one-third of the tradesman's previous consumption. Special licences may be granted to tradesmen, but such licences are given for a specific period only, and the State Liquid Fuel Control Board can cancel them at any time. I emphasize that members of local governing authorities and roads boards are doing valuable work. They are entitled to more generous treatment under the petrol rationing scheme than they are receiving to-day. Much of their work is of an honorary nature. I again ask the Minister to give urgent consideration to the matters I have raised. 
.- To-day I asked the following question: - 
Will the Postmaster-General inform the Senate of the reason for reducing the addresses and necessary information in connexion with subscribers in the last issue of the telephone directory? 
Is it not a fact that this action causes considerable inconvenience to those who refer to the directory for information? 
The Postmaster-General's reply was as follows :  - 
The telephone directories were rearranged as a matter of urgent national necessity in order to reduce the quantity of paper used and to effect savings in the cost of producing the publications. As a result, it is anticipated that during 1941 the saving in the consumption of imported newsprint for telephone directory purposes will be in the vicinity of 40 per cent, of the quantity which in normal circumstances would have been used, thus representing a substantial contribution towards the conservation of the Empire's dollar exchange resources. Although entries have been condensed, no information which is essential to the proper identification of subscribers lias been omitted. 
The revised style of showing entries is substantially the same as that followed by large telephone administrations abroad, and experience indicates that it docs not cause inconvenience to telephone users. 
That reply is most unsatisfactory. Only to-night I looked up the Melbourne telephone directory for the address of a doctor. After the doctor's name appeared the word " Flinders ". How is a person who is not familiar with Melbourne to know whether " Flinders " indicates a suburb of Melbourne or Flinders-street? It is not correct to say that in the condensation of entries in telephone directories no information essential to the identification of subscribers has been omitted. In addition, the type used in the new directories is too small. I have been obliged repeatedly to take the directory outside of a public telephone box in order to be able to read it. I have seen users of public telephones at the Perth General Post Office doing the same thing. The print is too small. 
Yes. The change may represent some saving to the Postal Department, but many people will ruin their eyesight in trying to read the small type in the new directories. I urge the Postmaster-General to see that the next issue of directories is printed in much larger type. Only to-night, I was speaking to a man who had just used the public telephone in King's Hall. He told me that, owing to the smallness of the print, he had asked for the number shown above that which he required. 
The answer which I received to-day to a question bears out all I said last week concerning what I described as the treasury-bills racket. For once I received a straightforward answer. I was informed that the discount rate on treasury-bills in Australia was reduced, as I suggested previously, from If per cent, to  per cent, as from the 1st May. 
The rate of 1^ per cent, for three months works out at 6 per cent, per annum. Of course, as I have pointed out on previous occasions the Government would have no need to issue treasury-bills at all if it adopted a sound system of finance. The following news item appeared recently in the  Sydney Morning Herald: -  " An invitation to the Commonwealth Government to commit national suicide " is the description applied by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  to a resolution passed in November by the Western Australian Legislative Assembly. 
The comment is made in a letter from  Mr. Fadden  to  Senator Johnston  ... In his letter,  Mr. Fadden  said that in one sense to say that national credit should bc used i.'i this way came very near to being a statement of the Commonwealth Government's policy, for essentially that was what it had been doing on a bold scale ever since the outbreak of war. 
I defy  Senator McBride  or any other honorable senator to reconcile those two statements. As  Sir Grafton  Smith said "Most men, even without being consciously dishonest or willingly stupid, seem to be unable to examine advanced views with understanding and impartiality ". That is my difficulty in this chamber. 
Is the honorable senator's difficulty here any greater than it is in the party room? 
But not at par. 
Private subscribers to loans also pay by cheque. 
That also applies to the banks. 

 Mr. J. Wilmot, Labour member for Kenji ington,  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer the average rate of interest and the total amount paid by way of interest, issued since 1st September, 1939, and the corresponding figure for the similar period a year before?  Sir John  Simon. - For treasury-bills issued from 1st September, 1939, to 4th May, 1940, as a result of public tender the average rate  was £1 9s. Gd. and the total amount of interest paid was £7,225,957. For the period from 1st September, 1938, to 4th May, 1939, the corresponding figures were 15s. lOd. and £2,359,224. 
Had Britain been using national credit instead of borrowing from the private banking system, that great interest bill would have been averted. If at the beginning of the war this Government had had sufficient pluck to use national credit we should have saved the £600,000 in interest on the £20,000,000 war loan. I concede that tha Loan Council is not a legislative body, but it is in that council that the protest against paying interest on money required for war purposes should have been made. 
Nothing is ever heard of the necessity to increase taxation, compulsory saving, or the issue of enormous war loans. Quite the contrary. Recently one important tax was abolished, savings bank deposits are increasingly large. Hitler seems to have discovered the secret of making something out of nothing - 
Hitler is using national credit. The only people who make something out of nothing are the private bankers. 
The honorable senator mentions the London  Times  as being the source of his information, but omits to say "who wrote the article. 
In Australia the national interest is subservient to the private banks. I repeat what I said two years ago, that Australia is governed by the associated banks with the assistance of the Menzies Government. 
There is no truth in that. 
I do controvert it. 
Tell us what happened in Alberta. 
The honorable senator would believe anything if he believed that. 
I understand that, in financing the construction of munitions annexes by State governments, the Commonwealth Government is charging 4 per cent, interest. Why is it that State governments engaged on war  work  are being charged 4 per cent, whilst interest payable on war loans is 31/2 per cent., interest on war savings certificates is  21/2per  cent., and Commonwealth Savings Bank interest is less than  23/4  per cent.? 
The conditions mentioned by  Senator  Allan MacDonald operate under an agreement arrived at between the States concerned and the Commonwealth. Until the States actually use the annexes, no interest is charged, but when used by the States, the interest payable will be 4 per cent, for ten years, at the end of which period the annexes will be handed over to theStates. Depreciation is written off at the rate of  10  per cent, per annum. That arrangement was approved by the States, and I suggest that it is a very good arrangement from their point of view. Ten per cent, depreciation is a very high rate for annexes and plant of that kind. 
It is a very generous rate, and the States themselves apparently think so, because they have agreed to the conditions. 
I think it can be assumed that most of it will last much longer than ten years. 
On the 13th March,  Senator Darcey  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer the following question,  upon notice: - 
Is it  a  fact that since the war started the private banks have taken up £32,000,000 of government securities and £23,000,000 of treasury-bills,  a  total of £55,000,000, and that during that time the Commonwealth Bank has reduced its holding of government securities by£ 9,200,000? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
The latest issue of the Commonwealth Bank's  Statistical Bulletin  shows that between August, 1939, and January, 1941, the trading banks increased their holdings of government securities and treasury-bills by £34.2m. and £21.6m. respectively. Apart from short-term treasury-bills, the holdings  of  which fluctuate between the Commonwealth Bank and the trading banks, the amount  of  government securities held by the Commonwealth Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank has increased since the outbreak of war. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that the military authorities are now making considerable use of the single telephone line between South Australia and Western Australia, and that it is becoming increasingly difficult for civilians to obtain calls between the eastern States and Western Australia? What steps does the department propose to take in order to provide a second telephone line between Western Australia and the eastern States for both military and civil purposes! 
Urgent consideration is being given to that matter.However, the honorable senator will realize that the position is difficult in view of the Government's heavy war commitments. I assure him that the work will be carried out so soon as funds are available. 
.- I move - 
That the senate,at its rising, adjourn till 10 a.m. to-morrow. 
Is the motion supported ? 

 Four honorable senators having risen in support of the motion, 

Union advocates submitted that the present wage level does not give wage-earners a proper share of national income and does not bear proper relation to the increased productivity of labour during recent years. In other .words, the court is asked to declare that all past fixations have been arrived at on wrong principles and should be abandoned, and that by way of wage fixation it should arrive at a conclusion as to what share of production should go to wage-earners,  ot,  to use a homely term, how the "cake" produced by all should bo divided up. Again and again, the court has pointed out that it is not the legislature, but a tribunal exercising limited functions conferred by the legislature. Deliberate re-arrangement of the division of national income amongst the different factors of production is beyond both it's power and capacity. 
T'h at statement supports my previous submissions in this chamber that the court is not competent to do what it is being asked to do. Briefly, the court declares that it cannot fix the basic wage of this country. The judgment adds - 
Alternatively, the Commonwealth Parliament must assume responsibility for the Commonwealth basic wage. 
I realize that, owing to constitutional limitations, it is impossible for the Government at the moment to give legislative effect to that view. However, if the Government, under the national security legislation, can give a special allowance of 6s.- a. week to 60,000 workers, because of war exigencies, there is nothing to prevent it from exercising the same power in order to extend that increase to the great majority of workers. It may be contended that wages are adjusted on the basis of the cost of living. Let us examine that proposition, first of all, in regard to house rents. This Government is definitely to blame  for the fact that house rents have risen considerably since 1939. In Melbourne, that increase has been as much as from 2s. 6d. to 5s. a week. Up to December, 1939, rents were pegged by regulation; but since that date, owing to a stupid decision arrived at by an. interstate conference, the regulation lapsed, and, consequently, rapacious landlords have had an " open go ". Therefore, to-day, the costofliving figure has no relation in fact to actual rentals. In addition, the prices of dozens of articles which are absolutely essential in the home are soaring. Our present system of prices control will not achieve what the Labour party desires in this respect. The Government decided, owing to the emergency of war, to dispense with the calling of tenders for the construction of certain works. Some contracts were let at a fixed price, and others were let at cost plus 5 per cent. Under the " cost-plus " system, the builders are able to obtain all the material they want -and to put up with industrial trouble, loss of time, &amp;c, and still make their 5 per cent, profit. That is a matter of urgency, but the case which I am placing before the Senate is even more urgent. It is said by the Government that the outlay on the war may be £196,000,000, and we all realize that that is an inescapable burden, but surely some of that money could be made available in the direction which we are suggesting. Despite the action taken to prevent the workers and trade union leaders in this country from taking a stand in this m a  Her,  it is obvious that there is among them a grave suspicion of the Arbitration Court's decision, owing to the fact that almost on the day that it was to be made known, a Government pronouncement was made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr. Holt)  of the proposed child endowment scheme. Tt may have been an accident or a remarkable coincidence, but the man in the street will not swallow that. I do not suggest that there was collusion between the Government and the court, but I do say that, having regard to the phraseology of its decision, the court must have known that something of the kind was Toeing attempted. In his judgment, Chief Judge Beeby said that the 'basic wage for a mau, his wife and one child was adequate. The child endowment scheme will be in respect of all children after the first, so obviously it was realized by the court that the whole basis was wrong. On page 7 of his judgment, the Chief Judge said - 
During thu proceedings I was impressed with new evidence and argument submitted as to the inadequacy of the earnings of the lower-grade wage-earners with families. On our accepted standards of living, looking nt it from the needs point of view only, I regard the present basic wage as adequate for a family unit of three, but I think it offers only a meagre existence for a family unit of four. When the unit gets beyond four, hardship is often experienced. During a portion of his term as a low-wage employee, a married' Tuan frequently has a family of more than two dependent children. 
A more logical system would be to grade the basic wage according to family responsibilities. But  jio claim  for such gradation has ever been made by employees or employers. The court can only deal with claims made, and has no power to initiate on its own motion a scheme of wage payments according to responsibilities. T believe that, notwithstanding its increase in aggregate wages, a re-appointment of national income sufficient to increase the wages of men and women with more than one dependent child would be of advantage to the Commonwealth. The relief afforded to those who need it would more than set-off the inflationary tendency of provision for a comprehensive scheme of child endowment. 
Since the conclusion of the hearing the Commonwealth Government has announced its intention to initiate such a scheme. If and when this is done, future fixation of the basic wage will bo greatly simplified, but the announcement of the Government's intentions does not of itself justify any departure from past methods. 
Obviously, Judge Beeby was not to be stopped by the fact that a child endowment scheme had been foreshadowed. Assuming that the Government agrees to what I am suggesting, and decides to give an increase under the National Security Act, I would point out that the child endowment scheme will cost £13,000,000, whereas an increased basic wage would cost about £1,000,000 a month. If it is right to give 60,000 war workers an additional 6s. a week, it is also right to make the rise general. Men who work on the manufacture of munitions do not toil any harder than do men working on, say, the railways, where jobs have become more arduous owing to the interference with shipping services. The breakdown of transport by sea has placed an added burden on railway workers and others engaged on land transport services. These men, who are working long hours and doing a great job, have just as much right to a rise as have the munition workers. The Government has a duty to these men.It should do the proper thing and so obtain the wholehearted support of all sections of the community. Why not make a generous gesture even at this late hour? We do not suggest that action be taken through the Arbitration Court - no government should tell an arbitration court tribunal what to do - but the increase could be granted under the National Security Act. Whatever rise is given to the workers will be passed on by the employers. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the following letter:- 
In reply to the honorable senator I shall give an illustration. Say, for instance, I am a grocer and he is a wholesale supplier. I buy from him £100 worth of goods on which sales tax is charged, and I receive an invoice for £115. The additional £15 which goes into the Treasury, is passed on to my customers. It is no use blinding ourselves to facts. The delay in delivering a judgment of the Arbitration Court is amazing, more particularly when it is remembered that Chief Judge Beeby is a man of experience and is conversant with all shades of political opinion. Another member of the bench is a one-time member ofthis chamber, Judge 
Drake-Brockman. What is that gentleman doing at the moment? He is  chairman  of' a coal tribunal, and he is also a judge of the Arbitration Court, iu which jurisdiction he has three important cases awaiting a hearing. The locomotive engine-men have had a case before that court since August of last year. Recently he met the representatives of the union in conference and had the audacity to say that he could give them Friday, Saturday, and Sunday to hear the case. Judge Drake-Brockman also has a military job which he is endeavouring to carry out at the same time. A building dispute lias arisen in Melbourne and that also lias 'been placed on his list. So we find chaos, delay and humbug in one of the most important activities of this country. What this country requires urgently at the moment is direct Arbitration Court action without interference by lawyers and others who do not understand the claims of the workers. I go further and say that the appointment of every judge to this tribunal has been made by governments hostile to the Labour party. Imagine a government having the audacity to take a man from the role of advocate for the coal-owners and to place him on the Arbitration Court bench to decide how much workers should be paid. I am amazed that the action which we on this side are now taking has not been taken earlier. A protest against all this humbug is long overdue. The workers of this country are doing the biggest share of the job in time of war. What is wrong with the Government taking its courage in both hands and saying, "We shall not interfere with the Arbitration Court at the moment, but we shall take action under the National Security Act"? If I had my way that would be done immediately. Think of the support that would be forthcoming for the Government of this country at the moment if action were taken to depart from legislation which is grossly unfair to the workers. Imagine any honorable senator on this side or on the other side of the chamber going into the Arbitration Court to argue a case for the workers in favour of a higher basic wage and being asked to disclose most private details of expenditure, when the employers' case was being taken behind closed doors. The Arbitration Act is obsolete and totally inadequate. One section in the legislation which I believe all legal men will support, was inserted by  the Bruce-Page Government. It is not surprising that there are threats of industrial trouble and that hold-ups are likely to occur at any time. This matter was raised in the House of Representatives and a reply was given by the Minister for Labour and National Service who said that the claim had been heard by men qualified in the jurisdiction by years of experience in handling evidence. I have been in the Arbitration Court and I know the worth of that. Imagine, for instance, a legal mind attempting to deal with three railway grades such as train examiners, undergear repairers and running-gear repairers. In New South Wales, for instance, those three grades have different names and in South Australia three other designations areemployed. I look forward to the day when a government of this country will say that there shall be an industrial tribunal on which there shall be an expert employees' representative and an expert employers' representative. It would not matter who was appointed chairman so long as he had an impartial mind. Such a court would eliminate the ridiculous farce that is going on at the moment. How can men on £3,000 a year determine a just living wage? They do not know the hardships of the workers. Whatever award they make will be scaled  by  the employers. At the first opportunity the verdict of the people should be sought by referendum on the question of the Commonwealth Parliament being given complete control over trade and commerce. Then the workers would be assured of getting the full benefit of awards of the court. Industry can now pass on wage increases granted by the court and consequently the workers get no 'real benefit. The Labour party will not abandon the fight for the rectification of the present situation. The trade union movement is insistent that a fair deal should be given to the workers. Senators belonging to the Labour party have been inundated with letters from organizations urging rectification. We attend meetings and explain the situation to the workers. They are not satisfied. They point out that we, as members of the Labour party, supported the passing of the National Security Act and they ask why the Government does not use the power it has under that act to give the workers an increase of the basic wage. 
I regret that under privilege  Senator Keane  took the opportunity to criticize the judges of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. 
The Government is committed to the principle of industrial conciliation and arbitration.  Senator Keane  referred to the action of the Government in granting the special war allowance of 6s. a week to 60,000 men engaged in war industries. The important feature of that policy is that those men were conscripted into industry to do a certain job. I am convinced that the honorable senator has taken the opportunity to ventilate this subject in the Senate in order to make political capital of it, because he resents the criticism levelled at him and his party colleagues by extremists and agitators who are not playing the game. The Government stands for conciliation and arbitration as does the Labour party. Therefore in this period of our history the honorable senator should not criticize the court; instead, he should criticize the agitators who are trying to influence working men to take certain action because Arbitration Court awards do not suit them. At the present time the workers of Australia are enjoying better conditions than those in any other country. It is ridiculous for  Senator Keane  to suggest that the Government shoulduse the National Security Act to increase wages over the rates provided in Arbitration Court awards. If the financial position of the country would permit, I suggest that any increase granted should be made to those men who are taking their lives in their hands so as to protect the people of Australia. I repeat that the Government stands for conciliation and arbitration and. adheres to the decisions of the court. I object strongly to the speech made by  Senator keane. 
For a number of years the Arbitration Court has adopted the wrong basis on which to arrive at what is the workers' equitable share of his product. For October, 1918, the Board of Trade fixed the basic wage in New South Wales on the basis of figures collected by the Commonwealth Statistician,but those related to only part of the elements which constitute the basic wage. In the Higgins judgment of 1907 carried on by the Rolin award in 1914 in New South Wales, the elements on which the wage was fixed were food and groceries, house rent and miscellaneous elements. That basis was continued during the war and then New South Wales gave a lead by constituting the Board of Trade. The act constituting that body laid it down that the Board of Trade shall, from year to year, after public inquiry into the average cost of living, declare what shall be the living wage to be paid to adult male and female employees. The question arose as to the actual elements on which the wage should be based. After investigation, the Board of Trade decided in 1919 that certain elements other than food and groceries and house rent were identifiable and capable of separate treatment and assessment. They were clothing, fuel and light. 
The Holman Government, and it was a government with the same party label which abolished the Board of Trade and handed over the duty of fixing the basic wage to a body which uses an erroneous set of figures. I shall give two instances illustrating the inaccuracy of the figures. The Commonwealth Statistician sends out cards periodically asking house agents to state the predominant rent for three and fourroomed wooden and brick houses. Suppose that an agent has 25 houses to let at £1 a week and fifteen houses at £2 a week, he returns £1 a week as the predominant rent. When making a public inquiry in Bathurst in 1919 the Board of Trade found that the Commonwealth Statistician's figures set forth that the average rent for three and four-roomed houses ranged from 9s. to Ils. a week. Scores of people  owned  houses in Bathurst and were collecting their own rents which never came within the purview of the Statistician. The Board of Trade collected information which showed that the average rent of a four-roomed house was 15s. a week. On that basis the board fixed the average rent for New South "Wales at 15s. 7d., thereby ignoring the Commonwealth Statistician's figures. On the 15th of each month cards are issued by the Commonwealth Statistician's office asking tradespeople to furnish information relating to the average price of 46 items of commodities. Supposing a grocer is selling 40 lb. of tea at 2s. and 50 lb. at ls. per lb. he states when filling in his card that the predominant price of tea is ls. per lb. Take the item "miscellaneous ", and consider the items it should include. Replacements are necessary in the worker's home - replacements of household linen and such articles as soap, crockery, brooms and floor polish. The worker has also to pay fares to travel to and from work and he is entitled to fares for recreation. The Board of Trade in New South Wales allowed the worker one fare a week to get to the beach. Then allowance should be made for amusements, such as a visit to a picture theatre, donations to a church, and medical, hospital and dental expenses. Allowance should also be made for the purchase of newspapers and stationery. Rent is an important element. I understand that the Commonwealth Government is permitting the New South Wales Government to fix rents, but I know that there are landlords in Sydney who are increasing rents to an exorbitant extent. One landlord who owns a number of houses in Clovelly, a suburb of Sydney, has increased rents from 25s. to 32s. a week during the last few months. The Government has full power under the National Security Act to protect wage-earners. There are thousands of unemployed in New South Wales trying to drag out an existence on the unemployment dole, yet the Government expects members of the Labour party to co-operate with it. We challenge, the data on which the basic wage is fixed. The act constituting the Board of Trade in New South Wales was amended to provide that the board could vary any declaration it made. The Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration does not make "variations in regard to the basic wage determined apart from a costly inquiry. It has postponed its determination on the claim of the unions for a higher basic wage until next June without giving any reason for such action. The working people are being exploited in many ways by combines. I shall give one instance relating to the price of bread, which is an important element in the fixation of the basic wage. The price of flour is fixed at £12 15s. a ton. Millers in New South Wales extract gluten from some flour and add it to flour which they sell to bakers at £15 15s. .a ton, with a guarantee of 19 per cent, gluten content. What becomes of the flour from which gluten is extracted? I have reason to believe that it is sold to bakers in the industrial suburbs, and bread made from it lacks the proper nutritive value, and in some instances has to be thrown away eight hours after baking. In Balmain working people have bought bread which goes black in a. day. I appeal to the Government to take effective action to improve the social condition of the great mass of working people who are doing their utmost to assist in the war effort. 
I believe that the basis upon which the basic wage is determined is entirely wrong. I should 'have preferred  Senator Keane  to have dealt with that matter, but he indulged in lime-lighting. He claimed that the Commonwealth Arbitration Court is incompetent to fix the basic wage because the high standard of living enjoyed by the judges of the court renders them incapable of deciding what is a reasonable standard for the underdog. I should like to learn whom the honorable senator would select to fix the basic wage. If he selected an unemployed man who had no standard of living the result might be the fixing of the basic wage at a lower rate than that determined by the court. Does the honorable senator consider that Parliament should fix the basic wage? If Parliament had that responsibility the honorable senator and his party colleagues, would have the opportunity to play to the gallery, an opportunity they never fail -to capitalize.  Senator Keane  did not suggest an alternative to the present system; he merely charged the court with incompetency. He quoted from the court's judgment and pointed out that it agreed that in certain instances the basic  wage was inadequate. I agree with him on that point; hut he did not suggest any remedy. The court said, in effect, that the single man and the married man without children were receiving too high a wage, the married man with one child was getting an adequate wage, but the basic wage was inadequate for a man with more than one child. To remedy this  Senator Keane  advocated an all-round increase of 6s. a week in the basic wage. Is he in favour of the single man receiving an increase of 6s. a week?  Senator Keane  proposes to give nothing additional to the single man of 20, but the single man of 21, who, except that he has a vote, is often no better than the man one year his junior, is to receive an extra 6s. I should have been the .first to fall into line with the honorable senator had he shown how we could remove the injustices and anomalies which result from the present basis of wage fixation, instead of playing to the gallery in the hope of making some political capital. I believe that a properly constituted authority should fix the adult basic wage and that there should &gt;be added to that wage an allowance, call it what you will, for a man when he marries and endowment for each child. Only by that means can we hope to achieve equity.  Senator Keane  and his party threw equity to the winds in their search for votes. 
The honorable senator, supported by  Senator Arthur,  dealt with rents as they affect the basic wage. I am appalled by the fact that the wage-fixing authorities, the Commonwealth Arbitration Court and the Industrial Commission of New South Wales, say that in Sydney a fourroomed cottage is obtainable for 18s. a week, and escape criticism. Only in the Sydney slums is it possible to obtain a cottage for as low as 18s. a week. The whole basis is wrong, but  Senator Keane,  in order to remedy his grievance on that score, wants to have the basic wage increased. He would give the single man, who has no rent to pay, the amount of the increase which would be represented in his proposed rental allowance. Where is the equity? The court has decided that the existing basic wage is sufficient for a man, his wife and one child. That being the case, something additional should be given to the man who has a wife and more than one child. Only then will the basic wage system be fair to the community as a whole. For many years I have been disgusted with the way in which the basic wage is determined. Under the present system the basic wage for females is only 52 per .cent, of the rate for males. In his calmer moments,  Senator Keane  will agree that there is no equity in that. In order to give the single man under 21 years of age a fair deal, let us first consider the relationship of the junior to the senior wage-earner. At present, a single man of 20 receives about, half the wage of the man of 21. That is entirely wrong, but there are no complaints from honorable senators opposite. Then let us consider the problem of the male and the female wage-earner. It is ridiculous to say that a single woman can hope to live on 52 per cent, of the wage of a single man. Let that anomaly be removed. Then we have to consider the position of a man with a family. The greater his family obligations, the greater should be the amount of money received hy him in wages or in some other form. Endowment, I believe, is the correct way in which to compensate him for his family obligations. I am disappointed that  Senator Keane  neglected to deal with those problems in his speech. The opportunity to remove those anomalies is provided by the National Security Act, which was mentioned by  Senator Keane,  but before that aspect can be dealt  with,  regulations under the National Security Act should be issued in order to standardize hours and the basic wage throughout the Commonwealth. Attempts to standardize the basic wage and conditions by referendum have failed in the past, but regulations under the National Security Act provide the means whereby that can be done. With uniformity achieved, the anomalies and injustices that have been tolerated for years could be removed. 
I support  Senator Keane.  I was astonished at some of the remarks made by  Senator Dein.  It seems to me that he has no conception of the principles of wage fixation when he says that the wage of a single man should be reduced. 
-The honorable senator expressed the opinion that single men were paid too much. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  J.  B. Hayes). -  Senator Cunningham  must accept  Senator Dein's  explanation. 
When  Senator Dein  Was dealing with rents which are not paid by single men, he said that a wage for single men similar to the wage for married men who had rent to pay was too much for them to receive. 

 - Senator Dein has explained what he said. 
I rose to say a few words on behalf of single men. They are a real asset to the Commonwealth at present, and, equally with married men, they render great service to the nation. 
.- I can imagine no circumstances more unsuitable than those of the present time for the introduction of a motion of this kind. The section of the community which  Senator Keane  represents has made an application to the appropriate tribunal of this country for an increase of the basic wage. The application was heard by three judges, and lengthy consideration  was given to the evidence placed before them. They came to the conclusion that they were not prepared at present to grant the unions' application. They did not dismiss it out of hand, but they adjourned it until the middle of this year because, as I understand the position, certain factors came under their notice which rendered it desirable that they should consider them in the light of circumstances which might prevail in the middle of the year. They said, in effect, " On the evidence before us, we do not think that this is a suitable occasion on which to increase the basic wage, but, having regard to the uncertainties which naturally surround all business conditions and primary production at present, we are prepared to leave the matter open until the middle of the year, when, perhaps, circumstances may have changed, and you may be able to satisfy us that there is a case for an increase ". Having applied for an increase, surely nothing is more undesirable than that those who appealed to the arbitrator should, in the course of the proceedings, suggest that the Parliament or the Government should override the arbitrator's decision. It cannot be said that the court did not give patient and earnest consideration to the evidence placed  before  it. After considering all of the evidence, it came to a conclusion which, I suggest, it is difficult for any member of this chamber to combat. It drew attention to the fact that, after all, this community is at war, and is devoting about one-fifth of its man-power and resources to the production of war material and the carrying on of the war effort. We have lost the services of men and women who were previously engaged in the production of goods that we require for the maintenance of our standards of living, and they are now engaged in occupations which make no contribution to the maintenance of those standards. In these circumstances, the court came to a conclusion to which those who represent the Labour movement should pay great attention. The Chief Judge said - 
It is self-evident that under prevailing war conditions the real struggle in the future will be to maintain, not to raise, existing standards, and to hold on to the present automatic adjustment of wages to the increased cost of living. 
We ' should not forget that the greatest safeguard which the trade union movement has to maintain those standards is the Arbitration Court which it now proceeds to attack. The Chief J udge went on - 
Such maintenance depends on our capacity to keep up the production of consumable goods, when 20 per cent, of our production has suddenly been transferred to war production, and when the expansion of savings and investments has been contracted by greatly increased taxation and by the necessary limitation of expenditure on non-war plant and equipment. 
No, it is a recognition of the realities of the situation. The political party which is prepared to go on believing in the idea that in time of war we can carry on our activities without the whole of the community making sacrifices is deluding itself and misleading its followers. 
This was an application for an alteration of the existing method of fixing the basic wage. Criticism of the court's judgment entirely overlooked the fact that wages have been automatically adjusted in accordance with the increased cost of living figures ever since the war started. The judgment discloses that, since September, 1937, the basic wage for Victoria has been increased by automatic adjustments by 9s. a week, and that during the same period, the automatic adjustments in New South Wales have brought about an increase of the basic wage by 12s. a week. It is nonsensical for members of the Opposition to suggest that this application for an increase must necessarily have been justified because of increases of the cost of living. Such increases have already been taken into account in the automatic adjustment that has been made. This was an application for an increase of the real wage which the worker is now getting, and I, for one, am not surprised to find that the tribunal, which has had the opportunity to consider all of the evidence, has come to the conclusion that at this time, at any rate, it is not right to indulge in increases of the present standards of living. The judgment does disclose one real social evil, and that is the fact that the existing basic wage, on the findings of the court, is only sufficient to satisfy the needs adequately of a man, a wife and a child. That, I suggest, discloses a social evil, which I should have thought the members of the Labour party would be anxious to redress. 
The evil will not be redressed by an all-round increase of the basic wage. It is because the Arbitration Court can deal with wages only on the basis of all-round increases that it cannot touch that problem. 
It is not bad economics; it is just a problem with which the Arbitration Court is unable to deal. If in order to deal with it the court awarded an all-round increase of the basic wage, the cost of living, as  Senator Keane  himself has admitted, would increase correspondingly, and, therefore, married men with families would be relatively no .better of? than they are to-day. 
The remedy is not an all-round increase of the basic wage, but a system of child endowment, such as we propose to establish, which will improve relatively the position of a man who has more than one child. It is no answer to this argument to say that prices will still increase, because, whether they do or do not, the married man., with more than one child, will receive a greater margin than the married man with one child or the single man, and, therefore, will be relatively better off in the scheme of things. In this manner we can make some contribution to the settlement of the real problem created by the court's judgment. 
It has made no such admission. What the court points out is that it cannot, as a wage-fixation tribunal, deal with this problem. For instance, the court cannot say that so much must be paid to a single man, and so much more to a married man, because, in that case, industry would employ single men in preference to married men. The problem cannot be dealt with on that basis. It can be dealt with, however, on the basis of a child endowment scheme which will be directed towards solving this problem by increasing the total wages-bill, and by ensuring that the increase shall be directed into the pockets of people who most need it. If that be done no justification exists for any attack upon present wage-standards, having regard to the circumstances in which we now find ourselves. 
The Leader of the Senate  ('Senator McLeay)  said that we were committed to conciliation and arbitration. The Opposition answers that we are not challenging arbitration as a principle. What we are challenging is the basis on which the Arbitration Court at present operates; and that is another thing altogether. Arbitration, as a principle, is supposed to be based on equity and good conscience. In its judgments, however, the Arbitration Court works on the basis of a minimum wage, the least on which the workers can live, quite irrespective of the wealth they produce by their labours. It follows, inevitably, that the least the workers receive, the more employers of labour will receive as their share of the total wealth produced. Therefore, our challenge is against the. basis on which the court operates in that respect. We say that the workers do not now receive what they actually earn. They receive a remuneration which is governed by their social influence. When workers are organized as is the case in Australia, they will receive more in the form of wages, or remuneration, than they would receive if they were not organized. When they are organized they exercise an influence which is expressed through the medium of this Parliament, and ultimately brought to , bear upon the subordinate institution known as the Arbitration Court. However, the workers' remuneration up to date has been limited strictly and rigidly to their actual needs. Why? Because this method represents the sum-total of the policy of the Government and the employers. To the degree that the needs of the workers are limited, the workers can be controlled and exploited more effectively. This policy is carried out so effectively to-day that apples and pears and foodstuffs generally are allowed to rot or to be destroyed, and production generally restricted, in order that wages, in terms of commodities which wages can  buy, cannot he increased. Broadly speaking, that is the policy being followed in industry to-day. That is why the basic wage, in. terms of what the money will buy, has not been increased since it was first fixed in 1907. The present basic wage in Victoria of £4 6s. will not 'buy a greater quantity of foodstuffs or clothing than was procurable for the basic wage of £2 2s. in 1907. Even if the basic wage were increased to £10 a week, we should find that, in accordance with the policy of this Government as given effect to by the Arbitration Court, prices would rise almost simultaneously. Although the wage increases in terras of money, the actual wage in terms of commodities never increases. The same effect will be produced by the Government's proposed child  endownment  legislation. Irrespective of the amount of the .basic wage, its purchasing power is limited to the minimum actual needs of the workers. To that degree it will 108 retained as a medium through which the consumption of the workers can be controlled, and their labours exploited in the interests of the. owners of the means by which they live.  Senator Keane  stated that child endowment will cost £13,000,000 a year. It has also 'been said that an increase of 6s. in the basic wage will also run into many millions of pounds annually. These millions of pounds are merely figures, merely terms of money. While we have available more material in the form of foodstuffs, clothing and housing than is sufficient to meet the needs of the people, money does not count very much at all. So long as we have material in abundance to meet those needs, there can he no legitimate argument why the basic wage should not bc increased. If the wage is not increased, the workers are not able to buy so much meat, bread, fruit, clothing, and so on. At present, however, the result of our wage fixation system, which is expressive of the policy of the Government and of the controllers of industry, is to arouse a self-defence reaction on the part of individuals and groups of individuals. So long as this policy operates as it does to-day, we cannot avoid industrial disputes and strikes. In the present crisis such disputes are as inevitable as the dawn.  Senator Spicer  said that the present .is not a time to bring this matter before Parliament. If that be so, it is also not a time when the leading monopolists in this country should accept an increase of their profits on an unprecedented scale, as such companies as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited, Australian Consolidated Industries Limited, and Burns Philp and Company Limited are doing. To the degree to which this process is indulged in, and these companies load up their profits, the purchasing power of wages is almost automa tically and mechanically indirectly reduced, because prices naturally rise. To-day, men arc working in munitions factories under conditions which are highly detrimental to health, and they are now asking for some relief.  Senator Spicer  says that they should not have relief. Why? Is the Arbitration Court, or the Government, beyond question? Will the unemployed and the workers generally submit indefinitely to that state of affairs? They will not. Therefore,  Senator Keane's  motion is not only warranted hut also necessary, because, by ventilating the subject in Parliament, thus producing debate and criticism, it is possible that an adjustment will he effected, before there is a further spread of industrial disputes and strikes. Let us deal for a moment with so-called agitators. An agitator in his individual capacity is of no more importance than any one of us. No agitator can exercise the slightest influence on workers who are getting a fair deal; but the position is entirely different when, overnight, workers are driven from their jobs and from their homes. Such happenings create an atmosphere and a background which makes so-called agitators appear formidable and terrible creatures. The cure for agitators, and for industrial disputes and strikes generally, is in the hands of this Government, which, in the circumstances, should do its best' to meet our request. As  Senator Keane  said, we have given the Government all the power it needs - power that would never have been given in normal times. But, having given, that power, is it reasonable to refuse the relief that we ask? We ask that the workers be given a little more money, not for the sake of the money itself, but because it will enable them to purchase a few more of the commodities that they urgently need. 
. I support the motion moved by  Senator Keane.  I quote the following article written by  Mr. Hartley  Grattan and published in  Harpers  magazine of August, 1940 :- 
Inward social health is the firmest foundation for a sound patriotism. We must have it in full measure. Mcn will enthusiastically defend that kind of  country.  To build a healthy society is the greatest of the tasks before us. If wo do not face it we are lost. 
That view was supported by  Dr. John  Dale, Chief Health Officer 'of the city of Melbourne, in an address delivered in Hobart recently.  Dr. Dale  should know what he is talking about, because, being a health officer, he must be familiar with slum conditions in Melbourne. The Arbitration Court and the Government's economic advisers have told us over and over again that it is economically impossible to raise the basic wage withoutcausing a great deal of trouble. That view has been held for many years by university professors and is held to-day by orthodox economists of the Ricardo school. Ricardo, who said that there was an iron law in respect of wages, held that since labour was a commodity its price fluctuated with the demand. When the demand for labour diminished, wages remained at a bare subsistence level. If the demand increased, wages would rise and workers would have more money. They would then have more children, and presently the addition to the population would bring the price of labour back to the bare subsistence level again. . Those are the ideas held to-day by economists advising governments in this country. Nassau Senior attempted to prove that hours of labour could not be reduced because the employers' profit came out of the last hour of operations. A 68-hour week was common at the time, and he said that if the last hour were eliminated, so also would industrial profits be eliminated, and the business of the nation ruined. In other words, if children in factories worked 67 hours rather than 68, panic would replace prosperity. Senior's contribution to economic theory proved that hours could not be reduced, and John Stuart Mill and other pacifists, by the famous "wage-fund doctrine", proved that, in effect, wages could not be raised. Workers joined unions and struck for a rise, and the economists said " Pure madness ". Why? Because there was a certain fund set aside out of capital for the payment of wages. It was all arranged by Heaven and arithmetic, and trade unions could do nothing about it. The wagefund theory was the stock answer of the manufacturer and the editor to the claims of the organized workmen. That theory has been blessed by economists and must be true. Observe how these " la ws " were put to tangible use, holding back improvements in working conditions for scores of years. The philosopher produced nonsense. Many classical economists had an axe to grind, and they ground it exceedingly sharp. Economists and government advisers today are receiving £1,600 and £1,700 a year for part-time jobs, and the theories' they hold are those advanced by such people as Ricardo and John Stuart Mill. It was not until 1876 that the wage-fund theory was exploded by an American economist, Frances Walker, who argued that wages were paid not out of a fund of stored capital, but out of current earnings - a theory which came closer to the facts. John Stuart Mill first popularized his wage-fund hypothesis in  The Principles of Political Economy  in 1848, and then, years later, he published the following statement: - 
The doctrine hitherto taught by most economists (including myself) which denied it to be possible that trade combinations can raise wages ... is deprived of its scientific foundation and must be thrown aside. 
That is exactly what I have said over and over again in this chamber. The day of the orthodox economist is fading and he will disappear completely before the present war is over. George Bernard Shaw defined political economy as the art of spending the national income in such a way as to bring happiness and prosperity to the greatest number of persons. Will any honorable senator opposite say that the Commonwealth Government or any of the State governments are working on those sound principles ? Can it be said that in this country the greatest good goes to the greatest number ? I say not. The greatest good goes to the few. It is only a chosen few who share this country's wealth. It is obvious that neither this Government nor the governments of the States fully understand the true principles of democracy.  Senator Spicer  spoke of the child endowment scheme. From what I have heard of that proposal, it will give with one hand and take away with the other. I understand that a feature of the scheme is that the income tax deduction allowed in respect of children will he withdrawn. 
It is usually the first child that is most costly to a young married couple. When a man in receipt of small wages marries, he has to furnish his home, and incur other expenditure. At the end of say, twelve months, a baby usually appears in the home and further expense is involved. The biggest blot on the proposed scheme is that no consideration is given  to the  effect which the scheme will have on a family. As I have said, the first child usually involves a considerable expense, and although a married couple might like to have more children on which endowment would be paid, because of the big outlay involved for the first child, they will refrain from increasing their family responsibilities. The Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  has frequently said that the greatest danger to this country is the falling birth-rate. Is there anything in world conditions to-day to induce people to bring more children into existence? 
That is so. The declining birth-rate in Australia increases our danger from such countries as Japan, where the birth-rate is more than 1,000,000 a year.Statistics issued in 1937 show that rent absorbs 20 per cent. of the workers' wages. Since that time rents have increased by 40 per cent.  Senator Dein  has told us that it is impossible to get a four-roomed house, even in the slums, for less than 17s. a week. When I was a boy - there were twelve in our family - we had a five-roomed house and later we had tobuild a shed at the back to accommodate the boys. Our house was ofbrick right in the city and yet the rental was only 6s. a week. Of course the basic wage then was only half of what it is to-day in actual money, but the point I am trying to make is that all those supposed improvements such as reduced working hours and an increased basic wage have not increased the purchasing power of the workers. It can be proved that the basic wage to-day is not so effective as it was under the celebrated Harvester award of 1907. 
It was proved in this chamber by ex-Senator Sheehan, who unfortunately lost his seat at the last election. Until we get orthodox economics out of the heads of honorable senators opposite, there is no chance of getting sound legislation passed through this Parliament or of obtaining reasonable Arbitration Court awards. It will be recalled that in preference to taking direct action the workers asked for an award of the Arbitration Court. It was a wise decision. How can a judge of the court who holds a military position give his attention to the claims of the workers? It is impossible to improve the position of the workers under the present monetary system. What is given them by one hand is taken away by another. The proposal submitted by  Senator Keane,  if given effect, would assist the great mass of people who are doing the real work of Australia but who are compelled to live on a mere subsistence. 
I take exception to the remarks of Labour senators in criticizing the judges of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration and alleging that they are incapable of gauging the conditions of industry and of the workers. The judges are not merely lawyers; they are also men of wide experience. They may notpossess that intimate knowledge of the domestic habits of the working man which has been stressed so much, but they have a general knowledge of conditions in industry. They have the power to take evidence on any matter relative to the claim before them and, because of their peculiar legal gifts in the sifting of evidence, they are competent to arrive at a decision on evidence respecting industrial conditions in Australia. The judges do not sit in austere dignity on the bench. I have seen one of the judges dressed in dungarees riding on the footplate of a Victorian locomotive bo as to obtain practical knowledge of engine-drivers.  Senator Keane  and his Victorian colleagues are naturally keenly interested in Commonwealth Arbitration Court awards and in the court itself. Industrial labour in Western Australia is not so keenly interested in the majesty of that court. Very few workers in Western Australia work under Commonwealth arbitration awards, the great majority being governed by awards of the State Arbitration Court. On the bench of that court there are no judges. The three members of the court are ordinary men who were formerly working men, and they understand industrial working conditions. They have also an intimate knowledge of the economics of industry in Western Australia. These three men, after hearing evidence relating to 'the cost of living, give determinations from time to time on the basic wage. I should say that  Senator Keane's  argument that the judges of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court have little or no knowledge of working conditions in industry is dissipated by the fact that the basic wage determined by the State Court in Western Australia approximates to the basic wage fixed for Western Australia by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. In November last, the State basic wage was £4 5s. a week, and the rate fixed by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court was £4 a week. The award of the State Court provides  for the needs of a man, wife and two children, but the Commonwealth award provides for those of a man, a wife and one child. Therefore, there is very little difference between the two basic rates. 
I agree that there are some anomalies in the arbitration system, but I think that many families lack a proper sense of proportion in the expenditure of wages. If there were more restraint on unessential in the expenditure of wages, we should not hear so much about the misery of the wage slaves. Take, for instance, the report that appeared in the press recently that in a certain city wives of workers tick up their racing bets with the local grocer and the amount of the bets are placed on the weekly bill. If there were less of that sort of spending and more commonsense applied to the expenditure of the weekly wage, there would be less talk of- misery among the so-called wage slaves. 
I deprecate the use of that expression because I am certain that there are no wage slaves in Australia. Our workers are not the type from which slaves are made. I think that senators are competent to deal with the subject raised by  Senator Keane,  and perhaps, because of our wider electoral districts, we are more competent to deal with it than are members of the House of Representatives, who must have regard to their more limited electoral districts. 
I have gained the impression that members of the Labour party who demand social improvements are branded by their opponents as agitators, the term used by the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  during this debate. The Minister said in effect that  Senator Keane  had been instructed by industrial agitators to bring this subject before the Senate. I regret that that remark should have been made because prominent industrial leaders who have been persistent advocates of social reform in the past are now taking a prominent part, not only in the real defence of Australia, but also in the prosecution of our war effort. The history of this country reveals that many social reforms were fought for by men who were branded as agitators. 1 have been described as an agitator, as has, I suppose,  Senator Keane.  Probably some of those described as agitators at the present time will eventually become members of the Commonwealth Parliament, and, possibly, Ministers of the Crown. A gentleman who once occupied a prominent position in the Senate and was for many years a Minister of the Crown was an agitator in Western Australia many years ago. Not so very long ago I heard  Mr. Ernest  Bevin, now one of the most respected men in the British War Ministry, referred to as an agitator. I regret that  Senator Spicer  did not tell the whole story. I admit that the court postponed its decision, but it did so without giving reasons for so doing. 
SenatorFRASER.- It did not decide that the case would not receive further consideration. 
That amounts to a postponement of a decision. 
The court had another motive in postponing its decision. I do not desire to criticize the court, because Labour has always stood for conciliation and arbitration. 
That is not so. At any rate, the court did not decide against the workers in this case. It merely postponed its decision. Whether that decision when reached will be for or against the workers, I do not know. My complaint is that the court, having heard the evidence, should either have made a decision or, at least, have given to the claimant unions its reasons for postponing its decision. 
SenatorFRASER. - The court decided to delay its decision, and, justifiably, I criticize it for its action. It was not prepared to give a decision. 
No; it said that it was not prepared to give a decision. 
There was no decision, and that is where I fall foul of the court. 
Exactly. That is what leads me to believe that judgment was postponed for the one purpose of enabling this Government to bring about a. scheme of child endowment. 
I am not far from the bull's-eye. I agree with  Senator Allan  MacDonald that the Commonwealth basic wage does not apply in a great number of industries in Western Australia, but the basic wage has been set down by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court on a unit of three, whereas the basic wage in Western Australia is based on a unit of 1.85. When child endowment comes into operation, if it ever does, it will affect the decision of the court in regard to units. That is my fear. I hope that it is ill founded. 
That may be the effect, because if child endowment is based on a unit of one child, the whole ramifications of the basic wage in Western Australia may have to be gone into and a certain decision reached involving the amount of the wages tax and a re-construction of the court's previous decision. 
I agree with a great deal of what was said by  Senator Arthur  about the 46 commodities which are taken into consideration in the fixing of the basic wage. The manner in which those 46 commodities are averaged sometimes acts to the detriment of the basic wage earner. To give one illustration, the computation of the average  per capita  consumption of meat in Australia is astray. The British element of the population eats a great deal of meat, but the foreign element does not do so. A better idea of the actual  per capita  consumption of meat would be gained if foreigners were excluded. I concede that it would be very difficult to do that. 
The court has laid down two principles on which it arrives at its decision. One is the workers' needs and the other is the  capacity of industry to pay. I shall deal briefly with each, first, with the needs of the workers. To use the words of the judge, there is definitely not sufficient in the basic wage to meet the needs of the workers. That was stated definitely when the judge said that the basic wage was adequate only for a man, wife and one child. No provision is made for the needs of families in which there is more than one child. That in itself is sufficient proof that the basic wage should be raised. The argument advanced by some honorable senators opposite, especially  Senator Dein,  that it would not be fair to raise the basic wage and to give the same basic wage to single men and married men with no children as to married men with children, will not stand examination. Why should it not be fair? The Government has its taxing powers, which it can use to remove inequalities as between married and single workers. It is more unfair for the court to delay its decision until the middle of this year, especially when it has admitted that the prevailing wage is insufficient to meet the needs of a family of more than three. Larger families are being deprived of the necessaries of life until such time as this or some other Government introduces a scheme of child endowment, or until the court considers it wise to increase the basic wage in order to make provision for them.  Senator Spicer  tried to evade the issue by introducing child endowment into the debate. Child endowment would be a boon if it were in operation, but so would a scheme of national insurance. The fact is that neither a child endowment scheme nor a national insurance scheme is in operation, whereas both have been promised. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

Honorable senators can dismiss from their minds the belief that child endowment would be of benefit to the workers until it is an accomplished fact. That is entirely different from saying that the Opposition does not want to see the scheme introduced, as some honorable senators opposite would have liked me to say. I claim that the need for an increase of the basic wage is more evident to-day than at any time during the last quarter of a century. It is true that the statistics take into account rises and falls of the cost of living, but these increases have been greater than the increases of the basic wage. Therefore, there was justification for an increase of the basic wage in response to the application recently made to the Arbitration Court by trade unions representatives. The decision of the judges was to the effect that industry could not afford an increase of the basic wage, but it is only necessary to consider the present profits of the large companies, as compared with the profits made by them at the commencement of the war, to be convinced that they could afford to pay an increased basic wage. 
It applies to the larger companies in Australia which control the major industries. I do not say that it would apply to the primary rural industries, but it does to the manufacturing industries. The financial position of 70 large companies representing " big business " in Australia has been traced from the 30th June, 1936. The 1937 basic wage declaration was based on the figures available at that time. The companies to which I have referred had paid-up capital amounting to £124,000,000, their disclosed reserves totalled £53,000,000, and their net profits had increased from 1936 to 1939 by 36.8 per cent. and their reserves by 40.5 per cent. If industry could not afford to pay an increase of the basic wage I am at a loss to know how it could pay for the proposed child endowment scheme. Whether the cost were raised by means of taxes, by deductions from pay-rolls orby means of revenue, it must come out of industry. If industry will be in a position to finance such a scheme- and I hope that child endowment will be an accomplished fact at some future date - it would have been able to meet an increase of the basic wage from the time when the court last considered an application in regard to it. Had the court granted that increase from that time, those families which are not now getting sufficient wages would not have to go short of the necessaries of life which they will be deprived of until the present 
Government, or some future government, introduces a child endowment scheme. 
Insofar as this debate lias constituted a criticism of the Arbitration Court, its personnel, or its decisions, I entirely dissociate myself from it ; but I do not think that  Senator Keane  went out of his way to criticize either the court or the system of arbitration. What lie endeavoured to do was to suggest to the Government that, whatever lack there was, from his point of view, in the judgment of the court, the machinery of the National Security Act should be put into operation to implement the court's decision. That, I think, would be a most dangerous thing to do, because a period would be reached when the powers that the Government could now exercise in that regard would lapse. It would be rank folly on the part of the Government or of the Parliament to make a provision which would not be permanent in its character. This debate serves to indicate the viedom of the limitation imposed by the Constitution upon the powers of this Parliament in this respect. The intrusion of industrial questions into the political arena has been one of the most undesirable features of parliamentary life in Australia. In the United States of America, political and industrial matters are kept entirely apart. Unfortunately, we have not implemented what was suggested to us many years ago when the Arbitration Court proceeded to weld on to our wages system a provision for child endowment. To-day, child endowment has become inextricably mixed up with the wage question, although in reality it has nothing whatever to do with it. The purpose of child endowment is to improve social conditions. If this Parliament had had the necessary power it would no doubt have long ago dealt with that problem. In both State and Commonwealth arbitration tribunals, judgments have been delivered awarding a basic wage that provided for nonexistent children. 
The object of child endowment should be to preserve the continuity of the race of which we are all so proud. I understand that we shall be entrusted soon with the duty of considering a measure providing for child endowment, which, I think, should cover every child under the age of sixteen years. The distinction that has been drawn with regard to the first child is, to my mind, an artificial one. This Parliament should obtain powers to deal with this matter on a scientific basis. Honorable senators appreciate the limitations of our wage system, and they recall the difficulties encountered in that regard during the last war. The efforts then made were abortive, as the result of skilful political manoeuvring. The Government of the day desired to secure amendments of the Constitution that would enable it to deal with the position, but its efforts were frustrated by its political opponents. This discussion may have done a certain amount of good by having clarified our minds with regard to a measure which I understand will be brought before us, but I deprecate criticism of the Arbitration Court hy Parliament. The judgment read by Senators Keane and Spicer clearly proves what that court had in mind. It said that the present basic wage is sufficient for a man, a wife and one child, but insufficient for a larger family. We should endeavour to have this position remedied, so that the industrial section will have respect for the decisions of the court. The trade unionists should not seek the jurisdiction, first of a State court, and then of the Commonwealth court, or vice versa, as has happened in the past. Under the wages board system, representatives of employers and employees had to be appointed. If one of the members of a board resigned much delay would be occasioned during- the appointment of his successor. In the meantime, the board could not function. An honorable senator contended to-day that lawyers should not be permitted to appear in the arbitration courts. 
The honorable senator himself is a budding lawyer. He is probably more astute, because he knows the tricks of the trade, than any well-trained lawyer  on  ibn industrial side. At present, we desire industrial peace more than anything else. If this discussion has done nothing else, it has, at least, brought before us the necessity for doing something along the lines of the proposals made in  1929 to clear up the anomalies associated with our present arbitration system, as well as all those difficulties and delays devised by the ingenuity of man. Speed is more essential in industrial arbitration than in any other branch of the law. Putting the matter in a nutshell, I say that if the temper of parties is such today, as I believe it to be, we should get closer together in an endeavour to eliminate from our social and political life the bitterness caused by industrial disputes. 

 .- in reply - I propose to reply briefly to one or two points made by honorable senators opposite. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  stated that I advocated direct action. I referred to direct action only when I was explaining the dissatisfaction of the workers with the present cumbersome procedure associated with arbitration. I made certain suggestions which I urged the Government to adopt in order to speed up hearings in the court. I, personally, have never supported direct action, although I shall support it if the controllers of the trade unions, in their wisdom, decide to adoptthat method. However, I sincerely hope that the day of direct action will never come. Honorable senators opposite also stated that this so-called attack on the Arbitration Court was due to the influence of agitators. Some of those so-called agitators are very prominent in the industrial life of this country, and, in the present crisis, have gone so far as to speak from the same platform as the head of this Government. In doing so they certainly did not increase their prestige in the eyes of some of their supporters. They took such action, because they believed that the issue involved was greater than the matter which we are now discussing.  Senator Dein  referred to the wages of female workers. It is the greatest industrial scandal in this country that the wages of females are only 54 per cent, of the male rate. Necessarily, the Arbitration Court, when deciding what is a fair wage for certain men, cannot discriminate between single men and married men. Its duty is simply to determine what it considers to be a fair wage for certain work, whether it be performed by single men or by married men. I welcome the Government's proposal to introduce a scheme of child endowment. But the fact remains - and I say this particularly in reply to  Senator Dein  - that governments politically akin to this Government have failed to introduce such a scheme, although they have been in power for over 25 years. To me the coincidence between the Government's present proposal and the recent judgment of the Arbitration Court seems most remarkable. I welcome child endowment in any form, because it represents at least an attempt to implement the policy which the Labour party has advocated for generations. I was not surprised that  Senator Spicer,  who is a member of the legal profession, had nothing to sa.y against the Arbitration Court. He took refuge behind a legal platitude when he said that the community could not carry the cost of an increase of the basic wage on the basis of the number of children in a family. That was the gravamen of his argument. The court's judgment indicated that our exports must be expected to decrease, and, therefore, our primary producers' income will be reduced. The honorable senator declared that in those circumstances industry could not bear the burden of a further increase of the basic wage. If the war lasts another eighteen months, as undoubtedly it will, the cost of the present conflict to this Government will not be under .500,000,000. That money will be found. It, is absurd to say, therefore, that we cannot find £12,000,000 a year in order to extend the special allowance of 6s. a. week to workers as a whole. Last December the Government submitted to Parliament a splendid programme of defence works, but Ave  had no sooner returned to our homes than we read that it was proposed to form a mechanized unit. That announcement was accompanied by the cold statement that the cost of the new unit would be £30,000,000. Where is that sum to come from?  Senator A.  J. McLachlan  said that it would be dangerous for the Government to extend the 6s. allowance to workers as a whole. Under the national emergency legislation the Government has power to override any act of Parliament. I submit that, in this instance, it should over-ride our industrial legislation. Workers as a whole are co-operating 100 per cent. in the Government's war effort. They are on titled at least to some consideration along the lines I have outlined. 
All of us agree that the cost of living has risen. As  Senator Aylett  pointed out, the quarterly adjustments do not fully meet the position because they cannot take into account the inevitable lag between the cost of living and wages. Particularly is this so under war conditions.  Senator Arthur  made an excellent point when he showed that the regimen on what the basic wage is fixed makes no allowance for the cost of many articles which are essential in the home, including, for instance, medicines, school books, and other incidentals requiredby the workers' children. Many ordinary domestic articles are not allowed for in the cost of living regimen. I again direct attention to the statement of Chief J udge Beeby that the only inquiry yet held into the basic wage was that conducted by the royal commission of 1919-20. That commission reported in November, 1919, that the total cost of living was £5 16s.1d. a week, made up as follows : - -Rent, £1 0s. 6d. ;  food, £2 6s.1½d. ; clothing, £1 9s.; and miscellaneous, £1 0s. 5½d. The average rent in Melbourne to-day is from 25s. to 30s. a week, whilst the cost of foodstuffs and clothing is considerably higher than it was in 1919. At the same time, however, the basic wage to-day is only £4 5s. Superimposed on the higher cost of living to-day are such imposts as sales tax. In these circumstances the workers applied for an increase of the wage of £4 5s., but the court deferred judgment. 
This discussion has been decidedly helpful. If our representations are not heeded by the Government, I can only say that we on this side do not, propose to close the matter with this debate. The Labour movementhas given unqualified support to the Government in its war effort. The Opposition in this Parliament has never impeded abill in connexion with the Government's war activities. Consequently, we now contend that some concessions should be made to the workers. The great majority of the workers cannot live on the present basic wage. I propose my motion definitely as a protest against present conditions. I repeat the comment which I made earlier concerning the members of the Arbitration Court bench ; they are unfitted for their job. Chief Judge Beeby agrees with that view. He says that the fixation of the basic wage is the duty of the national legislature. The workers as a whole are now looking to this Parliament to do its duty in that respect. As awards of the Commonwealth court mainly affect workers in only four of the States, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania, I believe that had the court awarded a fair increase of the basic wage, the extra costs involved would not havebeen more than £1,000,000 a month. 
Motion -by  leave  - withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What are the total expenses incurred by patriotic associations in Australia? 
What percentage of the total collected goes in expenses, and what are the expenses for ? 
How many paid secretaries arc there in Australia receiving money out of funds collected for patriotic purposes? 
Is it a fact that some secretaries' salaries range from £500 up to £1,000 per year, plus expenses? 
How many paid secretaries are receiving £500 and over per year out of patriotic funds? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
Patriotic funds in all States, except Tasmania, are controlled by and subject to the legislation of those States and the information required cannot be obtained from any Commonwealth source. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Who are the personnel of the Australian Wheat Board? 
What salary is paid to each member? 
What allowances arc provided for each member ? 
What is the total cost of the board from January, 1940, to December, 1940? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
The personnel of the Australian Wheat Board is as follows: -  Sir Clive  McPherson  chairman;  Mr. E.  Field,  Mr. D.  L. Clarke,  Mr. F.  H. M. Cullen,  Mr. J.  W. Diver, representing wheat-growers;  Mr. H.  G. Darling,  Mr. J.  S. Cameron, representing wheat merchants;  Mr. J.  Gatehouse, representing millers;  Mr. J.  S. Teesdale,  Mr.  1A.  C. Tilt, representing wheat-marketing pools;  Mr. R.  Hamblin. representing bulk-handling authorities. 
Salary or fees payable to each member are as follows:-  Sir Olive  McPherson, £750 per annum (not drawn) ; Messrs. Field, Clarke, Cullen and Diver, £500 per annum'; other members, fee of £5 5s. lor each day of attendance at a sitting of the board. (Some fees not drawn.) 
Allowances payable to each member are as follows: - (o) Travelling allowance of £2 2s. a day is payable to members of the board other than Messrs. Field, Clarke, Cullen and Diver. This allowance ia payable when members of the board are obliged to be absent from their homes overnight in connexion with attendance at 'board meetings or in business connected with the board; (6) fares actually and necessarily; incurred in travelling to the place of meeting or on the business of the board, are paid to all members. 
The total fees and travelling allowances of members of the board from January. 1940, to December. 1940, were £4,810 10s. 9d. 
The members  of  the  Opposition  are opposed  to  this clause because  we see no  reason whatever  to  increase the number  of  commissioners from five  to  seven. We think that five  is  quite sufficient, and that included  in  that number should  be a  representative  of  the Labour movement. We  do  not suggest that a Labour member  of  Parliament should  be  appointed; but there should  be no  difficulty  in  getting a  man  admirably qualified for the job because  of  his knowledge  of  the value  of  wireless and its requirements, and  all  that radio means. We shall oppose the clause  as it  now stands. If the number  is to be  seven, then  we  suggest that 
Labour should have two representatives on the commission. 
I ask the committee to accept the clause in its present form. The Government has given considerable attention to this matter. Honorable senators will appreciate that the commission settles matters of policy only. The payment made to the members of the commission is more in the nature of an honorarium. The  chairman  receives £500 a year, the  deputy chairman  £400, and other members £300. I assure honorable senators that I have had an opportunity to examine the work of the commission, and I cannot speak too highly of it and its members, who have devoted much time, energy and enthusiasm to their work. If we were to double or treble the amounts paid to the members of the commission, in some cases we would not be compensating them for the work that they are doing. 
Yes, but members of the commission are on the joh at all times. Meetings are held regularly once a month, and on other occasions should the need arise. The science of broadcasting is developing with amazing speed, and from what I said in my secondreading speech, honorable senators can appreciate the various interests that are controlled by radio. After a close examination of the duties of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in determining our national broadcasting policy, I came to the conclusion that it was advisable to recommend the appointment of some one closely associated with the Trades Hall or the Labour movement so that the views of that section of the community may he given full consideration. As I said in my second-reading speech, it is not the desire of the Government that broadcasting should become the instrument of party politics, and it is not envisaged that a Labour representative would watch only the interests pf one section of the community. We have only to take the fine example set by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  himself to see how the proposed Labour appointee could act. On matters even apart from party politics,  he displays great eloquence, and shows a wide knowledge of the subjects on which he speaks. I sincerely believe that a Labour representative would be of great value to the commission in determining matters of policy. A point of particular interest is the development of instruction given by means of radio to children, particularly in country centres where, in some instances, there are no schools at all. To-day, there are scholars in 1,900 schools listening to national broadcasts which bring to no fewer than 100,000 children radio talks of particular interest to them. I propose to recommend to the Government that a man possessing high educational qualifications be appointed to the commission in order that there may be a better spread of ideas and a consideration of all points of view when dealing with matters of policy. I earnestly urge the committee to accept what I have put forward as being in the best interests of national broadcasting. 
Without wishing to repeat the arguments that I advanced on the second reading of this bill, I oppose the appointment of two more part-time commissioners to a part-time job. I am unable to understand what the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  has just said with regard to the extension of the science of broadcasting. We all know that the technical services associated with broadcasting are in the hands of the Postmaster-General's Department, and are not controlled by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. To say that by adding two more members to the part-time commission, better management and regulation will be brought about is no argument at all. For that reason, if for no other, I oppose the proposed increase of the personnel of the commission. 
I repeat that I fail to see why the nominee of any political group should have some particular attribute fitting him to be a member of the commission. I oppose any suggestion that because a man happens to belong to the Trades Hall or to any other political group, he should be appointed to the commission. The Postmaster-General is entirely wrong in putting such a suggestion forward, and I am opposed to it. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [2.56]. - I am opposed to increasing the personnel of the commission. I fail to understand the logic of  Senator Allan  MacDonald's argument in regard to the appointment of a Labour representative, just as he fails to understand the Minister's argument. I do not agree that the appointment of a Labour representative would be a political move.  Senator Allan  MacDonald said, in effect, that no political representative had been placed on the board, but with that I disagree. Practically every man appointed to the commission by this Government has had political experience in the ranks of the party of which the honorable senator is a member. 

 -(Senator James McLachlan). - I canot allow the debate to proceed on those lines. The question now before the committee is whether the personnel of the commission should be increased from five to seven. 
I say definitely that it should not be increased. I am dealing now with the present members of the commission.  Senator Allan  MacDonald argued that if the personnel were increased it would simply be to make provision for a Labour representative, but that is not necessarily so. To my knowledge it is the first time that  Senator Allan  MacDonald or any other honorable senator on that side of the chamber has taken exception to any brand of politics being represented on the Australian Broadcasting Commission.I happen to know the political opinions of . some of the members of the commission. 
This discussion seems to have got honorable senators into troubled waters. I have some knowledge of the constitution of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and I remember well the unhappy circumstances in which it was first appointed by the then Postmaster-General  (Sir Archdale Parkhill).  That honorable gentleman struck a number of breakers in his administration, and the original  chairman  resigned. It has not been a bed of roses for those who have followed him. There have been appointments to the commission which were in no sense political. The Government of which I was a member appointed  Mr. Kitto  to the commission when he retired from the PostmasterGeneral's Department. He was one of the original appointees, and he has given excellent service indeed. I do not intend to discuss the personnel of the commission, but what I do wish to bring forward is this: Although I was not successful with a recommendation which I made to the Government in connexion with this matter, I feel that broadcasting could bring the people of this country closer together. In Tasmania and Western Australia the people seem to regard themselves as a race apart. 
Possibly the honorable senator was on  Ben Nevis or in the Grampians. As the national broadcasting service is an asset of the people of Australia every endeavour should be made tobring in the people of Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania as full partners in the great institution administered by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the public interest. When I made a certain recommendation to Cabinet some years ago concerning the personnel of the commission, all its members and the general manager resided in Melbourne or Sydney. People living in Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Hobart and Launceston are as much interested in the broadcasting service as are the people of New South Wales and Victoria. I pay a tribute to the work done by the present  chairman  of the commission. Although he is a resident of New South Wales, I do not hold that against him. How could one hold anything against a man of such ability and possessing such a charming personality? I consider that the committee should support the Government's proposal to increase the membership of the commission. Then the Government could appoint seven persons of varying viewpoints. This vast power, placed in our hands by science, should be nurtured instead of criticized. It is only in its infancy. Consider what a tremendous weapon of war it is in the hands of scrupulous and unscrupulous authorities.  "Senator CAMERON  (Victoria)  [3.3].-  I am not much concerned whether the number of members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission remains at five or is increased to seven. I appreciate the statement of the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  that he thought improvement would be effected if  an  additional member were appointed to the commission to represent the trade union move ment. If the representative of the movement is selected by the Government, it will not necessarily follow that he will truly represent the movement. The only person who could be truly representative would be one selected by the trade union movement and be responsible to it. A person selectedand appointedby the Government would 'be responsible to the Government. Trouble has occurred in the past through governments selecting representatives of the Labour movement on different bodies. One case was the appointment of Labour's representative at the Geneva Convention. Onthat occasion the Labour movement had to submit a panel of names from which the Government made its selection. 
I am endeavouring to ascertain who will have the right to select the representative of the trade union movement. I suspect that the Government will make the selection. In that case the person selected would not in my view be truly representative of the movement. In similar cases in the past the movement has been permitted to select its representative, and such procedure in the case of the Australian Broadcasting Commission would be satisfactory to me. I do not agree with the contention that the members of the commission should be ashamed of their political views. They should be proud of them. 
I support the proposal that the number of members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission be increased to seven, because in that case-  there wouldbe less chance of a Western Australian being squeezed off the commission in the re-shuffle that will probably occur. The conditions of broadcasting in Western Australia differ from those in the eastern States. A high-class programme can be put on the air in the eastern States at an hour convenient to the residents in those States. Supposing that a programme is broadcast at 8 p.m. from Sydney or Melbourne, the hour then is 6 p.m. in Western Australia and my experience is that people are not keen to listen in at that hour because they are either returning home from work or are having dinner. The eastern States have a large number of national and commercial broadcasting stations, but there are comparatively few in Western Australia. National stations are required at Geraldton and in the north-west portion of the State. A representative of Western Australia should be appointed as a member of the commission to watch the interests of that State and particularly to give better services to our isolated and other country districts. I have no objection to a suitable person being appointed to represent the Australian Labour party. However, country residents are more dependent on broadcasting than are city residents. I suggest that if political affiliations are taken into consideration, not only should the Australian Labour party be entitled to representation, but also the Australian Country party. I support an increase in the number of members of the commission to seven because then the Labour party and the Country party could both be given representation.I hope that one reason for the Government's proposal to increase the number is not to enable it to grant leave of absence for two or three years to one of the present members of the commission. 
If the Government is prepared to adopt the principle that a representative of Labour should be appointed as a member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, I suggestthat the other six members should each represent a State. The commission should he an Australianwide organization. In each State there are persons competent and willing to serve on the commission. We should do our utmost to remove the impression in several of the States that national broadcasting is a monopoly of the two largest eastern cities. If the Government decides to give Labour representation on the commission, it should invite the Labour movement to submit a panel of names from which the Government could select a member. 
Question put - 
That the clause stand as printed. 
.- I direct the attention of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to the provisions of section 22 of the principal act - 
The Commission may collect in such manner as it thinks fit news and information relating to current events in any part of the world and may subscribe to news agencies. 
I suggest that what the honorable senator has in mind is already provided for. The powers of the commission under section 22 to collect news are unlimited. It is in the exercise of those powers that the commission provides its news services. 
 I listened attentively to what  Senator Spicer  had to say, but this bill amends the principal act in several directions. We want it to be made mandatory that the commission shall provide news services. If the principal act provides for what I am now asking, that provision has been shamefully neglected by the commission. We wish to take advantage of this clause to ensure that the programmes shall include news services. If we cannot have that provision inserted we shall vote against the clause. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be inserted be inserted  (Senator Collings's amendment). 
.- I move - 
That, after proposed new sub-section ( 1 ) , the following proposed new sub-section be inserted :  - " (la.) The Commission shall provide an adequate and independent news service under its own control in addition to any contracts or arrangements it may make in respect to news services." 
There is no need to stress the need for the amendment. 
We do not want any misunderstanding or legal niceties about it. 
.- Did the Postmaster-General  (Senator McLeay)  take heed of what I said last night about the unsuitability of the hour at which the Australian Broadcasting Commission's Canberra commentator gives his comment on the proceedings in Parliament ? 
Question put - 
That the proposed new sub-section be inserted  (Senator Collings's amendment). 
 I move - 
That,  after the word " Commission the following words be inserted, " either to take or », 
Whilst this clause gives to the GovernorGeneral power to veto a proposal of the commission, it does not give to him power to toll the commission to do something which it has not proposed to do. The Opposition desires that there shall bc no limitation of the power of the Governor-General in this respect. 
.- This is a far-reaching clause, and I think that it should provide that the Governor-'General may, by regulation, do certain things. In that case, the Parliament would retain control of the commission, and a regulation could be disallowed by either branch of the legislature. I appreciate the object of the Opposition. It desires complete control of the commission by the Government, and not by the Parliament. 
 The suggestion offered by  Senator Gibson  does not meet with the approval of the Opposition. We decline to submit to the delay that would be occasioned by the drafting of regulations which would have to be laid on the table of Parliament. The Opposition regards this clause as the most valuable feature of the bill, and it desires to improve it. The Governor-General means the Cabinet, and the Cabinet is responsible to the Parliament. The Opposition desires the Government to be given power to do the job that it ought to do. If this amendment be rejected, the Opposition sees no value in the bill. 
.- The Government has considered this clause carefully, lt cannot accept the amendment because it goes too far. 
 Action such as might be necessary under this clause would have to be taken with great speed. I am wondering whether the Minister has considered whether the powers to be conferred are sufficiently wide. In certain events of a most alarming character, it would be unfortunate if we . could not prevent the broadcasting of matter the publication of which was considered injurious to the people as a whole. When I was PostmasterGeneral I had to exercise  this  power, and I felt somewhat embarrassed, having regard to the terms of the statute. It seems to me that speed is of the essence of the contract. If the Minister knew of an impending event, he should be able to direct the  chairman  of the commission, or its executive officer, that certain information must not be broadcast. Since it would be necessary, under this clause as it stands, to get the Governor-General to attend a meeting of the Executive Council before certain action could be taken I am a little unhappy about the machinery that would have to be set in motion. Mischief could be done before a regulation could be issued. It seems to me that the Minister should have power to deal instantly with a matter of this kind, and should take the responsibility for it. He could consult with the Prime Minister or with such Ministers as were available. 
This clause has been considered carefully. If it became necessary for an instruction to be issued by the Government to the chairmanofthecommission,theMinister would be able to communicate with him by telephone, and inform him as to the action the Executive Council proposed to take. That, I think, would meet the needs of the situation. No doubt the commission would act promptly in such circumstances. If members of the commission failed to observe such an instruction, when the time came for their re-appointment they might find themselves displaced. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be insertedbe inserted  (Senator Collings's amendment). 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
As honorable senators are aware, reference is frequently made in an act toa Minister of State and, sometimes, to a particular department of State. Insofar as the reference is to a Minister, or to a department administering an act, provision is already made by section 19a of the Acts Interpretation Act that that reference is to be read as a reference to the Minister, or to the department, as the case may be, under whose administration or control the act is placed by an order of the Governor-General. Consequently, even when the department of State referred to no longer exists, as is the case, for example, in respect of the Defence Department, no problem arises, because the various acts once administered by the Minister for Defence and his department have since been placed, by order of the Governor-General, under the administration of the Minister for one of the four departments which have replaced the Department of Defence. Section 19a of the Acts Interpretation Act then provides that any provision that an act shall be administered by the Minister of State for Defence shall be read as a reference to the Minister of State for Defence Coordination, the Army, the Navy or Air. as the case may be. 
A new problem has, however, arisen, for which no provision is at present to he found in the Acts Interpretation Act. In certain acts a reference is made to a Minister of State who is not the Minister administering that act. An excellent example may be found in section 96 of the Patents Act, which provides for inventions to be kept secret in cases in which the Minister for Defence so directs. As the Patents Act is administered by the Attorney-General, section 19a of the Acts 
Interpretation Act can have no application. The purpose of clause 4 of the present bill is to provide that any such reference to a Minister, or to a particular department, shall be read as a reference to whatever Minister or department, as the case may be, the Governor-General specifies by order. Clause 3 of the bill merely amends section 19a. This is consequential upon the insertion of the new section. 
Clause 5 proposes to amend section 24 of the principal act in order to clear up doubts as to the penalty for which a company is liable in respect of certain offences. At present, section 24 specifically provides that the provisions of any act relating to offences, unless the contrary intention appears, refer to bodies corporate, as well as to persons. In several acts which provide for the more serious offences, however, the only penalty prescribed is one of imprisonment. Since it is obviously impossible to imprison a corporation, the question arises as to what penalty, if any, may be imposed on the corporation if and when it is convicted of any offence of this nature. Clause 5 proposes to amend the act so as to prescribe the maximum pecuniary penalties which a court may impose on a corporation where the only penalty prescribed by the act is imprisonment. 
Honorable senators will observe that sub-clause 2 provides that this amendment shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 3rd September, 1939. As proceedings might, after the commencement of this bill, be brought in respect of offences already committed by corporations, it appears necessary that this amendment must be made retrospective in order that confusion might not arise if and when any such proceedings might hereafter be brought. 
Opportunity has also been taken to amend section 33 of the principal act in order to rectify an omission that occasionally is the cause of some inconvenience. At present, sub-section 3 of section 33 provides that a power to make rules, regulations or by-laws shall be construed as including a power to rescind, revoke, amend or vary such rules, regulations or by-laws. The expression "rules, regulations or by-laws " does not, however, exhaust the instruments which may be made under an act. It will readily be appreciated by honorable senators that if a power is conferred to make or issue any instrument under an act, then the power to repeal or amend that instrument at some later date is necessary, even though the instrument does not come under the description of " rules, regulations or by-laws ". Examples of instruments not at present covered by the expression are proclamations and orders. Consequently, the bill proposes to amend the sub-section so that it will refer to any instrument made, granted or issued under a power conferred by an act. This measure is not contentious; it is merely designed to rectify certain anomalies which experience has shown to exist in the Acts Interpretation Act and which threaten to cause considerable inconvenience. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cunningham)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to make more stringent the existing provisions of the Defence Act relating to fraud in connexion with the supply of food, material and equipment to the Defence Forces. Section 73c of the act makes guilty of an offence any contractor, purveyor or other person, including any employee, who fraudulently supplies for use by the Defence Force certain inferior goods. Honorable senators will appreciate that it is one thing to prove that a contractor has supplied goods of an inferior quality, but quite another thing to prove that he fraudulently did so. The presence of a fraudulent intent may be obvious, but it is one thing for the fraudulent intent to be obvious and another thing to prove it before a court. The purpose of clause 3 is to remove the word "fraudulently",  but, at the same time, to make it a good defence if the contractor is able to show that there was no intent to defraud and that he was not aware of the inferior quality. In other words, instead of the Commonwealth having to prove fraud, it throws on the person charged the onus of showing an absence of fraud. The same section of the act also makes it an offence for an officer of the Commonwealth fraudulently to receive any such goods. Consequently, the clause omits the word " fraudulently " in this case also, and casts on the officer the onus of proving that there was no intent to defraud on his part and that he did not know that the goods were supplied in contravention of the section. 
As honorable senators are, perhaps, aware, when the Commonwealth enters into a contract for the supply of certain goods for the Defence Force, it usually arranges for the inspection of the goods, and places on them certain seals, or marks, to indicate that they are up to standard. Only goods so marked will then be accepted in fulfilment of the contract. There was a case in which goods bearing a forged mark are alleged to have been delivered. The most effective way to obviate any use of forged marks is to make it an offence for any contractor to have in his possession goods fraudulently marked. If the Commonwealth can nip this sort of thing in the bud, as it were, by catching the offender while the goods are still in his possession, rather than await delivery of the goods, this practice will quickly be stamped out. That is the purpose of the new section 73d which clause 4 of the bill proposes to insert. 
To persons of a certain type, who are able to make a substantial profit by their fraud, the imposition of a penalty, however large, may not always be a sufficient deterrent. Unfortunately, a company cannot be imprisoned. The new sections 73e and 73f proposed to be inserted by clause 4 are designed to bring these provisions of the Defence Act in line with the provisions of the National Security Act, and to make every director and person concerned in the management of a company guilty of the offence of which the company is guilty unless he can show that the offence took place without his knowledge, or that he had no reasonable means of preventing it. Proposed section 73f is designed to bring into line with the provisions of the National Security Act the penalties which may be imposed in respect of serious frauds of the nature to which I have referred. 
The provisions of the bill will, by virtue of clause 2, be made retrospective to the date on which the present war commenced. The measure is, undoubtedly, drastic ; but I find it difficult to conceive of crimes of a more reprehensible character than those with which this bill deals. This country is at war. To defraud the Commonwealth during a period of war is, in itself, most reprehensible ; but when that fraud takes the form of supplying to the Commonwealth equipment for the use of its forces of such an inferior quality that the safety, and, perhaps, the lives, of men may be endangered the natural hesitation to make retrospective any measure appertaining to the criminal law must disappear. I commend the measure to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I desire to refer very briefly to two important matters concerning which I have asked questions recently. The answers which I have received are most unsatisfactory. On the 19th March, I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce the following questions: - 
Is it a fact that in government institutions in Canberra it is impossible even to see good apples at any price? 
Is it a fact that in every Australian capital city apples are unprocurable at less than 2d. each, and that the New South Wales Government has ordered 10,000 cases of apples which the Director of Marketing admits he is unable to supply? 
If so, can the Minister inform the Senate just where the reported immense over-supply of apples, causing a serious glut in the market, is located? 
The answer I received read - 
The Department of the Interior provides regular supplies of fresh apples of good quality to all government boarding establishments in Canberra. 
That answer is incorrect. No such fruit is supplied to Gorman House, Canberra. When the women who reside there make complaints to the housekeeper, they are told that it is a matter for the Department of the Interior, and when the complaints are carried to that department, they are told that it is a matter for the housekeeper. In connexion with Canberra hostels, the latest report of the Auditor General states - 
With the exception of two establishments, all government-owned hotels and guest houses are leased. The working accounts of Gorman House show that a profit of £530 was returned. 
Despite the Minister's statement that fruit is being supplied to all hostels, 1 say that the women at Gorman House arc not getting fruit. Possibly some who take their lunches to work do have fruit placed in them. I am not quite sure about that, but the fact remains that fruit is not supplied at Gorman House. 
In answer to my second question, the Minister said - 
No. Apples are procurable in every Australian capital city at less than 2d. each. 
That may be true. I said that apples were not procurable for less than 2d. each. When I spoke of apples, I meant good apples and I also included " pears. We had some pears supplied to us at the Hotel Kurrajong last week. They looked exceedingly nice, but the first one I sampled was rotten inside, and I tried a second which was in the same condition. I say definitely that good apples, free from fruit fly, arc not procurable at any capital city iu Australia at less than 2d. each. When in Sydney last week, .during the visit of the American warships, I did see some apples on the barrows at less than 2d., but they could not be bought in the shops at the same price. 
Well, I did not see them. The Minister's reply continued - 
The Apple and Pear Board has arranged to provide fruit free of charge to the New South Wales Government for distribution to charitable institutions, hospitals, &amp;c. Supplies of fruit to be provided under this scheme are being made available by the board according to requirements. 
The answer given to my third question was - 
The over-supply of apples resulting from the cessation of exports will be located mainly in the States of Tasmania and Western Australia, and, to a lesser extent, in Victoria and South Australia. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the following report published in a Sydney newspaper recently: - 
While cases of hail-marked fruit are being fed to the pigs, Sydney residents are being asked to pay as much as 2d. for an apple for which the grower receives but id. 
I contend that, in view of the inf ormation I have given, I am justified in bringing this matter before the Senate. 
The other matter to which I wish to refer deals with a question asked by me on the 26th March. I regret that the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce is not in the chamber at the moment, but I hope that my representations will be passed on to him. I asked the following questions: - 
Is it a fact that the British Government agreed that the Central Wool Committee should allocate sufficient wools to employ all scours and carbonizing workers in Australia to capacity? 
Is it a fact that although New South Wales scours have an annual capacity of 70,000,000 lb., and during 1938-39 season actually scoured 38,195,743 lb., they were allocated only 22,191,304 lb.? 
Is it a fact that as a result 200 men have already been dismissed, and 200 more men are to go at the end of March? 
When I resumed my seat, the Minister interjected that he would be very surprised if my statements were correct, because he understood that there was a greater quantity of wool being scoured than ever before. However, he referred ray questions to the proper authorities, and then gave me the following answers : - 
Although the Commonwealth Government has more than once communicated its views to the Government of the United Kingdom, no actual agreement hasyet been reached between the two governments that the Central Wool Committee should allocate sufficient wools to employ all scouring and carbonizing works in Australia to capacity. 
That agreement should have been reached. It seems to me that there has been an utter lack of consideration for people whose employment depends entirely upon such an arrangement. The answer to my first question continued - 
By arrangement with the British Wool Control, the Central Wool Committee has to date allocated large quantities of wool for scouring and carbonizing in Australia. 
That is a delightful generalization which does not mean anything. My charge is that the quantity available for scouring has been reduced'. It may be quite true that large quantities have been made available for scouring. For instance, 22,000,000lb. is a large quantity, but if the quantity for the previous year was 33,000,000 lb., it represents a substantial reduction. 
The answer given to my second question was - 
For the season 1939-40, 22,191,304 lb. of greasy wool were allocated for scouring in New South Wales, and this comprised practically all the available scouring types ex appraisements. 
I suggest that, so far as possible, the wool should be scoured in this country so that our people can get the advantage. 
It has already been sold to the United Kingdom Government. The honorable senator is quite wrong, because the Minister does not take that stand at all. The answer to my second question continued - 
For the season 1940-41, the quantity of greasy wool allocated ex appraisements to date is 29,716,000 lb. The annual capacity of 70,000,000 lb. would appear to include output of scoured skin wool, as most of the scourers in New South Wales are also fellmongers. Fellmongers are at present seeking more sheepskins than in normal times and, in addition, the Central Wool Committee is allocating for treatment a large number of sheepskins which have been appraised for and on behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom. 
The answer to the third question was - 
The Minister was advised on the 12th March by  Mr. Glasson,  secretary of the Wool and Basil Workers Union, that 200 hands had been dismissed, and that others were on notice. 
That, of course, is exactly what I said, and what I had authority to say. The Minister appeared doubtful at the time, and now these answers prove that my statement was correct. I take this opportunity to place before the Senate figures issued this month by the Commonwealth Statistician concerning the quantity of wool scoured in Australia - 

<graphic href="166332194103272_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

In order to bring the figures up to date - because it is the current position of which I am complaining - I quote the following table for 1939-40 :  - 

<graphic href="166332194103272_30_1.jpg"></graphic>

It will therefore be seen that the total of 158,229,551 lb. for 1938-39 was reduced to 80,050,939 lb. in 1939-40. 
We on this side of the chamber are interested in the question of employment. Here we find that 200 men have been sacked and another 200 more are to be put off. As the figures which I have quoted indicate, that is taking place, not only in New South Wales, but also in every State of the Commonwealth, because in every State there has been a serious reduction of the quantity of wool scoured. The Minister, by way of interjection, suggested that my information must be wrong, and that he believed, as I am sure he did, that the position was the reverse. To make quite sure of my grounds, I obtained these statistics, which show conclusively that I was right. 
 in reply -  I shall refer the matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  and obtain his replies as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to inform the Senate that I have received the following message from Hia  Excellency  the Governor-General: - 
On the 21st November, 1940, I asked the Minister for the Interior if justice would be done to waterside workers whose permits had been revoked under the National Security Regulations. The Minister then promised that the Government would deal with the matter, and that some new arrangement would be adopted whereby a worker who had been deprived of his permit would be told why it had been taken away, and would be given an opportunity to answer any charge laid against him. I received a letter a few days ago from the Queensland branch of the Waterside Workers Federation in which it was stated that nothing had yet been done in the matter. Oan the Minister say whether steps have been taken to assist the men whose permits have been revoked, so that they will have an opportunity to answer the charges laid against them and to obtain justice? 
When the honorable senator previously spoke on this matter,  I  pointed out that steps were being taken to have it dealt with in a different manner from that in which it was being treated at that time, and arrangements were made to alter the prevailing system. Action must have been taken in the meantime, because a number of waterside workers whose permits had been taken away at that time have had them restored. I saw members of the Waterside Workers Federation in Brisbane last week. One case was causing a good deal of concern, and I asked the Minister for the Army to expedite it, in view of the fact that the permit had been held up for a considerable period. I shall again bring this matter under the notice of the Minister for the Army and the AttorneyGeneral, with a view to having it dealt with expeditiously. 
Has the Government made any arrangement, similar to that entered into during the last war, for the vocational training of men who have returned to Australia, and have been discharged because of a disability received upon active service ? I refer particularly to those men who have lost a limb, and so are unable to resume their former civil occupations.  -Senator COLLETT.  - The honorable senator gave me notice of his intention to ask this question, and I have prepared a reply which I trust will be informative and satisfactory. With regard to members of the fighting forces who return from service abroad, the Government, through the Repatriation Commission, has arranged that, when fit men are discharged, steps shall be taken to place them in suitable employment at the earliest possible moment. I might add, that, whilst awaiting employment, the ex-service man is provided with sustenance at a. rate that will obviate any immediate anxiety as to the welfare of himself and his family, if any. 
Men who were under twenty years of agc at the date of enlistment, or men who return from service with some disability which unfits them for a resumption of their former civil occupations, will be eligible to receive vocational training in selected trades, businesses, or other means of gaining a livelihood. Suitable allowances will be provided to cover the period of training. In this connexion I should point out that the technical training institutions are at present fully extended in teaching to meet the requirements of munitions production staffs, and also to meet the demands for technicians made by the three services. To meet the difficulty of making adequate provision for those with whom I am at the moment dealing, a committee, composed of representatives of the Repatriation Commission, the Department of Labour and National Service, and the three services - the Navy, the Army, and the Air Force - has been appointed, and will, it is hoped, be able to present for the Government's consideration a satisfactory plan, so that all in need may receive adequate aid. 
There being no dissenting voice, and there being more than an absolute majority of honorable senators present, as required by the Constitution, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister state whether the honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Coles)  has been engaged in investigations in England on behalf of the Commonwealth Government? Will the Minister also inform me when and by whom such investigations were authorized? 
I shall refer that matter to the Acting Prime Minister and obtain a reply for the honorable senator. 
Will the Minister for the Interior state whether the offices in the Commonwealth Bank Buildings, Martin-place, Sydney, occupied by  Mr. J.  G. Riddle, a solicitor, are held by him on lease? If so, how many square feet of floor space are covered by the lease, what is the term of the lease, and what is the rent paid for the premises? 
I point out that my department would have no information as to the terms and conditions on which the Commonwealth Bank Board made the lease available to  Mr. Riddle.  . 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce when the report and balance-sheet in connexion with the 1939-40 apple and pear acquisition scheme would be available. The Minister then promised to make inquiries regarding the matter. Can he now say whether the report is available, and when it will be presented to Parliament? 
I cannot give the information desired, but I shall make inquiries and, as soon as the report is available, I shall inform the honorable senator. 
I draw the attention of the Minister 'representing the Minister for the Army to the fact that, according to the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 29th March, a two-day interstate conference with respect to air-raids precautions was held at Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, over which  Senator Leckie  presided. Will the Assistant Minister tell me which States were represented, which services were represented, who were the representatives of the respective States, and who were the representatives of the services. 
Each of the States was represented. New South Wales and Victoria each had six representatives, and some of the other States had a fewer number of representatives. The conference was very successful. An account was given of all of the air-raids precautions work carried out in the various States, and I, personally, was gratified and surprised to find that Australia is in a greater state of preparedness to meet air raids than is generally supposed. If the honorable senator still desires to know the names of the representatives who attended the conference, I shall be happy to obtain them for him. 
-Will one result of the Air Raids Precautions Conference in Melbourne, over which the Assistant Minister presided, be that some moral and monetary assistance will be granted to  the  States which are complaining bitterly of the lack of cooperation accorded to them by the Commonwealth Government? 
The subject of finance was not raised at that meeting, but. it will be discussed at a subsequent meeting of State Premiers and appropriate Commonwealth Ministers. There were no expressions of dissatisfaction. In fact, at the close of the meeting approval was expressed of the fact that the Commonwealth Government was taking such an interest in the matter. 
Has your attention,  Mr. President,  been drawn to a report published in the Sydney  Sun,  on the 30th January last, of a Country party conference in New South Wales, at which  Senator Abbott  is reported to have said, " The present Senate was not of the calibre it used to be, and senators were tending to become mere rubber stamps " ?  Senator Abbott  bitterly attacked the present grouping system, and claimed that the present poor quality of senators was mainly due to that system. 
I have not seen the article referred to by the honorable senator. 

 Later: 

 by leave- 1  wish to make a personal explanation. The report referred to by  Senator Amour  is in some respects incorrect. At no time did I bitterly attack the Senate; that is untrue. I said nothing at that conference which I have not said in this chamber over and over again. I complained that the Senate was tending to become a rubber stamp. I complained of the lessening of initiative exercised in the Senate. I pointed out that the system of election of the Senate, before the grouping system was evolved as the result of acute party politics, induced men who had made some way in the community to stand for election to the Senate, and that that was one of the features of the old system of voting.  I also complained that the grouping system accentuated party politics. I do not think that any honorable senator, regardless of party, can conscientiously say to-day that the Senate would not enjoy more freedom, and exercise more initiative if it were, in fact, a House of review; and, consequently, it would not lay itself open to the charge now made outside - I did not make the charge - that the Senate is merely a rubber stamp. I repeat that I said nothing at that conference which I -have not said over and over again in this chamber. I did not attack the calibre of "honorable senators. I saw the report referred to by the honorable senator, but made no attempt to correct it because, generally speaking, none of us can spare the time that would be required to correct reports of this kind. At the same time, I read a report of that conference in another paper which did not refer at all to the aspects complained of by the honorable senator. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the Government intends to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act with a view to enabling the facte to be placed before Parliament concerning the remission of huge sums of money to wealthy taxpayers? Is it true that the sum of 42,000 was remitted in respect of the income tax assessment of one James Yates? If so, will the Government take action to reduce, or remit, the taxes of many of the poorer sections of the community who cannot meet the payment of their taxes? 
The honorable senator's question involves a matter of policy, and it is not customary to state matters of policy in answers to questions. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Army convey to the Minister the desire of universal trainees in Western Australia that something be done to alter the present system under which they suffer the loss of a considerable portion of their wages when they have to report for their preliminary medical examination? I point out that .1 was unable to interview the Minister on this matter. Will a statement be made in relation to it before Parliament goes into recess? 
I shall bring that matter under the notice of the Minister for the Army, and, if possible, make a statement as the honorable senator requests. 
I ask the Minister for Supply and Development whether he has any information from the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited that it intends to manufacture magnesium? If so, has he any definite information as to when that company will commence production? Has the Department made an exhaustive investigation into the process of manufacture contemplated in order to satisfy itself that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited can manufacture magnesium economically, as was done in respect of the process proposed to be used by the Australian Magnesium Company of Hobart? Has the Government received any guarantee from the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited that it will produce magnesium ?  If  so, at what price will it be put on the Australian market? How does the price proposed to be .charged by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited for. magnesium compare with the present import price of 2s.  0½d.  per lb., and with the offer made by the Australian Magnesium Company of Hobart to manufacture it and put it on the Australian market at from ls. to ls. 3d. per lb. ? 
The Government has definite information that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is putting up a plant, for the manufacture of magnesium. I understand that that plant will be in production in the latter half of this year. We have no guarantee from the company as to whether its process will be successful, nor in respect of the price to be charged. I point out that as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited did not ask the Government for any assistance, or protection, in this venture, we have no information of the kind asked for by the honorable senator in the latter part of his question. 
I have no knowledge as to what portion of the company's capital is to be utilized in the establishment of its plant for the manufacture of magnesium. The honorable senator, however, will recall that only recently the 
Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited made an additional issue of capital for which, I believe, it secured the approval of the Capital Issues Advisory Board. I am unable to say whether the company is using any portion of that capital on the production of magnesium. 
As no National Broadcasting Station is on the air in Northern Tasmania between 8.15 p.m. and 10 a.m., will the Postmaster-General request the Australian Broadcasting Commission to arrange for Station 7NT to provide a continuous programme during that period ? 
Is the Government negotiating with the Government of Western Australia with a view to the production of steel in that State? 
At the moment I know of no such negotiations, but I shall inquire into the matter. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Air whether the Minister is aware that a number of young men employees in the New South Wales railway service who enlisted and passed tests for the Royal Australian Air Force are denied full opportunities by the New South Wales Government to attend the scholastic course preliminary to taking up service in the Air Force? Since the young men mentioned are all employed alternately two weeks on day shift and two weeks on afternoon shift, and since the New South Wales Government refuses to arrange their employment so as to enable them to attend such classes, will the Minister counter such sabotage of Australia's war effort by the New South Wales Government by immediately arranging a day class from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. particularly at the Granville technical college, or at some other suitable hour of the day? 
I ask the senator to place his question on the notice-paper. However, his suggestion that the New South Wales Government is sabotaging  our  war effort depends upon whether the answer  to  the first part of his question is in the affirmative; and that may not he the case. 
.  I  move - 
That the Senate,at. its rising, adjourn till 10 a.m. to-morrow. 
Is the motion supported? 

 Four honorable senators having risen in- support of the motion. 

Whether the Senate desires that the committee should examine the war legislation thoroughly as it seems it must if the standing order remains unaltered; or 
Whether the Senate desires that, as the powers given to the Executive under the National Security Act to enable a maximum war effort to be made are so wide that the Government's war legislation should not be subject to scrutiny by the committee. 
It is for the purpose of obtaining an expression of opinion by the Senate on these questions that I have moved this motion. In considering these questions I direct honorable senators to the following extracts from Dicey's  Introduction to the Study of the Law of Constitution,  pages 407 and 408 :  - 
Under the complex conditions of modern life no government can in times of disorder, or of war, keep the peace at home, or perform its duties towards foreign powers, without occasional use of arbitrary authority 
The English executive needs therefore the right to exercise discretionary powers, but the Courts must prevent, and will prevent at any rate where personal liberty is concerned, the exercise by the government of any sort of discretionary power. 
After considering the words of this great English jurist, it is not illogical to suggest that there should be some parliamentary check to sec that the Government does not go beyond the bounds set by emergency legislation. The extract which I have read is also proof of the soundness of one of the principles on which the committee has worked in examining regulations, namely, " To see whether they trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties ". A check on the Executive's actions should not have any retarding effect on the war effort. After all, Cabinet Ministers have very onerous duties to perform, and often may not have the time to give adequate and statesman like consideration to items of delegated legislation submitted to them by public officials for approval, and may not therefore visualize all the repercussions which may occur, but which might be discovered by a committee charged with the duty of examining the regulations in a systematic manner. Any abuse so discovered and brought to the attention of the Government would probably result in the withdrawal of the offending regulations. If it is the desire of the . Senate that the committee should examine this legislation, then I consider that provision should be made for funds for the following purpose: - 
For the purpose of obtaining skilled legal assistance from outside the Public Service. 
There is evidence of the desirability and also of the need for legal assistance  being made available to the committee even before the war, in support of which I quote certain opinions. The late  Mr. W.  A. Holman, K.O., in a memorandum which he forwarded to a committee of the Senate on the Standing Committee System, said. - 
If such a committee is appointed,  I  would lit! bold enough to suggest that it should be aided by the services of a permanent legal officer, whose duty should be to read carefully all regulations as laid upon thu table and specially direct the attention of the committee to those which affect the liberty of the subject, the rights of trial, powers of arbitrary decision on the part of ministers and officials, powers of levying charges and other allied topics. 
Giving evidence before the committee, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  in reply to a question as to whether it would not be a big job to watch all the regulations issued, said - 
Yes, it might be desirable to have pro  fessional  assistance (ov the purpose. One qualified man ought to bc able to do the job satisfactorily. His investigation would be of considerable assistance, to a committee. 
I presume that the reference to a qualified man means a properly-qualified legal man. During the debate on the motion for the adoption of the committee's third report on the 14th May, 1936,  Hansard,  page 1715,  Senator Abbott  said - 
I discussed the work of the committee informally with the Attorney-General some time ago, and pointed out to  him  that the work was sufficiently heavy to warrant the appointment of a legal officer attached to the Senate staff . . . such  a  legal officer could devote his whole time to the task. The work which the committee  is  called upon to curry out  is  much heavier than honorable senators ever imagined it would be. 

 Senator Abbott was then a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. During the same debate,  Hansard,  page 1723, ex-Senator Duncan-Hughes said - 
If  the  Government thinks that we  are  illequipped  legally  for our work, why  does it  not take  stops to ensure that  proper legal advice is available  to us?  If that were done, it would take  a great deal  of work off our shoulders. 
To that suggestion the then Leader of the Senate,  Sir George  Pearce, replied - 
If  the committee  will make that recommendation, I  am prepared  to agree to it. 
Ex-Senator Duncan-Hughes was, at that time,  chairman  of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Then, as recently as the 22nd August last,  Senator A.  J. 
McLachlan, who was then chairman of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, after the committee had reviewed the position, made the following statement on behalf of the committee : - 
The volume and the complexity of regulations referred to the committee are such that, under the principles outlined, it is impossible, without further skilled assistance, to give adequate consideration to the regulations. The committee has communicated with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator MeLeay),  with a view to some move being adopted which will facilitate the work of the committee, and he has indicated that he will have to have a Cabinet decision in regard to the proposal submitted by the committee. Meanwhile, the committee thought it desirable that the Senate should be apprised of the position. 
The following paragraph appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 2nd February of this year: - 
More frequent meetings of the Commonwealth Parliament to control the possibility of abuses under the National Security Act - due to the great powers necessarily conferred upon individuals by regulations, were urged by the Minister for' the Army  (Mr. Spender)  yesterday. ... As matters now stand,  Mr. Spender  said, a Minister by merely signing a document, conferred on public servants powers which directly affected every individual throughout the Commonwealth. With the many duties which Ministers had  110V  to perform, it was absolutely impossible for any Minister closely to scrutinize every draft, regulation placed before him for signature. Hence it was possible and very probable that too great powers were given to some individuals, or that the regulations were not administered as was intended. Abuses under the regulations could best bc obviated by constructive criticism. 
To prevent abuses of National Security Regulations by executives,  Mr. Spender  went on, it was essential that the Commonwealth Parliament should meet more frequently than it did. The British Parliament met frequently even in the midst of air raids. The meeting of Parliament would give the representatives of the people the right to criticize the huge issue of regulations that was proceeding from week to week and from month to month. 
I bring this subject before the Senate in the hope that something will be done in the direction which I have mentioned, and which has been indicated by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender).  The question, therefore, is not whether legal assistance should or should not be provided but rather whether that assistance should come from inside or outside the Public Service. The Government considers that assistance from inside the Public Service will suffice, and it has' recently offered the services of an officer of the AttorneyGeneral's Department for this purpose. That, I consider, is an entirely unsatisfactory solution of the problem because an officer employed in the Commonwealth Public Service is not as free to express opinions and to criticize the actions of the Government in the matter of delegated legislation as is a person from outside the Service and independent of the Government. Should a person inside the Service do so he would place himself in an invidious position. One might visualize what would happen if, instead of the Auditor-General scrutinizing and criticizing public accounts, an officer of the Commonwealth Treasury were charged with this responsibility. Such a position would become intolerable for the officer concerned. A similar position would arise if the offer of the Government to provide legal assistance for the committee from inside the Service were adopted. 
The second suggestion is that provision should be made for funds to meet the travelling expenses of members of the committee. Although members are empowered to meet together as a committee during the parliamentary recess, to do so would mean that they would have to make long -journeys at their own expense. No doubt this is one reason why meetings of the committee have so far been confined to parliamentary sessions. Provision is already made  on the  Estimates for similar expenses to members of select committees. If the Senate desires that the committee should peruse the regulations to which I have referred in my motion, then the committee should be supplied with the proper facilities to enable it to perform its task thoroughly. As there is no similar committee appointed by the House of Representatives the responsibility rests on the Senate to see that the people of Australia are provided with efficient instruments whereby a systematic check can be made on the delegated legislation of the Commonwealth Executive. At the last meeting of the committee, which was held on the 13th March, the situation which I have described was again discussed. I stated on behalf of my colleagues and myself that unless the committee was prepared to submit the whole matter to the Senate for its consideration, we would do it ourselves. The committee was not prepared to submit the question to the Senate, which was the opposite of the attitude adopted when  Senator A.  J. McLachlan was  chairman  of the committee. At the meeting held on the 33th March, no fewer than 543 items of delegated war legislation and 60 statutory rules made under miscellaneous acts of Parliament  were passed en Hoc  by the committee. Not one of those items or rules was read or discussed, and in its collective capacity the committee did not consider any of them. 
 I listened with interest to  Senator Cameron's  speech. Having had experience on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, I realize that the committee has a lot of work to do, particularly if it does its job thoroughly. I remind the honorable senator, however, that we are at war and that, the National Security Act having been passed and the powers of the Executive widened, many more regulations are made than would be made in peace-time. I do not propose to speak at any length on this matter, because important measures await our consideration, but I shall briefly reply to the questions asked by  Senator Cameron. His  first question was whether the Senate desired the committee to continue. I should say that it does, because the committee can do useful work.  His  second question was whether the Government would make money available for the employment of a legal adviser to the committee from outside the Public Service. That question has been asked and answered before. For various reasons the Government will not appoint a legal adviser to the committee from outside the Public Service. Any man appointed to give legal assistance to the committee would have to be a man of high standing in the legal profession, for whom we should have to pay reasonable fees. But that is not the main reason why the Government is not prepared to appoint an outside man. When the committee directed attention to the fact that regulations were being promulgated without reference to the Solicitor-General, the Attorney-General and the Leader of the Senate gave an assurance that in future all regulations would be sent to the Solicitor-General for examination in order to ensure that they were not  ultra vires. 
Yes. In addition, departments were asked when forwarding regulations to the Attorney-General's Department for scrutiny to submit a report giving the reasons why the regulations were needed. We know that lawyers differ. They are paid to differ. What would be the position if an outside legal authority were to give a legal opinion on a regulation that was in conflict with the opinion given by the Solicitor-General,  Sir George  Knowles, to whom the Government looks for its legal advice? The position would be ludicrous, and the High Court would have to decide as between the two opinions. The committee has much more important work to do than deal mainly with the legal side of regulations. We are not prepared to appoint a man from outside, but we are quite willing to give the committee the services of an officer from the department. 
The next question askedby the honorable senator was whether the Government would make funds available to meet the travelling expenses of members of the committee. I realize that there is a lot of work to be done, and I shall bring that question before Cabinet, which may be willing to do something on the lines suggested by the honorable senator. 
The honorable senator went out of his way to say that some one had suggested to him that the committee had no jurisdiction over regulations made under the National Security Act.  Senator Spicer,  by interjection, asked the honorable senator from whom he had obtained that advice. It is well known to every honorable senator that the committee has jurisdiction over all regulations. Every individual senator has the right and the power to move for the disallowance of a regulation. I suppose that we are all perturbed about the drastic nature of some of the regulations, but we are at war, and we have no time to delay with legal arguments matters that have to be attended to quickly. I repeat that the honorable senator has the right to move for the disallowance of any regulation. If hehas wrapped his regulations in red tape and has not perused them and does not know what they contain, he has fallen down on his job, not only as a member of the committee, but also as a senator. 
If the honorable senator knows the contents of the regulations and thinks that they are offensive, he has the right to move for their disallowance. 
Ministers have a tremendous amount of detailed work to do in war-time. They have to rely largely on the advice tendered to them by the Solicitor-General. The Government is prepared to accept his approval of a regulation in preference to any legal advice from outside. The only place in which to settle conflict is in the court. Although  Senator 'Cameron  had a perfect right to bring this subject before the chamber, I trust that the Senate will not take up much time in debating it. I know the worth of the work that the committee is doing, but I ask its members to realize that the position is ever so much more difficult now that we are at war than it would be in peace-time. I sincerely trust that the committee will stick to its job and do the best it can in the difficult circumstances, because if the committee functions properly, it can perform a useful work for the Commonwealth. 

 Senator CLOTHIER (Western Australia) 4.6j. -  'Senator Cameron  has raised this matter at meetings of the Regulations and Ordinance Committee. It is true that a little while ago regulations were easy to deal with, but. after Senators McLeay, Wilson and A. J. McLachlan left; the committee, regulations have come before it in dozens, and it has had no chance to deal with them.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan suggested at a. meeting of the committee that a solicitor from outside be employed. It is easy for the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  to say that the Solicitor-General has approved the regulations  which are issued and that we should therefore abide by them. What would happen to an employee of the Attorney-General's Department if he gave advice to the committee contrary to the advice that was tendered to' the Government by the Solicitor-General? He would not. dare to do so. That is why we want a man from outside.  Senator Cameron  has made no charges against any member of the committee because all members do their best, but they require assistance. In fairness to  Senator Spicer,  I must say that he is an excellent  chairman.  He knows the law from A to  Z,  but- he, like the rest of us, has had no chance to deal with the large numbers of regulations that have come before us. As a Western Australian, I live farther from the centre of operations than any other member of the committee, but I do my best to keep up with the flow of regulations. I have had no chance to do so. Regardless of cost, wc should have legal assistance from outside. No officer of the Attorney-General's Department would express an opinion contrary to that of his boss. 
.- I, as the newly-appointed  chairman  of. the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, am glad that  Senator Cameron  has raised this matter, because, at meetings of the committee, hi3 adversions  to it from time to time have impeded the work of the committee and prevented it from getting on with the real job that it has to do, namely, consider regulations as they are issued from day to day. The principal question which he submitted to the Senate is the suggestion that we should have the assistance of an outside legal adviser. 1 must confess that I am a little surprised that a legal adviser should be so popular with  Senator Cameron  and some of his colleagues, having regard to some of the comments that I have heard in this chamber. Before -we can determine that it is desirable that the committee should be assisted at present by an outside legal adviser, because of the prolific regulations with which it has to deal, it is desirable to examine the character of the problem with which the committee is now concerned. Before the war, and before the National Security Act was passed, most of the problems with which a committee of this kind would be concerned would be legal problems. They would be questions as to whether a regulation was authorized by the particular act of Parliament under which it was framed, and whether it was the kind of provision that ought to be made by regulation or whether it ought to be the subject of legislation. Those are problems in the solution of which the services of lawyers might be very useful, but most of the regulations made to-day are based on the National Security Act.- 1 doubt whether the legality of any of the- regulations made under the National Security Act could be challenged successfully. Consequently, the legal problem has been greatly reduced. 
It is not difficult in most instances at a glance, to see that regulations made under the National Security Act are valid, because practically anything is authorized under that act. There is therefore no legal problem to be decided. It seems to me that the task which this committee has to perform now is very important. That task is to examine individual regulations- as they are issued in order to ascertain whether any of them could be said to be an abuse of the very wide powers which have been conferred upon the Executive. I submit that an outside lawyer would not be of much use in the solution of that problem. 
It is a problem which concerns members of the committee who have to examine regulations for themselves. In most cases they will say, " Well, we cannot object to that", but, here and there, they may come across a regulation which they will think goes a bit too far and to which they should direct the attention of the Senate with a view to its disallowance. That is my view on the question of legal assistance as it presents itself to-day. 
I want to say another word about the method that was employed in passing a large number of regulations at the last meeting of the committee. The meetings of the committee that I have attended since I was appointed to it, have, unfortunately, been concerned in the main with the question that  Senator Cameron  has raised to-day, with the result that we have not got down to detailed consideration of the regulations. The position which presented itself at the end of the last period of the session and also at the first meeting in this period was that there was a large number of regulations which had not been considered by the committee. For the committee to have considered each of these  regulations individually would have been ridiculous, and would have impeded the future conduct of its operations. The important thing, from my point of view, and, I think, from the point of view of other members of the committee, was that we should attempt to dispose of the unwieldy collection of regulations that had accumulated since  July  of last year, and start again with a clean sheet. In preparation for dealing with that position, I personally went through every regulation which was presented to the meeting on that occasion, and other members of the committee indicated that they, too, had examined the regulations individually. I intimated that I saw no objection to the regulations proposed to be passed, and I asked whether any member of the committee objected to any of them. Apart from indicating a general objection to the procedure being followed,  Senator Cameron  was unable to indicate any individual regulation to which he objected. 
My recollection is that the committee did not deal with regulation 5S on that occasion. The result was that, in the view of the committee, there was no reason for it to refer back to the Senate any of the regulations that were passed on that occasion. The Senate can feel perfectly satisfied that those members of the committee who took their duty seriously had gone through each of the regulations before attending the meeting of the committee, and I suggest that, in many circumstances, that is the practical way of approach to this problem. Members of the committee receive these regulations by post almost daily. If we make it our business to do so, we can deal with them almost daily as they come in, and either indicate a query regarding a particular regulation or show in some way that we see no objection to it. Then, when a meeting of the committee is held, it will be possible for it, not to deal with every regulation individually, as dozens of them are merely formal alterations of existing provisions, but to pick out the particular regulations to which members consider there may be some objection, and examine them in detail with a view to deciding whether they should be referred to the Senate. If this task were approached in that way, it would be possible for the committee to function perfectly satisfactorily, and to see that in the framing of regulations there is no abuse by the Executive of the very great powers conferred upon it. 
 -Senator Cameron  is to be congratulated upon having drawn attention to the position that has arisen in connexion with the work of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. To the Senate, and to this committee in particular, has been delegated the power to examine all regulations promulgated from time to time 'by the Government under the provisions of the National Security Act and of other acts. When, owing to the absence of  Senator Wilson,  I acted as  chairman  of the committee, I was under the impression that an undue burden was cast on myself and- on individual members of the committee.  Lt  is true, as  Senator Spicer  has pointed out, that a number of the regulations that come under the notice of the committee are described by lawyers as " chicken f ee( ", but, when I undertook this work, I found that the multiplicity of the regulations made it necessary for me to work at my hotel on three nights until midnight or 1 a.m., so that I could give to the committee certain assurances regarding the regulations. Surely that is not what is expected of the  chairman  or of the members of this committee. 
My friend,  Senator Spicer,  seems to have overlooked the fact that there is another side to this matter apart from the question of whether a regulation is  ultra vires  the act under which it has been promulgated. The Minister himself gave us a lucid account in November, 1938, of the functions of this committee. He said that it must decide whether all of the regulations are in accordance with the statutes under which they have been promulgated. It must also see that they do not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties, and that they do not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent on administrative, and not upon judicial, decisions. The liberty of the subject must be carefully safeguarded, and in this matter the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is the watch-dog for both branches of the legislature. Notwithstanding what the Minister has said, I claim that the committee should receive adequate assistance in its work. During the time when I was the temporary  chairman  of the committee, I felt that it was impossible to ask the staff at present employed in helping the committee to do the necessary spade work. I thought that it was unfair to ask any legal officer under the control of the AttorneyGeneral's Department to express an opinion regarding a regulation which had been passed by the Solicitor-General himself, nor do I think that a junior officer in the department should be asked to express an opinion whether a regulation violated certain (principles. We could not ask the administrative officer who is secretary of this committee to do this work, because he is already overburdened. I submit that, although the present  chairman  of the committee is energetic and capable, and well able to watch the matter from the legal side, the committee is entitled to the assistance to which I have referred. The objections to some of the regulations and to subversive action which have been resounding through the press in the capital cities during the last few weeks, have come, not from this committee, but from members of the House of Representatives. I think that the committee should have expressed itself on this matter one way or the other. Surely the proper body to bring it under the notice of this Parliament was the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
That points to the necessity more than ever for the appointment of some officer to help the  chairman  and the other members of the committee to speed up its work. I had to wade through hundreds of regulations before the speed of the work' reached the tempo that has been attained to-day. One day we have a regulation issued under the National Security Act, and the following day we have a regulation amending a regulation passed the previous day. I suggest the appointment of an outside legal assistant, skilled in the matter of the preservation of the liberty of the subject and the guarding of civil liberties, which are the very things for which our nation is fighting to-day. Then we should feel that we had a certain degree of security against the improper exercise by the Executive of its very wide powers. If the Government is not prepared to make a legal assistant available to the committee, 
I suggest that provision be made for the committee to meet in Sydney or in Melbourne, when Parliament is in recess, in order to prevent heavy accumulation of regulations when the committee meets in Canberra. If the (Government is not prepared to assist the committee in this matter, the Senate should, perhaps, insist on its right to have the work done thoroughly. In other parts of the world certain parliamentary committees do work of great value to the body politic as a whole. I again appeal to the Minister to render aid to the committee along the lines requested. 
As  Senator Cameron  has quoted some remarks of mine in support of his contention, I say quite frankly that I cannot see any reason for altering the opinion which I expressed on that occasion. I shall not take up the time of the committee by traversing the ground which has' just been covered by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan. I agree with a good deal of what the honorable senator said. It is considerate of  Senator Spicer,  as a legal man, to devote the enormous amount of time which he has already given, and will give in. the future, to his work as  chairman  of this committee. I served on the committee when the present honorable member for Wakefield  (Mr. Duncan-Hughes)  was its  chairman,  and the work which we did in that capacity, at a time when we were not at war, was colossal. 
Yes; and whilst the war lasts the Government will be issuing sheaves of regulations. If the Government can see its way clear to afford the assistance to the committee requested in the motion, it seems to me that the proper course to follow would not be merely, as  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has suggested, for the  chairman  to consult an assisting legal officer at will, but for all regulations to be referred as a matter of course to that officer who should be obliged to report to the  chairman  of the committee. ' It would then become the responsibility of the  chairman  to deal further with the regulations. In that way all matters of this kind would be brought. under the notice of the committee, and a great deal of time and labour would be saved. It is not fair that  Senator Spicer,  simply because he is a legal man, should be asked to burn the candle at both ends in attending to his work as  chairman  of the committee. The time will come when the  chairman  will not be a legal man ; and this job is almost an impossibility for a layman. Undoubtedly, the  chairman  of the committee needs legal assistance, because anomalies are bound to crop up in respect of regulations. At the same time it is hard, as  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has pointed out, to place upon an officer of the Attorney-General's Department the onus of overruling the decisions of the Solicitor-General, or some other officer in that department senior to himself. The circumstances of war alters the position a good deal. I support the suggestion that the committee should be enabled to avoid rushing its sittings. When I was a member of it my experience was that so soon as I arrived in Canberra I found a notice in the clubroom informing me of a sitting of the committee, and I never seemed to have sufficient time to attend to my other work. It was a whole-time job. Therefore, arrangements should be made to enable the committee to sit in the capital cities, when the Parliament is not in session, at times convenient to its members. 
.  - I am not a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. However, with every other member of the Parliament I receive copies of regulations as they are issued. If a proposal that a committee of members of both Houses should be appointed to examine regulations is made sincerely, it must be intended that that committee should be enabled to do its job properly. No member of this Parliament will admit that such a committee can work effectively if it be able to sit only for one or two hours on a day when Parliament is in session. In such circumstances it could not do justice to itself. This committee is most important. It should be afforded every facility to meet in Canberra when Parliament is in recess, and the services of an experienced legal adviser should be' made available to it. The Minister should bring before the Government the  advisability of providing travelling allowances to members. It is essential that all members of the committee individually should be given every opportunity to examine these regulations. It should not be accepted on the mere word of the  chairman  that everything is in order. I have heard much discussion in the House of Representatives regarding regulations and, consequently, I do not believe that everything is in order in respect of them. A committee of this kind is quite competent to deal with regulations. However, I am not so foolish as to believe that it could go thoroughly into every regulation if it be obliged to hold its meetings on a day when Parliament is sitting. I trust, therefore, that the matter will also be raised in the House of Representatives with the object of ensuring that the committee will function as it will be expected to function; otherwise, it will develop into a farce. 
Honorable senators will recall the circumstances in which this committee was set up. Many honorable senators were of opinion that the Executive was disposed, for reasons of convenience supported by the attitude of heads of departments, to legislate by regulation instead of by act of Parliament. Honorable senators will also recall that when  Sir Hal  Colebatch., as a member of this chamber, brought the matter forward he quoted a warning by the author, of  The New Despotism,  the late Chief Justice of Great Britain, against the growing tendency in Great Britain to legislate by regulation. Subsequently, a committee was appointed to inquire into the position, and it recommended the appointment of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Speaking generally, it will be admitted that this committee has done its work ably. Originally, the main question which occupied its attention was whether regulations issued from time to time were in conformity with the respective acts under which they were promulgated. No difficulty was experienced on that point; but following the passage of the National Security Act a real difficulty arose. At, that time I raised the question at a meeting of the committee as to whether or not the practice of the 
Executive to legislate by regulation was not accepted by the Parliament itself. Under the National 'Security Act the Government, was empowered to issue regulations in respect of, not a particular act, but anything and everything. Parliament, with its eyes open, gave that power to the Government, knowing quite well that the Government would have to be' guided by circumstances as they arose. For all practical purposes that meant that the Government was empowered to legislate by regulation rather than by act of Parliament. I pointed out to the committee that no limitation whatever was placed upon the Government in that respect, and that any other act of Parliament, or any other regulation, could be over-ridden by a regulation promulgated under the National Security Act. Insofar as no such regulation could be considered  ultra vires  any legislation, I concluded that it was a waste of time for the committee to review regulations issued under that legislation. I urged that it was a matter for each individual member of the Parliament to take the initiative in challenging any particular regulation if he thought that it interfered unduly with the liberty of the subject. That is not the responsibility of any committee; it is the responsibility of individual members of Parliament. I emphasized that the responsibility of the committee was mainly to challenge a regulation only on the ground that its subjectmatter bc the subject not of a regulation but of legislative enactment. Parliament cannot rely upon this committee to say whether any regulation interferes with the rights or liberty of the subject; that is the concern of individual members of Parliament. Individual members may differ as to whether .a regulation interferes unduly with the liberty of the subject. I still maintain that the committee should review regulations issued from time to time, but only with the object of curtailing the tendency on the part of the Executive to legislate by regulation on matters which should be the subject of legislative enactment. In view of the provisions of the National Securitiy Act, the committee should not be asked to challenge a regulation simply on the ground that it is not in conformity with the act under which it is proclaimed. 
No. The question has been raised as to whether the committee should have legal assistance. My opinion is that a lawyer would not be in a position to advise the committee whether interference with the liberty of the subject was or was not involved. That is purely a matter for the individual. Honorable senators must realize that if the committee is to meet only when Parliament is in session, it cannot possibly cope with all the work that it is expected to do. Private members have to attend party meetings and deal with correspondence, and the duties of the committee occupy considerable time. It is idle to say that we have not agreed to all regulations framed under the National Security Act. What is there to disagree with unless it is ou questions of policy? Is policy to be decided by individual members of the committee? It was never intended that an individual should determine whether a regulation interfered with the liberty of the subject. 
I would prefer not to deal with them, because I do not think that the committee could agree unanimously whether a particular regulation interfered with the liberty of the subject. In the matter of regulations framed under ordinary legislation, the committee can readily draw the attention of the Senate to anything which it considers may not be in conformity with the act under which it is framed or it can recommend that a certain matter should be the subject of legislation. 

 . - in reply - The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  objected to the services of a legal man being paid for by the Government, but in other instances the Government has obtained outside assistance, and no objection has been raised. Because of war exigencies, the Government has found that the work which it has to do is much greater than usual, and outside assistance has been sought and paid for. That is exactly what I am suggesting. I cannot understand the attitude of the Minister in refusing to recommend payment for the assistance which I ask, and, at the same time, raising no objection to paying for outside assistance required by the Government in many other directions. I was surprised to hear him say that there was more important business to consider than the legal aspect of regulations. Personally, I think it is the legal aspect that is one of the things that really matters. A regulation is issued, and we are asked to consider whether it is in conformity with the provisions of the act under which it is formed. Surely that is a legal matter. 
It is what I understood him to say. The Minister said that honorable senators have the right to challenge regulations. That is true, but, in the circumstances, it is impossible to do so. As the honorable gentleman will remember., honorable senators in opposition challenged regulation 128, and the matter was fully debated in this chamber. The same regulation was also challenged in the House of Representatives. Quite a number of regulations have been under our consideration, but we have refrained from moving motions for their disallowance in order to see if it were possible to have the regulations modified. For instance, strong objection has been taken to regulation 42a, but we have not yet moved for its disallowance. We may do so at a later date. I mention that matter to show that we are doing all we can to meet the Government in this respect. 
It has not yet been dealt with by the committee. 
Regulation 69 is former regulation 42a in an amended form.  Senator Spicer  suggested that I had impeded the work of the committee. 
That is a distinction without a difference. I raised the question and, therefore, I think that my construction of the honorable senator's remark is quite correct. If the honorable senator believes that the committee is not acting as it should, it is his duty to say so. The honorable senator also said, in effect, that in my estimation legal men had apparently become popular. It is not a question of popularity; it is one of responsibility. 
Regardless of how our opinions differ in some respects, we must admit that a legal man is better qualified than is a layman to deal with these problems. We need an outside person who will accept the responsibility on behalf of the committee. We could confer with him on whatever regulations we considered required clarification. 
That is so. I suggest that if the opportunity were given to members of the committee to deal with the regulations as they should be dealt with, then, as has been suggested by greater authorities than myself, members of the committee would become expert in these matters, and would not have to call upon the assistance of a legal man to any great degree. If a regulation be issued under the National Security Act, and members of the committee think that the Government has exceeded its powers, as was done in the case of the regulation which fixed wages, we could direct attention of the Senate to the matter. I disagree with  Senator Herbert  Hays when he says that, in effect, we should not deal with the regulations framed under the National Security Act.  Senator Spicer  said that an outside legal man would not be qualified, but, in my opinion, such a person would be just as qualified as any legal man in Parliament. If an opinion were expressed on certain regulations by an outside member of the legal profession, it would be accepted in preference to the opinion of a man who wasa member of one of the political parties in this chamber. 
It is said that outsiders know more of the political game than do those who are closely associated with it. I know quite a number of legal men outside of Parliament who consider themselves more qualified, from the political point of view, to deal with matters, than their learned friends within Parliament. 
Regulations must be in accordance with the statute under which they are made; 
They should not trespass unduly on personal rights and liberties; 
They should not unduly make the rights and liberties of citizens dependent upon administrative rather than upon judicial decisions and 
They should be concerned with adminis trative detail and should not amount to substantive legislation, which is more properly a matter of parliamentary enactment. 
The regulations are discussed at great length by the unionists, the trades hall councils and others in the light of those principles, a copy of which I have  supplied to them. They are also published in newspapers supporting Labour principles. I trust that the Government will see fit to try to meet the requests that have been made on behalf of the committee. I can assure the Minister that, so far as I am capable of judging, each member of the committee wants to do his job in the way that the Government expects him to do it. If the Government will do as I suggest we should not have the complaints concerning . regulations which we have had. 
Motion -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
 The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer: - 
The position of an officer who is refused reinstatement in his employment by the employer by whom he was employed at the date upon which he volunteered for war service or received a notice requiring him to perform war service (as the case may be) is safeguarded by National Security  (Reinstatement  in Civil Employment) Regulations. As far as the military positions of these officers are concerned, no undertaking as to their reappointment can be given as they are not called up for any specific period, but only during such time as the need for their services exists. 
asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
In order to do everything possible to extend the defences of Western Australia, and to reduce the dependence of that State on the eastern States for supplies, and having regard to Western Australia's proximity to Singapore for the supply of munitions, will the Government take steps to establish war industries in Western Australia and make provision in that State for extensive training of skilled artisans ? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows : - 
The Government is at present engaged  in  a survey of the possibilities and technical difficulties in connexion with the establishment of additional defence activity in Western Australia. Munitions orders have already been placed in that State where a technical training scheme is in operation. As additional equipment becomes available the scheme will be capable of extension. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The hill itself is of a nature not requiring a lengthy explanation. It provides for certain alterations of the definition of " Australian soldier " contained in section 4 of the War Service Homes Act 1918- 1937. Its purpose is to include within that definition, members of the naval, military or air forces of the Commonwealth of Australia who, during the war which commenced in September, 1939, were enlisted or appointed for active service outside Australia or on a ship of war, and also to include persons who were members of the forces of the Bang's dominions other than the Commonwealth, and who, prior to their enlistment or engagement for active service, resided in Australia. The measure proposes the inclusion within the scope of eligibility to participate in the benefits of the act persons who, during the continuance of the present war, were employed under agreement as master, officer or seamen, or under indenture as. apprentices in sea-going services on any ships engaged in trading between a port of a State or territory of the Commonwealth, and any other port outside Australia and who, during such employment, were domiciled in Australia. The principal act, as amended by Act No. 35 of 1920, included, as eligible, members of the mercantile marine employed during the war of 1914-1918 who were domiciled in Australia and recipients of either the Australian mercantile marine war zone badge or the British mercantile marine medal. 
The hazards and dangers of the  present  war are no less "than those which confronted officers and men of the sea-going services of the last war and the extension of the privileges of the scheme will commend itself to all who have some appreciation of the splendid services being rendered to the Empire by the mercantile marine. The amendments to section 4 also bring within the act certain dependants of the persons mentioned, similarly as the principal act includes dependants of members of the 1914-1918 forces. The act as it is now constituted covers only persons who were enlisted or engaged for active service and certain other denned service abroad during the war of 1914- 1918 and it is considered proper that the facilities provided by the principal act in connexion with assistance to acquire homes should be extended to those who in a like manner serve their King and country during the present war. There is no doubt that there will bo a number of the members of the forces who, upon their return to Australia,, will be desirous of marrying and setting up homes of their own, whilst others who are already married will also desire to acquire a home under the scheme. 
The measure now before the Senate is practical and forms part of tho broader field of repatriation. It is of national importance because it will encourage the assumption of family responsibilities on the part of some of Australia's finest manhood, and, where the returned sailor, soldier or airman is already married, provide facilities to secure a home on easy terms for proper rehabilitation to the normal of peacetime life. The principal act was not introduced until December, 1918, after the conclusion of the war of 1914-1918, but it is considered that wherever possible matters which come within the category of post-war reconstruction should be initiated during the currency of the present war in order to lessen congestion when a demobilization of the Forces begins. There is evidence of a shortage in cottage homes throughout the Commonwealth, and whilst this, it is anticipated, will not become as acute as it was in 1918, the existing position warrants the proposed amendment in order to permit applications made by members of the Forces returning from active service overseas being accepted and dealt with gradually in their order of lodgement. 
The War Service Homes Commissioner. There may, of necessity, be limited financial resources available for loans applied for under this act - due to the need for war expenditure in other directions - and loans will be subject to the funds which Parliament will be able to appropriate for the purpose. It is interesting to recall that during the war of 1914-1918 there were approximately 416,000 enlistments and to the 30th June, 1940, the total homes provided under the war service homes scheme was 37,385. The number of homes still subject to the act at the same date was 25,851. Although no forecast can he made at the present stage as to the number of enlistments which it will be necessary to accept for active service overseas during the present war, it is not anticipated that the percentage of eligible persons applying for loans will be in excess of the percentage under the principal act. That percentage works out at nine. Generally, the measure is of a machinery nature for the purpose of enabling the War Service Homes Commission to extend to members on active service in the present war benefits equal to those which were available in the war of 1914-1918. 1 can assure honorable senators that under the act that has been operating to date, a most useful and valuable service has been rendered to a large group of persons whose services to the nation called for the, fullest possible recognition. I consider it an especial privilege to submit and commend this measure to honorable senators, and I trust that the Senate will, without delay, pass it through all stages. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
The Opposition will not oppose the passage of this bill. We do not like this method of financing the child endowment scheme and we accept no responsibility for it. It is the Government's job. It is bringing down the bills. We want child endowment and we shall proceed as quickly as possible  to  allow this bill to become law. 
Like all honorable senators I am in favour of a child endowment scheme, but the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  advanced few, if any, arguments in favour of the method proposed in this bill to raise the money with which to pay the endowment. The' Assistant Minister dealt at length with Australia's receding birth rate, which we all deplore, but none of us can foresee what real effect child endowment will have on the birth rate. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - Strictly speaking this is not a bill dealing with child endowment - it is a bill which  imposes a tax - but as the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  in moving the second reading made passing reference to child endowment it would be unfair, indeed impracticable to debate this bill without making passing references to that subject. I rule that on this bill a general debate on child endowment cannot be permitted. No honorable senator will suffer injustice in that respect, because the Child Endowment Bill will shortly be before the Senate. At the same time, I exercise leniency towards any honorable senator who wishes to make a passing reference to child endowment, because the purpose of the proposed tax is well known. 
Until such time after the scheme is in operation, the effect that child endowment will have on the birth rate must be left to conjecture. What I am concerned about now is the absence of any sound reason why a pay-roll tax should be imposed in order to raise the money necessary to pay for child endowment. 
I join issue with the Government on that point. My main concern is what this tax will cost industries which have no means of passing it on. The major industry of Australia, the pastoral industry, will be severely handicapped because it has no means of passing on the tax. Its product is acquired under the wool acquisition scheme. The gold-mining industry, another industry of great importance, is in a similar position because it has no voice in fixing the value of its productGold has to be marketed according to prices fixed by the Government for fine gold. If there is one industry in Australia which should be encouraged to-day it is the gold-mining industry, because it largely provides the means to create the fund, particularly in the United States of America, which is so necessary for the purchase of war equipment. In Western Australia the gold-mining industry employs about 15,000 men and with the tax at2½ per cent. it will have to contribute about £160,000 per annum to the child endowment fund. That amount is in addition to the war gold tax which costs the industry in Western Australia more than £1,000,000 per annum. This proposed tax will affect the gold-mining industry. There are other primary industries, circumscribed in the marketing of their products, which cannot pass on the tax. Statements that employers will recoup themselves for the tax in increased prices for their products are inapplicable to the important indus tries I have mentioned. I should have preferred that the money be raised by the Treasury. 
By taxation which is borne by every one in the Commonwealth and not only by certain employers whose pay-roll exceeds £20 a week. We all know the argument about many wealthy professional men who do not pay wages, and there are one hundred and one reasons why this pay-roll tax should not be imposed. I should have liked the Assistant Minister, instead of giving us a dissertation on the birth-rate, to give some clear reasons why this tax is the only way in which to raise £9,000,000 of the estimated cost of £13,000,000 that will be involved in paying child endowment. Child endowment is a social service, necessary to Australia, which I have advocated for many years, but the cost should be borne by all the people, not by employers only, and especially by those who cannot pass it on. The iron and steel, coal, and other similar industries can bear this impost and pass it on, but the primary industries cannot do so. The equitable way in which to raise this money would bethe way in which the Commonwealth Treasury now finds the money with which to pay for other social services such as invalid and old-age pensions and war and service pensions, which I am glad some of the people of Australia enjoy. Child endowment is no less necessary than are those social services, but for the reasons stated I shall oppose thisbill. 
I commend the Government upon the introduction of this bill, which, I think, is long overdue. I point out to  Senator Allan  MacDonald that the Government is now expending its revenue at a high rate for war services, which are increasing every week, and within six or twelve months it may be necessary to double the amount now being expended for war purposes. The gap between revenue and expenditure is gradually increasing, and we must take every care that it is not increased to a greater extent than war services render necessary. Child endowment is essentially a social service, and one which will remain, I hope, for all time. Therefore, it should be placed upon a sound financial basis, and, in my opinion, the Government is taking a wise step in asking that the financial basis of the scheme be made sound from the outset. To obtain from Consolidated Revenue  £13,000,000,  the amount required for the proposed scheme, would mean an increase of approximately  23  per cent, in the income tax or exploring the lower range of incomes to provide the revenue. Under present conditions the method adopted by the Government to raise a portion of this money by a payroll tax until the heavy burdens imposed by the war are considerably lightened is sound. A pay-roll tax of  2$  per cent, will admittedly cause a small increase of the cost of living, and it will fall as a burden on industries which cannot pass on the cost of the tax; but any Government, in introducing a social service of this kind, must regard the matter from a broad point of view, and ascertain who are the persons in the community to whom such a. tax would be least detrimental. I maintain that that is what has been done by the Government in this instance, and that in exempting pay-rolls not exceeding  £20  a week, proper assistance will be afforded to a large number of small farmers, individual shopkeepers and one-man businesses in which the owners themselves may not be earning the basic wage. In the pastoral industry in Queensland, the exemption up to  £20  a week permits of the employment of three men and a boy without the employer being subject to the tax. Many of the large pastoral companies which pay more than  £20  a week in wages will no doubt be able to bear the slight increase of their costs which this tax would involve. The bill recognizes the same humane principle in regard to those who will supply the money for this social service as to those who will benefit from it. 
Like the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I accept no responsibility for the way the Government proposes to raise the money to finance the child endowment scheme, but I entirely disagree with the method proposed by the Government. This is the greatest piece of social legislation ever introduced in Australia in the Commonwealth sphere, and I maintain that the money required for the scheme could he raised by the use of the national credit through the Commonwealth Bank. Honorable senators opposite may laugh at my suggestion, as they have frequently done in the past, but I repeat that the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems, which was presided over by a Supreme Court judge, declared that the Commonwealth Bank could issue interest-free money to the Government. I suggest that the Government should avail itself of national credit in order to finance this scheme. 
.- I agree with the principle of child endowment, but disagree with the proposed pay-roll tax. The money for this social service should be obtained from Consolidated Revenue; I regret that there will be no contribution from persons earning high professional incomes and from those whose income is derived from rents and dividends. Many letters have reached me condemning the proposed method of financing the scheme. One from the Retail Grocers' Association reads - 
At ji, meeting of retail grocers representing every State, held in Melbourne on 1st April, the following resolution was passed unanimously : - "Whilst approving of the principle of child endowment this federation representing the whole of the grocers in every State of the Commonwealth, emphatically protests against the collection of the largest portion of the sum requested by a. pay-roll tax on employment, as many individuals and firms with large net incomes would be exempt, and that others often with smaller net incomes would be liable for the tax. Consequently it is considered that the tax is inequitable and undemocratic, and that, in the opinion of this federation, the only equitable method t'finance child endowment is from general revenue." 
The primary producer, too, is very much concerned about this proposal. Captain? of industry and large businesses affected by the 'proposed pay-roll tax will pass on the amount of the tax, and, not only will the cost of living to the whole community mount up, but production costs to the man on the land will increase. The price of farming implements, wire netting, fencing wire, &amp;c, purchased each year will be higher. The primary producer cannot pass on his costs of production. When the war is brought to a triumphant conclusion, Australia will have to live largely by what it can sell overseas of its primary and secondary products. When the primary producer has to compete in the markets of the world, this passed-on pay-roll tax will make him poorer than he is to-day. An all-round tax equitably distributed throughout the whole community would give to the primary producer a chance to make both ends meet. 
 I support the bill because it provides for the raising of a considerable sum of money in order to make provision for a very necessary and long overdue social service. I do not like the method by which the requisite revenue is to be raised, but, in the absence of any suggestion as to a better method, I am quite prepared to support the bill. No opponent of this scheme, either in this chamber or in the House of Representatives, has been able to suggest a better method than that selected by the Government. I am somewhat astonished at the attitude of the Opposition to this bill. It says, in effect, that it favours a child endowment scheme, but that the provision of the necessary money to finance it is entirely the responsibility of the Government. The Opposition is prepared to accept whatever method the Government suggests, whether it be good or bad. That a virile Opposition should adopt such an attitude passes my comprehension. 
.- I also have been somewhat astonished at the attitude of the Opposition to this measure, in its curious attempt to escape from a responsibility which it cannot cast aside. A child endowment scheme is to be submitted to this chamber and the responsibility is placed upon the Senate, not upon the Government, of determining whether a pay-roll tax shall be imposed in order to finance the scheme. I am prepared to accept the proposal that the Government has made, and I do so after anxious consideration of all other possibilities. To those who pretend that we shall solve this problem by saying that the cost should be borne out of consolidated revenue, I say that that is no answer at all. When the Child Endowment Bill comes before us, we shall find a provision in it that the endowment shall be provided out of consolidated revenue, but the difficulty at the moment is that there is not sufficient money available from that source to meet existing charges, let alone the new charge of £13,000,000 a year which this scheme will involve. I should not be prepared to support this expenditure unless I knew the basis on which the scheme was to be financed. I do not believe that it could be financed by credit issued by the Commonwealth Bank without serious detriment to the people as a whole. So far as I am aware this is the only proposal yet made to finance the Government's scheme of child endowment. No critic of the Government's proposals has suggested any alternative. I shall support this method of financing the scheme. I am of opinion that this measure is based on sound and logical grounds. The problem of child endowment is, undoubtedly, associated with the problem of the basic wage. 
No; indeed, I quoted from the judgments of the Arbitration Court in order to show that that was so. Those judgments made it quite clear that the court found that the present basic wage was sufficient only for a family unit of three. The court said so in so many words. This problem is a social problem which, the community must face. It would be possible theoretically, at any rate, to deal with it as a wage problem. Theoretically, the total amount of wages could be distributed in differential proportions between single and married men. But that would not be practicable because employers would then employ the cheap labour of the single man to the detriment of the married man. This tax, however, is designed to bring about the same result as would be obtained by the payment of wages in differential proportions between single and married men. The Government now says to the employer, "In order to provide a satisfactory wage for a larger family unit than three, you must pay, in addition to your wages, a sum of 2^ per cent, of the amount of your present wages bill ". In other words, there will be added to the wages bill of the employer an amount sufficient to meet the needs of the family unit of more than three in a way which will overcame the social evil to which the Arbitration Court has referred. We cannot got over that difficulty by refusing to introduce child endowment. It is obvious, as I said several days ago, that if the court is obliged to solve this problem it will be forced, perhaps, to make a general increase of the basic wage which would throw the burden on industry, as will he the case with this tax, but by that means the benefit could not be directed into the pockets of the people who are most in need, namely, the larger family unit. This proposal is nothing more than a means to increase the wages of the man with a larger family unit and it ensures that the benefit shall go into his pocket rather than into the pockets of those who do not need it. I support the bill. 
Unlike the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat I am not surprised at the attitude of the Opposition towards this measure. As the result of many years experience of Labour's tactics no attitude which honorable senators opposite might adopt would surprise me. On this occasion its members are riding to orders ; and I happen to be riding in their company, because I am supporting the bill, not because I like it but for the very good reason that we have no alternative but to support it. The position is that the Government has chosen to embark in company with the Opposition upon this scheme of child endowment - a craft which it will find is not wholly fitted for the stormy constitutional seas it will have to encounter. However, that is the Government's problem. All parties have expressed their intention not to oppose, during the period of the war, the financial proposals of the Government.- This measure is designed to finance the scheme of child endowment which will be the subject of a later bill. The Government has by legerdemain, or some other means, induced the Opposition to support its proposals ; and the Opposition at the moment is dumb almost to a man. On this occasion the vociferous eloquence of the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  is absent. He rose in his place very humbly, and bowed his support to the measure; and the curtain will be rung down upon a scene of peace, although we are now attempting to do something which this Parliament has found itself quite incapable of doing for the last forty years. Through an amalgamation between the Government and the Opposition we are going to bring about the Elysium. I hesitate to think of what will happen should those who now anticipate benefits from the scheme ultimately be deceived. This measure is only ancillary to a greater measure; it is a financial measure. But for the fact that I am familiar with the Opposition's tactics in certain circumstances, I should be amazed that it has not offered more criticism of the Government's proposal. I recall, for instance, an occasion when democracy was being violated by the passage of an improper agreement involving Australian Consolidated Industries. Because the Opposition ' refused to give to this Parliament an opportunity to review that agreement, it still remains on the statute-book in an objectionable form. Now, members of the Opposition sit so silently in their places that I can only feel suspicious. My portly friend on my right, whose beaming honesty is familiar to all of us, can hardly be suspected of being a party to anything helpful to the " Nats " and those whom he has described in language which would not bear repetition in this chamber. To-day, he remains silent. I cannot induce one honorable senator opposite to say a word on this proposal. Obviously, the whole thing is cut and dried. The Government has said that this is the only way to finance the scheme. I certainly shall not kick against its decision. I shall vote for the measure, but without prejudice to the consequences which may ensue to the Government. One feature to which I direct the attention of the Assistant Minister, whom I know to be commercially-minded, is the trend of trade in this country during the last few years. I do not know how this proposal will affect businesses with large turnovers as against smaller businesses of the kind instanced by  Senator Brand.  During recent years we have witnessed  the growth of businesses of huge dimensions, which have been able to reduce costs to .the consumer to a minimum. I venture to suggest that under this proposal the small man will be enabled to cut into those larger businesses. That is at least one criticism that can be levelled against the bill. However, for the reasons I have already stated, I support the measure. 
 vn reply  - Very little has been said in this debate which calls for a reply from me. I am not surprised that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  disclaimed any responsibility for this method of financing the child endowment scheme. The Government is quite willing to accept that responsibility ; provided it is given the credit for child endowment, it should be prepared to take all the blame in respect of financing the scheme.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan suggested that one of its weaknesses was that it might give to, say, the small grocer an advantage over- the big business man. If it does so, I thank God. The small grocer will not be subject to this tax, and, at any time, I should sooner give encouragement to him than to the big man. The objection was also raised that the primary producer would be severely hit by this proposal, because he is unable to pass on a pay-roll tax. I point out that at least 90 per cent., if not more, of the primary producers will not pay this tax. Another complaint was that the pay-roll tax would adversely affect the gold-mining industry. When we remember that before the war the price of gold was £4 an ounce, whereas it i3 now £11 an ounce, surely the addition of 6d. an ounce to the cost of recovering gold will not adversely affect that industry. I thank honorable senators generally for the manner in which they received this bill. I hope that they will allow it, together with cognate measures to be introduced later, to be passed as quickly as possible, because the Government desires to inaugurate this scheme by the 1st July. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Imposition of pay-roll tax). 
.- Will the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  state where the exemption of £1,040 per annum is provided for. This clause merely provides for the imposition of a tax at the rate of £2 10s. per cent. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Government's proposals to pay family allowances in respect of children, and to provide for the greater part of the necessary finance by means of a tax on pay-rolls, are well known to honorable senators. This bill, which is an essential part of that scheme, is to define the scope of the proposed tax on pay-rolls and to provide the machinery for its administration. At this stage it is not necessary for me to justify the imposition of such a tax. My immediate concern is to make clear to honorable senators the proposed incidence of the tax and the conditions under which it will be levied and collected. The scheme is simple. It is a tax on the wages paid, and is payable by employers. Every employer is entitled to an exemption at the rate of £20 a week. The tax is payable monthly, and employers must make monthly returns to the commissioner. Every employer liable to pay this tax must register. The tax will be levied and paid on all wages paid or payable by any employer in respect of any period occurring after the 30th June, 1941. The tax is imposed under clause 12, honorable senators will notice that that clause refers to all wages. The term "wages" is denned in sub-clause 1 of clause 3 where the term " employer " is also defined. These two definitions will make it quite clear that all classes of employers will be liable for payment, of the tax in respect of all kinds of wages. It will be noticed that wages paid in respect of domestic service are not excepted from the general liability. As no distinction is ' made between the  different  kinds of wages, for the purpose of this legislation, it will be necessary for employers to add domestic wages, for instance, to business wages. The Government, however, proposes that the burden of the tax shall fall where it can be most easily borne, and, as I have said, has made provision in clause 14 foi1 a general exemption at the rate of £20 a week. This is intended to relieve the small employer from payment of the tax, and will have the effect of excluding from the taxable field, practically the whole of the pay-rolls for domestic service. I may state ' that if the exemption were not allowed to all employers, pay-rolls just above the exempted amount would be placed at a very serious disadvantage as compared with pay-rolls just below it. A few pounds would make all the difference between paying a considerable amount of tax and paying none at all. As it is, the tax on a pay-roll just above the exempted amount will be extremely light. The small employer is still further protected by the provisions of clause 16. Obviously, the pay-roll of any given employer is likely to fluctuate during the year. Sometimes it will be more than £20, and sometimes it will be less. Whenever it is more than £20 he will be liable to pay the tax. It may happen, therefore, in a good many instances that, at the end of the year, the employer will be found to have paid some tax although his pay-roll for the year was, on the average, less than £20 a week. As it is not intended that such pay-rolls shall feel the weight of the tax, provision has been made for the commissioner to refund or rebate the tax where, at the end of the financial year, it is found that the total of wages paid by an employer was £1,040 a year or less. It is desirable, however, that employers for part of a year only, should not gain an advantage under that provision over those who have been employers during the whole of the year. The amount- of £1,040 will therefore be reduced in the case  of  those who are employers for part of the year only. The amount allowable will vary accord-: ing to the time during which wages have been paid. Still another class of employer has been very sympathetically provided for. Because of the nature of some trades or businesses, the wages bill so fluctuates with different periods of the year, that almost the whole of the wages for the year are paid within a very short period. It is thus possible for an employer to take over such a business, at such a time that the wages bill for the year must be paid after he has taken over, or he may relinquish the business after having paid the greater part of the wages for that year. In either case, if the employer can satisfy the commissioner that his pay-roll for the year would not have amounted to £1,040 had he been in business during the whole of the year, he will be allowed the full benefit of the exemption of £1,040. Honorable senators will agree, I think, that the measure has been devised with the utmost consideration for the taxpayer. The specifically exempted classes of employers which ar« few are specified in clause 15. The exemption granted to diplomatic, consular and other representatives of other governments, and to certain trade representatives does not extend to wages paid by them in the course of any activities not connected with their official positions. The complete exemption of religious or public benevolent institutions and public hospitals is consistent with the provisions of other taxation acts, and is in accord with the treatment of those institutions under the New South Wales Act. As I have already stated, every employer who is liable to pay the tax will be required to register as an employer for the purposes of this legislation. A similar system of registration is already in operation under the Sales Tax Acts and has substantial advantages from the administrative point of view.  Returns  will be required monthly and the tax must be paid within the time allowed for lodgment of the return. . That is to say, the taxpayer will assess his own tax as he does for sales tax, and the Commissioner will  provide the necessary check on his calculations by inspection and otherwise. Monthly returns have been adopted, not only because they make it easier for the department to collect the tax, but also because they make it easier for the employer to pay it. Registered employers will benefit also by the provisions mentioned in clause 19. Under clause 17 employers who pay or who are liable to pay wages at the rate of £20 a week must register, and, under clause 18, furnish monthly returns. The payment of wages at the rate of £20 a week, even if only for one short period in the year thus makes an employer liable for registration and the lodgment of returns so long as he continues to be an employer. However, in many cases, such an arrangement would be both irksome to the taxpayer and unprofitable to the department. It has been provided, therefore, that where the commissioner is of the opinion that no tax will be payable 'by an employer or, if paid, will be refunded when the annual adjustment is made, he may exempt the taxpayer from furnishing monthly returns. In such instances, he may require the employer to furnish an annual return  of  wages paid, which will enable him  to  satisfy himself that the exemption was properly allowable. Honorable senators will notice that the definition of " company" as used in the bill includes partnerships. Under (the bill a partnership will be an employer, and will be liable to pav tax. The provision serves two purposes : It simplifies the machinery provisions of the bill, and it ensures that a member of a partnership shall not be required to aggregate his share of the partnership pay-roll with any separate pay-roll for which he may be responsible. The provisions with which I have dealt contain the substance of the new scheme of taxation. The remaining provisions provide the machinery for administering the law and contain no departures from precedents established in other taxation measures. The department will be given all necessary powers to enable it to administer the law and the rights of the taxpayer will be preserved. The bill is an indication of the Government's determination to finance its scheme of family endowment, and of its solicitude for the taxpayers. It has been necessary for pro- pose new taxation, but under this bill the taxpayer will be treated as generously as the circumstances permit. 

 Sitting suspended from 6. IS la 8 p.m. 

 The suspension of the sitting for dinner interrupted the beginning and end of my speech. This bill is merely complementary to the one that preceded it and the Opposition has no objection to it. 
Clause 18 requires employers to make to the Commissioner of Taxation within seven days after the close of each month a return of all wages paid or payable by them in respect of that month. Representations have 'been made to me from various sources that the obligation to make monthly returns will impose a burden on industry and will increase the rising cost of carrying on industry. The simplification of returns that employers are required to make to government departments is necessary and it is suggested that in the case of the pay-roll tax returns should be made quarterly or half yearly. I suggest that the Government should give favorable consideration to my proposal. 
 I intended to raise two questions, but  Senator Cooper  has mentioned one of them. A number of transactions such as shearing contracts take place between graziers and wool companies. The relationship between these parties is entirely contractural. The grazier provides accommodation for the company's shearers and pays to the company a rate according to the class of sheep shorn. As the company employs the shearers it will probably pay  tax  on the wages paid to them, but will  tax  bc collected also on grazier's payments? In other words: I want to know whether there will be double taxation? Possibly the Assistant Minister in charge of the bill will answer my question when the bill is in committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Definitions). 
 It appears to me that no provision has been made in the bill to meet the case that I outlined on the second reading of the bill. The question is: Who is to pay the tax in a case of the kind mentioned, or will there be a double tax? I should like to learn whether there is any provision in the bill eliminating double taxation? 
 The question raised by  Senator McLachlan  regarding shearing contracts is covered by the definition of " wages ", which states -  " Wages " means any wages, salary, commission, bonuses or allowances paid or payable (whether at piece work rates or otherwise and whether paid or payable in cash or in kind) to any employee as such and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes - 
any payment made under any prescribed classes of contracts to the extent to which that payment is attributable to labour. 
If the employer pays money direct to the shearers, which includes their keep, the employer will come under theterms of the bill provided the total sum paid in wages is more than £1,040 a year. If the employer pays for the shearing through a contractor and supplies the contractor's shearers with sustenance he will have to regard sustenance as wages. The contractor will pay tax on the wages actually paid.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan need have no fear that there will be duplication of taxation. I realize that peculiar cases will arise in the operation of the measure, but I think that honorable senators can rest assured that the regulations made under the act will remove any doubt. 
Take the case where a contractor enters into a contract with a grazier to shear his sheep and bale the wool and the grazier supplies quarters for the shearers. Suppose the grazier's expenses for the year, not including shearing, are £900, but shearing costs him £500, making a total of £1,400. Would the sum of £500 be deducted from the annual pay-roll of the grazier and the tax paid on the amount by the contractor? 
 I direct attention to the provision that " wages " means - 

 Any wages, salary, commission, 'bonuses or allowances paid or payable (whether at piecework rates or otherwise and whether paid or payable in cash or in kind) to any employee as such. 
Following those words different classes of payments are set forth.  It  seems to me that the definition is sufficiently wide to cover a contractual relationship, and that in the case cited the contracting company will have to pay tax on its pay-roll because it employs shearers practically all the year round. Then the tax will be levied on the grazier because piecework is included in the definition. Although the shearing might be described as piece-work the whole relationship is contractual because the contracting company supplies the labour and materials necessary and the grazier contracts to pay for the accommodation of the shearers. All that the grazier does is to facilitate the contracting company's work. I want to know whether there is any provision in the hill for relief in a case of that kind. The regulation making power set forth in the bill does not appear to be sufficiently wide to give relief in such cases. 
 It was suggested in another debate that employers might evade payment of the pay-roll tax by employing labour at piece-work rates. The definition of wages has been drafted to prevent such evasion. In actual practice the provision relating to piece-work will apply only to a small number of persons. Only those graziers whose total pay-roll in a year exceeds £1,040 will be liable to pay the pay-roll tax. If a grazier pays £1,500 in wages in a year he will be taxed on the amount of £460. I am advised that no duplication of taxation such as  Senator A.  J. McLachlan suggests will occur. I assure him that the regulations made under the act will prevent duplication of taxation. 
 The Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  suggested that the question raised by me will affect only a small number of employers. Although he is well instructed, apparently he  does not grasp the trend of business in primary industries. I think that in Queensland most of the canecutting is done by contract. The canegrower surely will not have to pay tax on wages on which the tax has already been paid by the cutting company. Wages are defined in the bill and no regulation made under the act can amend the definition. 

 .- Senator A. J. McLachlan has apparently not studied paragraph (a) of the definition of wages. It provides that wages include - 
Any payment made under any prescribed classes of contracts to the extent to  which  that payment is attributable to labour. 
Therefore, unless a particular class of contract is prescribed the pay-roll tax will not apply to the wages paid. The safeguard is that the class of contract will have to be prescribed before the payroll tax will apply to it. Therefore there will ;be no fear of double taxation. 
Ye3, but the tax would be payable only on the amount in excess of £1,040 per annum. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 17 agreed to. 
Clause 18 (Returns). 
I understood that an undertaking was given by the Government in the House of Representatives that this clause would be perused with a viewto ascertaining the possibility of meeting requests made in that chamber and repeated in the Senate to-day by  Senator Cooper  that returns should be made quarterly instead of monthly. The clause as it now stands will be another burden on an already overburdened people. It will affect particularly primary producers, many of whom experience great difficulty iu compiling returns. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 19 to 71 agreed to. 
Schedule and Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third' time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill provides for an amendment of the Raw Cotton Bounty Act of 1940 which has become necessary because of serious disturbances in world raw cotton markets, and their effect on the incomes of producers of raw cotton in Queensland. The bill will ensure an average net return to producers in respect of the 1941 and 1942 crops of 12£d. per lb. of raw cotton after taking into account their profits from oil and cattle fodder made from cotton seed. This amount is equivalent to 4.3d. per lb. of seed cotton for cotton-growers which Parliament and the Government intended, when the Raw Cotton Bounty Act 1940 was enacted. 
The following review of changed circumstances overseas will, it is hoped, make it clear to honorable senators that immediate action is essential to protect the position of cotton-growers. For six years, the Commonwealth's policy has been to allow cotton spinners to obtain Australian or foreign raw cotton at Australian import parity, duty-free prices. In order that Australian cotton-growers should receive remunerative returns, they have been paid, through the Queensland Cotton Board as the producer of raw cotton, rates of bounty which fluctuate exactly in accordance with variations in the spot price of American middling raw cotton at Liverpool at the end of each week of the Queensland production. The present basic bounty is 4$d. per lb. on a basic Liverpool price of 6d. per lb. As the actual Liverpool price is more or less than 6d., the actual bounty is that much less or more than 4$d., with a maximum bounty of 5^-d. per lb. Until some time after the war started this system, worked to the complete satisfaction of cotton-growers and spinners in Australia because the normal relationship between the Liverpool price and cotton values in other world markets was always maintained. .For example, the Liverpool price averaged about -Jd. per lb. more than American prices. In the Raw Cotton Bounty Act of 1940 the former basic bounty was increased from 4Jd. to 4$d. per lb., the extra £d. being partly given to prevent the then slightly abnormal excess of the Liverpool price over American prices from injuring our cotton producers' returns. 
Recent announcements in the press disclose that the Liverpool Cotton Exchange will cease to exist as from the 31st March, 1941. It has been expected for some time that the Liverpool Cotton Exchange would close and this eventuality is provided for in the present act. Had the disturbance of the market, with its effect on the Liverpool price, been the only factor affecting the bounty, the closing of the Liverpool Exchange and the consequent reliance on the New York Cotton Exchange for the basis of the bounty payments would not have rendered this amendment necessary. A more serious position has, however, developed owing to extreme price-cutting by Brazil and market weaknesses arising from the record excess carry-over of 15,000,000 bales of the United States of America. This carry-over has been financed by the 
Government of the United States of America at more than present market values. 
The present price in New York is approximately 2d. per lb. sterling less than the Liverpool price, with a strong tendency to decrease. In view of the fact that the price of Brazilian cotton is approximately 20 per cent, lower than American cotton, it will form the basis for determining the Australian import parity price. Consequently the price received by the growers will be so low that their returns will not yield them a profit; hence the necessity for the provision in the bill which will ensure them a return of 12$d. per lb. of raw cotton. It will be seen that the effect of present world prices will be to reduce the net return to Queensland growers on their seed cotton below the 4.3d. per lb. expected by Parliament when the 1940 act was passed ; how much below will be dependent upon the influence of the excess American carry-over of cotton and the surplus Brazilian cotton available and its influence on an already depressed market- 
Australia's raw cotton position  is seriously weak. Our consumption is now over 70,000 bales per annum, but Queensland's crop this year is expected to be only 15,000 bales. Maintenance of the 15,000 bales production for 1941 requires immediate action to ensure the reasonable net return of 4.3d. per lb. of seed cotton. Such a. return, guaranteed in advance, will be vital if our production for 1942 is to expand greatly, as is essential for our fighting service requirements alone, should war break out in the Pacific. 
The bill will enable the Queensland Cotton Board to receive bounty for each week's production on a. basis to be determined by the Minister, as provided for in the present act. during each wenk; then, shortly after the end of the season, the Cotton Board will receive an interim payment in a lump sum, bringing the net return for all cotton as close as possible to 32-Jd. per lb. Later, when the exact figures are available, the final payment of bounty necessary to ensure a net return of 12-Jd. per lb. will be known and will be paid. 
In an attempt to reduce the possible extra bounty cost of £50,000 under this bill, the Minister proposes to arrange  that all spinners shall promptly confer with the Queensland Cotton Board with the object of buying the 1941 Queensland crop at more than present import parity prices, and thus reduce the Commonwealth's bounty liability by the total value of such increase. Unless some such agreement is made, the extra bounty cost for the anticipated 1941 crop will be approximately £50,000. 
I believe that the Senate will appreciate the seriousness of the unexpected war-time emergency which now confronts our cotton-growers, and will therefore cordially support this bill, which will relieve the situation to the satisfaction of the industry. The necessity for the measure has been brought about by circumstances over which we have no control, and I urge honorable senators to give the bill a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
This is a simple measure, and it scarcely calls for comment. The proposal is to omit from section 29b of the Crimes Act 1914-1937 which relates to false representation, the words "either verbally or in writing" and to insert in their stead the words " in any manner whatsoever ". In times like these such a provision is exceedingly wise and necessary. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I offer no objection to the passage of the bill. Its object is to simplify the administration of acts, and it also prescribes the maximum pecuniary penalties which a court may impose on a corporation where the only penalty prescribed by the act is one of imprisonment. The bill also clarifies the powers regarding the making of regulations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
This bill is somewhat similar in effect to that which the Senate has just passed, and the Opposition will not oppose it. Extensive fraud is practised in every war, and the present war is no exception in that regard. The Opposition considers that fraud should be punished when it is discovered, and, particularly, in time of war. Of course, there are different kinds of fraud, and this bill recognizes that fact.Intentional and deliberate fraud is fairly easily discoverable. Another kind of fraud is that which arises from failure of men entrusted with power in connexion with the manufacture and distribution of goods and in the provision of services to exercise proper oversight. 
Negligence is not fraud, but, if it results in fraud, it should be punishable when discovered. The Opposition does not oppose the bill, because it believes that whether fraud is deliberate, or merely arises from carelessness, it should be punished. It recognizes that there is a danger in making the provisions of the bill retrospective. An amendment was submitted in the House of Representatives in that regard, but effect was not given to it. The only difficulty that could arise in connexion withretrospectivity is that administrative power might be abused. If it is, it will be the responsibility of the Government in control of the administration of  the measure when the abuse occurs. The Opposition is so determined that fraud shall be punished, particularly when the nation is in the grip of war, that it will not quibble over the terms of this bill. 
 &lt;I  support the bill and commend the Government for having introduced it. I should like to know whether the provision relating to " any die, device, seal or stamp " applies to the recent allegations about faulty marking of boots supplied to the Defence Forces, and also to allegations with regard to the supply of bread and other materials to the Department of the Army. 
None of us condones fraud ; all that can bc done to prevent fraud should be done. However, the conditions under which the materials necessary for military purposes are produced more or less invite fraud. So long as contractors compete against one another, and prices are cut to the  bone,  and sonic gain is to be made by committing fraud, we shall always have fraud. This bill deals with effects rather than with causes. If the Government, for instance, were manufacturing its requirements of boots, clothing and other articles, the intensive competition which now takes place among contractors would disappear, and the causes of fraud would be lessened. In addition, by making this legislation retrospective we say, in effect, that what is a crime to-day was not a crime, say, two or three months, or a year. ago. That is very dangerous. All authorities that have examined the matter as closely and critically as possible, 'believe that the more severely the law deals specifically with effect, without dealing with causes, the position is not improved. 
Not  necessarily; but it involves a change of the conditions under which human beings work. The more congenial conditions are made the more favorable will be the reaction, but conditions similar to those which now govern tenders for the supply of materials to the Government, under which a good deal is to be gained by the perpetration of fraud, with a chance of escaping detection, invite fraud. If the Government were manufacturing its own requirements under conditions more or less approximating those under which it manufactures munitions, legislation of this kind would not be necessary. At any rate, this kind of legislation is dangerous, and places a weapon in the hands of people who may be tempted to abuse it. The provisions of this bill are to be made retrospective to September, 1939. No one can f oresee just how long the war will last. We should take a long view of the position and organize our means of production of military requirements under conditions that will make the perpetration of fraud practically impossible. One of the worst features of legislation of this kind is that usually the rich man who commits fraud, and can afford to brief able lawyers, has a much better chance of escaping the consequences of his crime than a poor, unfortunate individual who does not possess a penny. Our gaol population does not include many rich men who have committed fraud, or writers of lying advertisements which practically constitute fraud ; it consists of poor unfortunate victims who are not in a position to protect themselves. Very often Parliament prepares the crime, and punishes the victim. That was done in 1932, when Parliament enacted legislation which caused wide-spread poverty almost overnight. The result was that fraud and crime increased almost simultaneously, and unfortunate victims were sent to gaol in hundreds, and, possibly, in thousands. Then, when it was discovered that the policy of Parliament made a position which was already bad infinitely worse, that policy, was changed, and the number of cases of fraud and crimes of all sorts decreased. Legislation of this kind will not lessen the number of frauds, unless the Government pays particular attention to the causes of fraud, and assumes control of those industries and services which are so essential to the prosecution of our war effort. 
The retrospectivity of legislation appears in a somewhat lurid light in this measure, because it is rarely, if ever, that legislation of a criminal character is made retrospective. Section  73c of the principal act, which it is proposed to amend by clause 3 of the bill, is as follows: - 
Any contractor, purveyor or other person, and any employee of a contractor, purveyor or other person, who fraudulently supplies to the Commonwealth or any officer of the Commonwealth for use by the defence force - 
any article of food which is inferior in quality to or less in quantity than that specified in the contract, agreement or order under which it is to he supplied; or 
any material, equipment, or beast of draught or burden which is inferior to that specified in the contract, agreement or order under which it is to be supplied, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Any officer of the Commonwealth who fraudulently receives for use by the defence force any article of food, or any material, equipment, orbeast of draught or burden supplied in contravention of this section, shall be guilty of an offence. 
The essence of the offence is that the offender acted fraudulently. Under this legislation we propose to throw the burden of proof upon the accused, and that involves the alteration of a vital principle of the British criminal code. I suppose that very good reason exists for making this legislation retrospective to the 3rd September, 1939. In addition, however, section 73c of the principal act is to be amended by omitting the word " fraudulently ". That means that on any person who supplies goods to the Government which should later turn out to be inferior, or of less quantity than that specified in the contract, will rest the burden of proving his innocence. He must prove that he had no fraudulent intent and that he did not know that the articles were inferior, or of less quantity than that specified in the contract. 
But we need to have our eyes open when we agree to this amendment, because we shall thereby apply a principle which although quite common in French law, is new to British jurisprudence. As I have said, a good reason may exist for the amendment. The point I emphasize is that we are now applying the retrospectivity provision only to offences under the Defence Act. Apparently, it is because the Governmenthas found it diffi cult to prove fraud in respect of the supply of material to it, that it now proposes to adopt this new principle. However, I repeat that in agreeing to the bill we should do so with our eyes open. We should regard this amendment as an exceptional provision in order to meet particular cases. In throwing upon some people, such as employees and managers who may, perhaps, be unaware of the existence of collusion between the person delivering the goods and the person receiving them, this provision may operate with great harshness. It is pretty tough; however, we are living in tough days, and I suppose that it is necessary. 
 in reply -  I appreciate the remarks of our legal friend,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, but I assure the Senate that the Government has given the points raised by the honorable senator very serious consideration. The Government realizes the drastic nature of the provisions of the bill, but, as  Senator A.J.  McLachlan said, we are at war, and we are living in difficult times. The Government is not concerned with individuals, but merely desires to protect itself against fraudulent acts which may have been committed since the outbreak of war. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

 Sitting suspended from9.4 to 9.55 p.m. 

Before debating the bill itself, I have something to say about the second-reading speech delivered by the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie),  which I was very interested to hear. Early in the speech, the Assistant Minister said - 
It sometimes requires a jolt to draw attention to the fact  that  a reform that we all in our hearts realize is due should be immediately crystallized into legislative action. Such a jolt was administered by the Arbitration Court when it said plainly that a family unit of more than three on the basic wage was suffering hardship. 
I am surprised that it took that jolt to awaken the Government to its responsibilities to the children of this country. Without any intention of being ungracious, I remind the Assistant Minister and the Government that a decent rise of the basic wage would he a far greater jolt to the people who are called upon to pay for child endowment. That, in my opinion, explains the presence of this bill in this chamber. Either a rise of the basic wage or child endowment had to come.  The  Government has made a virtue of necessity because child endowment lets its class down' lighter than a rise of the basic wage would, have done. That does not mean that we are not glad to have this bill; we are more than glad. Another passage in the honorable senator's speech which struck me as being rather good was - 
Even if we could choose an average family unit, it would not reflect the situation of the employee throughout his working life. .lt would be too lar.gc at the beginning and end of his working life, when his domestic responsibilities would be comparatively light, and too small, when his domestic responsibilities would reach their peak. 
That was a gem. There never has been any time in the history of this or any other country when the amount paid to workers in any circumstances was too much. There never will be any possibility of that until we make a more decent approach to matters and ensure that all men, women and children in the community live, as they are entitled to live, up to the fullest possibilities of the wealth production of the country. Some day we shall have that and then we shall all live in luxury. The Government should not wrap itself up with the idea that anything ever done in the past or even now under the cover of this bill or by any other means will adequately pay the workers of this country a decent wage. 
I now proceed to address myself to the bill itself. 
The Minister further stated - 
We are desirous that the benefits promised under this scheme should be given promptly. We are proceeding with the necessary administrative preparations with a view to having the scheme in operation as from 1st July of this year. We can achieve that result if honorable  senators  assist the passage of thu necessary legislation. I nsk the Somite to give the bill it speedy passage. 
Yet this afternoon supporters of the Government expressed astonishment that the Opposition remained silent during the discussion of the preliminary measures without which this bill could not have reached the Senate. It is common knowledge that in the House of Representatives a determined attempt was made by Government supporters to block the passage of this bill. They were prepared to wreck the measureand members of the Opposition were  silent  to-day because they declined to join the wreckers. It is to the credit of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  that he could not be made amenable to the wishes of those who tried to destroy the bill. We heard half a dozen speeches from honorable senators on the Government side on the two bills which preceded this measure, and they all gave apologetic support to the scheme. They said: "We support the bill but- ". 
Had the Opposition been in power and had brought down this measure, I say without hesitation that those honorable gentlemen would not have been found supporting it. 
It is a fact which will be produced in evidence against honorable senators opposite at a later date. That is why members of the Opposition sat silent this afternoon, so that they could gauge the measure of sincerity of the support given' to this bill. I do not wish members of the Opposition to be regarded as so simple that they do not understand why honorable senators opposite favour this measure. 
Child endowment has been in operation in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe since 1796, or nearly a century and a half, yet this Government required a jolt in March, 1941, to awaken age-old opponents of every social reform to the fact that this is a long-delayed measure. 
Through the Queensland Arbitration Court, the Labour party in that State last month secured an increase of 5s. a week in the basic wage, and the rate in Queensland is now the highest in the Commonwealth. 
No, but the Commonwealth Arbitration Court is awaiting instructions from the Commonwealth Government and that is the reason why no decision has yet been declared on the basic wage claim. The first attempt to embody the principle of child endowment in the law of a State was made in New South Wales in 1919, but that bill was not proceeded with. Then came the Commonwealth Public  Service  scheme, which became operative on 1st November, 1920, when, following on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Basic Wage, child endowment at the rate of 5s. a week for each dependent child under fourteen years of age was paid to officers, with a limitation of salary plus allowance of £400 per annum. As the result of proceedings before the Public Service Arbitrator in 1923, these allowances were confirmed as a permanent part of the salary scheme, and the necessary fund to meet them was created by deducting the average value of the payment from the basic wage of all adult officers. In effect, therefore, the officers are themselves providing the fund from which the allowance is paid. The deduction was originally £11 per annum, but is now £12. The payment is now' limited to officers receiving up to £500 per annum inclusive of the allowance. In New South Wales, seven years after the first attempt was made in that State, a child allowance measure was passed. The present bill is an improvement on that embodied in the Commonwealth Public Service scheme and is also an improvement on the New South Wales scheme. 
I remind the honorable senator that no social reform was ever accomplished in this or any other country except as a result of a jolt administered to anti-Labour governments by the pressure of public opinion. The party represented by honorable senators opposite never yielded anything in the way of social reform until it was forced from them by the crowbar of public opinion. 
The first basic wage introduced in Australia provided for a man and his wife. The first award in New South Wales was £4 5s. a week for adult males - rural employees were awarded £4 4s. a week - plus 5s. a week for each dependent child. The total earnings were not to exceed the basic wage and 5s. a week for each child. Thus a worker with three children, and earning £5 a week, would not receive an endowment allowance until the arrival of the fourth child. The measure now before the Senate is an improvement on former schemes and for that the Opposition is glad. On the 28th September, 1927, a royal commission was appointed, as a result of a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers called by the Commonwealth Government in June of that year, to consider fully a national scheme of child endowment. A report was presented by that commission, and there was also a minority report, but the government of the day did nothing in regard to the matter. 
The profound ignorance of honorable senators opposite is staggering; but  Senator Spicer  has told the truth. The Labour party was in office, but it was not in power, because owing to a hostile Senate its vital measures were rejected. Among the members of the commission was  Mr. John  Curtin, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. The other members were  Mr. T.  S. O'Halloran, K.C.,  chairman, Mrs. Florence  M. Muscio, M.A., and Messrs. Ivor Evans and Stephen Mills. A minority report was submitted by  Mr. Curtin  and  Mrs. Muscio.  The reports presented by the commission were pigeonholed, and it was necessary for this Government to receive a jolt in March, 1941, in order that it might be brought up to the barrier. The Government of the day in 1927 " passed the buck " to the States. It said that the responsibility of initiating this reform rested with the Parliament of the States, and, therefore, nothing was done regarding child endowment. 
But the minority report contained no such comment. There is nothing new in the impelling motive which makes the people demand a family allowance. When I was a young man, a gentleman named Malthus acquired a considerable reputation in the older countries by advocating the limitation of families. He said that the population was increasing at such a high rate that it was impossible for wealth production to keep pace with it, and that disaster would result if parents continued having the large families that were common in those days. That doctrine received a good deal of credence, because in those days a knowledge of political economy and- economics generally was as rare as it was in the dark ages. Very few people understood anything about those subjects. But to-day w-e know that no reason exists to limit the family insofar as the wealth productivity of this, or any other country, is concerned. Nature is bountiful enough to supply for all children the good things of life. No insurmountable reason exists for poverty and malnutrition. When honorable senators opposite talk about their virtue in bringing down this belated measure, I remind them that when a Labour government, under the leadership of the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, a common working miner, decided to establish a maternity allowance, their predecessors in political economy opposed that measure. ex-Senator St. Leger, whom I knew very well, achieved unenviable notoriety because he said that Fisher's maternity allowance was a sop to profligacy. I have not forgotten his statement, although I have no doubt that most honorable senators opposite have never heard of it. It was said recently that proposals of this kind should not be made the plaything of party politics. I said then, and I now repeat, that those who believe in Labour's policy have no need to be ashamed of party politics. I am proud of Labour's policy; but I was never more proud of it than when the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher brought in that bill, At the same time, when ex-Senator St. Leger made that remark I resolved to follow him and his tribe, so far as it was possible to follow them, and to confront them with their crimes whenever I got the opportunity to do so. I am presented with such an opportunity to-night. I am glad that our opponents are now converted. We on this side are delighted to welcome such converts, because we are always glad to see political penitents coming to the footstool of the Opposition, and declaring their sins and asking for forgiveness. That is why we speeded the passage of the bills which were passed through this chamber this afternoon. I draw the attention of the Assistant Minister to a fact which I regard as most significant. The Commonwealth 'Statistician recently declared that the birth-rate in Canberra is the highest in Australia. I wonder whether honorable senators opposite know what that means? Some of us on this side have not had the advantages of the superior education enjoyed by some honorable senators opposite, but the veriest neophyte on this side knew what those figures meant immediately he saw them. They mean that wherever men are given security of employment there will always be an increase of the birth-rate. Honorable senators opposite have only awakened to the fact that this matter is so important, and their awakening is due solely to their discovery that in a few years sufficient man-power will not be available in this country to do some of the things for which we require manpower to-day. Just as employers make provision in their balance-sheets and financial arrangements for depreciation iu respect of their machines, so they must be forced to provide for the replenishment of their human machines, the family, the boys and girls coming on. 
I said that that was the responsibility of the Government. The birth-rate in Canberra is the highest in Australia. Prom that fact it is clear that the Government can accomplish something immediately it gets a jolt strong enough to awaken it to the fact that, if men are paid good wages, and women are given a decent chance in life through the payment of a proper allowance - and this allowance cannot be so described, although, in the circumstances, it is sufficient to go on with for the time being - no trouble in respect of the birthrate will be experienced. Of the 1,800,000 children in Australia under the age of sixteen years, 1,000,000 will benefit under this measure. We should like to see the benefits of the bill extended, but, at the moment, we are not asking that that be done. Our immediate concern is that this bill be placed on the statutebook, because, once that is done, it will not be long before a Labour Government will be able to mould this measure to its own desires. I shall conclude by reading an extract from a brochure which was circulated among members of Parliament during the week by a women's organization operating in New South Wales. This extract will serve as a fitting conclusion to my remarks - 
This proposal is totally inadequate to enable the poor to bring up their children. When it was proposed in the House of Representatives that endowment should be paid in respect of the first child, it was stated on behalf of the Government that such an extension of the benefits of child  endowment would involve an additional expenditure of £11,000,000. According to the Government Statistician, there are 800,000 first children in families, 300,000 of whom are only children and the remainder the first child, in families of more than one. None of those children will be eligible for benefits under this scheme. Honorable senators will not be surprised when I say that this great national social reform should be financed out of national credit. I have so often produced authorities for that statement that I shall not do so on this occasion. I feel sure that not one honorable senator opposite remains unconvinced that I have given ample evidence to prove the practicability of using the national credit for this purpose. Such a proposition, however, is always met by the protest that it will lead to inflation and other terrible evils. Let us hear what Roger Keynes, one of the leading British economists, has to say regarding the financing of schemes of this kind. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B.  Hayes). - The honorable senator will not be in order in discussing the financing of the scheme on this bill; the cognate financial measure has already been passed. 
A large portion of family expenditure is incurred on education. To-day education is very expensive despite the fact that we are supposed to have a system of free education.. The cost of books alone in a family of several children is almost prohibitive. I quote the following from an article written by  Mr. W.  H. ."Williams, a member of the Research Branch of the Department of Education of New South Wales. It must be remembered that the cost of education is nothing compared with the cost of ignorance. The children of this country must bc educated if they are to play their part in the national life of this country. Dealing with economic adjustment,  Mr. Williams  said - 
Though the problem of distributing the world's wealth in such a way as to guarantee thu economic emancipation of its people has so far battled the economists . . . 
That of course refers to the orthodox economists who are the advisers of the Commonwealth Government and of the various State governments. They are all at loggerheads because no two of them can reach the same conclusion about anything. The new economists of which I am a humble representative have already solved that problem. The quotation continues -   . . Such a distribution must  continually be  envisaged and every difficulty lying in  the  path towards  its  attainment boldly attacked. The State cannot afford for  one  moment  to  neglect  its  responsibility  at  this point. If  the  ideal  -of  an economy of abundance  is  deleted from  the  list of desirable social objectives, humanity will thereby suffer immeasurable  loss.  In  the  name of sanity and fairness there should  be  available  for all  children fit  to  benefit by them, ample facilities  for  educational progress and freedom from financial hinderance. 
The question that arises is where are we going to get the greater part of the money to finance this scheme? A previous bill provided for a pay-roll tax upon employers, but I maintain that the proceeds of the tax will not be sufficient. 
That is my own opinion after a long study of this matter. Two ways of financing the child endowment scheme have been suggested. 
Order ! The honorable senator will not be in order in proceeding along those lines. 
In 1708 Malthus published his famous essay on population, one of the grandest examples of extrapolation on record. The essay was in part designed to answer William Godwin's argument to the effect that mankind could achieve happiness through the use of reason. Malthus wanted to scotch the dangerous idea that happiness was in prospect to the mass of the people (the principle of " original sin") again. So by study of the exceedingly unreliable statistics of the time he laid down two postulates: First, that population tends to grow at a geometrical rate; second, that the food supply tends to grow at an arithmetical rate. The population of England was then 7,000,000; in a hundred years if the curve was followed it would be, he said, 112,000,000. If food was sufficient for the 7,000,000 in 1800, by 1900 the supply would expand to feed only 35,000,000 - "which would leave a population of 77,000,000 totally unprovided for." 
Malthus had many followers in England at that time. 
This fantastic hypothesis was then solemnly applied to the problem of poverty. As the population was designed to leap ahead of food supply, restrained only by pestilence, war, and famine, it followed that measures to improve the living standards of the mass of the people were futile. 
What is this Government doing to improve family life and to raise the living standard of the people? The quotation continues - " It is, undoubtedly, a most disheartening reflection that the great obstacle in the way of any extraordinary improvement in society, is of a nature that we can never hope to overcome." 
That was before the age of mass production in industry, and to-day, if the economic situation were mastered there would be sufficient food for all. However, it will never be mastered if the advice of orthodox economists is followed. It is the advice tendered to governments by such economists that has got us into trouble to-day. A remarkable statement by the Leader of the Opposition in the Tasmanian Parliament,  Mr. H.  S. Baker, appeared in a Hobart newspaper a few months ago. It is something that should be brought under the attention of honorable senators.  Mr. Baker  criticized the action of the Tasmanian Treasurer,  Mr. Dwyer-Gray,  at the last Loan Council meeting in suggesting, as I have often done in this chamber, that finance could be obtained from our national bank. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to refer at length to finance on this hill. 
I do not intend to speak at great length on this subject. I hope that this measure is only a start. The child of to-day is the man or woman of to-morrow, who will assume the responsibilities of the nation. A child that grows up in a . bad environment, and is neglected and uneducated, makes a very poor citizen. We cannot regard too seriously the welfare of children in our national life. Reports of health officers in almost every State  of the Commonwealth show that malnutrition, rickets and other children's ailments are .rife. I was in Hobart recently when Lady Gowrie opened the new Children's Hospital in that city. Many of the beds in that hospital are occupied by children suffering from limb troubles such as infantile paralysis caused by lack of proper food and lack of medical attention. J. have already given honorable senators statistics showing that a tremendous number of children will not benefit under this scheme. I hope that the Government will reconsider the matter, and bear in mind the fact that if there is a shortage of money, it can be obtained in millions. In paragraph 504 of its report, the Royal Commission on Banking- 
Order ! I shall have to ask the honorable senator to resume his seat if he persists in discussing finance on this bill. 
I congratulate the Government upon bringing down this measure, but I arn looking forward to the time when a wider view will be taken of the problem of the replacement of our population. It is generally accepted that a family of two children does not adequately replace the demise of the parents. A family of three children is required to do that, and. I hope that, in the near future, child endowment payments will be ou a sliding scale, so that, in the case of the fourth, fifth and sixth children, when the family cost factor becomes heavy, the payment will be more than the 5s. provided for in this measure. My view is that, in order to encourage larger families - and some encouragement is necessary - the payments in respect of the  fourth,  fifth and sixth children should be in the vicinity of 6s., 7s. and 8s. respectively in preference to a flat rate. I think that we could then expect better conditions than now obtain in the larger families. T congratulate the. Government upon the introduction of the measure. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator KEANE  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill bc now read a second time. 
The Australia-Southern Rhodesia trade agreement is the result of negotiations conducted at Canberra with the Southern Rhodesian Minister of Agriculture and Lands, Captain F. E. Harris, D.S.O. Designed to promote trade between Australia and Southern Rhodesia, the agreement provides for reciprocal tariff concessions on a preferential basis. The range of Southern Rhodesian products for which market opportunities exist in Australia is limited and, accordingly, the agreement provides for concessions by Australia  on  only three products - tobacco, crude asbestos and chrome ore. The item to which Southern Rhodesia attaches the most importance is tobacco. Southern Rhodesia is a producer of highgrade tobacco leaf of Virginia type and has built up a considerable export trade, particularly to the United Kingdom. The Southern Rhodesian Government is desirous of opening up further avenues for  the  export of tobacco leaf and, in existing circumstances, it would also be of considerable advantage to Australia if a greater proportion of our import requirement1! of tobacco could be obtained from Southern Rhodesia. 
There is no question, of course, of Rhodesian leaf replacing the Australian product. The Australian grower is assured of a market for his production. Indeed, in recent months, consumption of Australian leaf has been at a higher annual rate than current production. The Government is endeavouring to extend local production along sound lines in order to meet as large a proportion as possible of total requirements. Nevertheless, for some years to come, local production will have to be supplemented by very substantial imports. The  exchange costs involved by these imports are heavy and, in present circumstances, it is obviously advantageous for us to encourage production within the sterling area, thus lightening the burden on the Empire's dollar resources. Accordingly, the Government has agreed, subject to the approval of Parliament, to grant a tariff preference of 9d. per lb. on unmanufactured tobacco of .Southern Rhodesian origin. No spectacular results are expected as a result of this preference, but it is hoped that it will be possible to obtain at least some of our import requirements from Southern Rhodesia in the immediate future. From the longterm point of view, the extent to which Australia will be able to draw supplies from Southern Rhodesia will depend very largely on the capacity of producers in that country to increase their output of high-grade leaf suitable for blending with Australian tobaccos. Crude asbestos is an essential raw material, and is at present admitted into Australia from British Empire sources free of both customs and primage duties. In recent years, crude asbestos has been the only important product exported by Southern Rhodesia to Australia. In 1939, the value of the trade as shown in the Southern Rhodesian statistics amounted to about £66,000. 
Under the terms of the agreement, an undertaking is given that Southern Rhodesian asbestos will continue to be exempt from payment of primage duty and also that, should customs duties be imposed at any time, Southern Rhodesian asbestos will be admitted at the lowest rates accorded to any other country. Chrome ore, the third . item in which Southern Rhodesia is interested, is also admitted free of customs duty, but is at present subject to primage duty at the rate of 5 per cent, and, accordingly, is also liable to the special war duty of 10 per cent, of the amount of the duty payable. The agreement provides for the abolition of the primage duty on chrome ore of Southern Rhodesian origin and also contains a similar assurance with regard to customs duties as is given on crude asbestos. Manufacturing activities in Southern Rhodesia are on a relatively small scale and arc chiefly confined to the processing of local foodstuffs and raw materials; thus, the country is largely dependent on outside sources for its requirements of manufactured consumers' goods and industrial machinery and materials. Up to the present, Australia has had only a small share in Southern Rhodesia's import trade. Total imports into Southern Rhodesia in 1939 were valued at £9,000,000 and imports from Australia in that year totalled only £57,000. Wheat is the principal item in the trade, accounting for £28,000 of the total. The remaining items include textile bags, ploughs and other farm implements, timber, sporting goods, gelatine, flour and currants and raisins. One reason why Australia has failed to secure a larger share of the Southern Rhodesian market is that, owing to the existence of a preferential agreement between Southern Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa, many Australian products have been placed at a competitive disadvantage. The present agreement, if approved, will remove that disability in respect of those items of particular interest to Australia. 
Under the agreement, Southern Rhodesia has undertaken - 
To continue to admit free of duty a schedule of Australian goods comprising 33 items, included in which are butter, gelatine in bulk, glue, hops, bags and bagging, dairy machinery, agricultural machinery, fencing materials, iron and steel products, patent leather, plywood and unmanufactured' wood. 
To accord specified preferential rebates ranging from 10 per cent, to 50 per cent, from the duties applicable to United Kingdom goods on a schedule of Australian goods comprising nineteen items. As regards these items, Australia is placed on the same footing as South Africa, which is at present receiving substantial preferences over Australia. Included in the goods in this schedule are wheat, canned and dried fruits, jams, jellies and honey, condensed and powdered milk, beer, brandy, wines, boots and' shoes, leather n.e.i., sporting and athletic goods. 
To accord British preferential tariff rates to a schedule of Australian goods comprising fourteen items, included in which are wheat, flour, confectionery, whisky, clothing, hats, hosiery, millinery, electrical goods, manufactures of rubber. 
To accord similar tariff treatment to Australian wheat in the grain and Australian wheat flour in the event of permits being issued for the importation into Southern Rhodesia of wheat in the grain and wheat flour in commercial quantities from any other country at rates of duty lower than those accorded to Australia under the agreement. 
These concessions cover a wide range  of  products and give Australia an opportunity to supply a much greater proportion  of  Southern Rhodesia's import requirements than has been done in the past. The agreement contains the usual reciprocal clause with regard to content requirements. It is subject  to  the approval of the Parliaments  of  Australia and of Southern Rhodesia and  is of indefinite  duration, subject to six months' prior notice  of  termination. The Government  is  confident that the concessions provided for under the agreement will prove of material, benefit to both countries and will create useful opportunities for increased trade. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That thebill he now read a second time. 
On the 1st July, 1938, Act No. 13 of 1938 ratified and authorized certain agreements relating to the Empire air service between England and Australia. In the second schedule of that act, the form of agreement between Qantas Empire Airways Limited and the Commonwealth of Australia was approved. Included  in  the form of agreement whichwas duly executed were certain definitions of persons and authorities concerned  in  the operation of this agreement. At the time the original agreement was made, the Civil Aviation Board was  in  operation under the Department of Defence. On the 11th 
January, 1939, the Civil Aviation Board ceased to exist and the Department of Civil Aviation was constituted. The original agreement, however, provided for the Civil Aviation Board, the ControllerGeneral of Civil Aviation, and the Minister for Defence, the Secretary, Department of Defence and the Secretary, Civil Aviation Board, to carry out various matters contained in the agreement. Owing to the setting up of the Department of Civil Aviation, changes in organization have resulted and the original agreement is now operated by the Minister and Department of Civil Aviation. It is therefore necessary and convenient for the Commonwealth to enter into a supplementary agreement with Qantas Empire Airways Limited, which will provide for the deletion of titles which are no longer applicable, and the substitution of those which are now in use. These are clearly set out in the form of a supplementary agreement now included in the bill. There is no alteration in the objects secured in the original agreement. The bill simply provides for a supplementary agreement containing certain variations of definitions of titles of persons and authorities concerned in administering the agreement and ratifies the actions taken by those persons since the constitution of the Department of Civil Aviation as from the11th January, 1939. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
I desire to bring under  the  notice of the Senate and  of the 
Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Senator Foll)  another army contract that will contribute very largely to the very bad odour that surrounds so many other Army contracts. When I have finished this story I shall ask the Minister: For whom is this war being waged? Whatever his answer may be I am sure on the facts that I shall adduce, that the public will agree that the conduct of the war is being allowed to become a money-making festival in Australia for the Babbitt, the racketeer and the profiteer. Honorable senators may remember that I hammered away for three weeks endeavouring to get information about the Abbco  Bread Company Proprietary Limited fine. My questions were evaded by the Minister in addition to which I was deliberately misled. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - If the honorable senator implied that he was deliberately misled by a Minister he must withdraw that remark. 
I withdraw the word " deliberately ". I was misled. I had private information about the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited scandal, but I was compelled to take it from this National Parliament to a State parliament to have it ventilated. Now that the cold light of day has been thrown on it in the public press the Government has decided to hold a royal commission on it. Why could not the Minister have taken the trouble to investigate the matter when I asked him to do so, or did he ignore the Senate in the hope that honorable senators would forget it? There is far too dictatorial an attitude taken by Ministers towards questions asked by senators in' the public interest. Had the Government taken sufficient notice of my original questions I asked concerning Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited  three  months of valuable time would have been saved and there would have been no chance to cover up evidence and possibly to square witnesses. Government supporters may murmur that this cannot happen, but the evidence of our police courts is sufficient proof that it does happen. 
The case that I desire to bring before the Senate is, like its predecessors, rightly calculated to raise in the public mind more than a suspicion that funds, squeezed largely from breadliners, are going into the pockets of public thieves. When the Army pays more than it should for an article or a commodity, there is a traitor somewhere in the camp. As public men it is our job to seek him and to ensure that he shall not have the opportunity again. Without interruption from July, 1940,  Mr. R.  E. Fitzpatrick, a contractor of Horsley Road, Milperra, in the State of New South Wales, satisfactorily fulfilled a contract for blue metal at a price of approximately lis. 9d. a ton'.  Mr. Fitzpatrick  is a contractor of such magnitude that the army contract would be a drop in the ocean to him, so there can be no suggestion that this exposure is being made on his behalf. He was a big contractor before this war began and he continues to be a reliable source through which blue metal is obtained to-day. As I stated,  Mr. Fitzpatrick  started to supply the Army in July, 1940, and continued to do so un.til January, 1941.  His  orders for supplies of blue metal and receipts were invariably signed by officers on behalf of a  Major  Sinden,  A..D., of the Engineers' 'Store in the Eastern Command. Strangely and suddenly at the beginning of this year  Major  Sinden  decided to give the Army's blue metal business to somebody else at an increased price. Honorable senators will remember that  Mr. Fitzpatrick  had been supplying metal at lis. 9d a ton. On the 22nd January  Major  Sinden  gave a contract to Blue Metal and Gravel Proprietary Limited, of 34 Martin-place, Sydney, for similar blue metal at 14s. a ton, and on the 10th March gave an order to P. H. Childs, of  Eagel-street,  Liverpool, at 14s. 6d. a ton. The order numbers for these two transactions approved by  Major  Sinden  or his representative were L.314/2 and L.290/7, and their respective dates the 10th March and the 22nd January. I mention those two orders merely as examples but there were many more. 

 Mr. Fitzpatrick had at all times during this vital period been ready and willing to supply the Army needs at 11s. 9d. But  Major Sinden  determined that the Army should pay 14s. to 15s. a ton. Honorable senators will see from  Mr. Fitzpatrick's  consistent figure of 11s. 9d. that a margin of from 2s. 6d. to 3s. a ton was being paid unnecessarily. I suggest that it was going into some one's pocket. What accentuates the suspicion that surrounds this contract is that since the case was brought under my notice and I determined to expose the circumstances in the Senate,  Mr. Fitzpatrick  had been given another small order which was fulfilled at his usual price of11s. 9d. The order number of this contract was L.270/45. It was dated the 25th March, 1941, and was for 4 tons of¾-in. metal at11s. 9d. It was signed by or on behalf of  Major Sinden.  Just a fortnight before, on the 10th March, the same  Major Sinden  signed an order to  Mr. P.  H. Childs of Eagel-street, Liverpool, for 4 tons of¾-in. metal, but on that occasion he was content for the Army to pay 14s. 6d. a ton. 
In my possession I have the documentary proof in the form of signed and receipted order forms dated from July, 1940, showing that  Mr. Fitzpatrick  had consistently and satisfactorily supplied Army orders at a price that never exceeded11s. 9d. a ton and on occasions was as low as11s. 3d. a ton. Why then should  Major Sinden  suddenly decide to switch from this most economical source of metal supply to others which immediately involved the Army in increases of up to 25 per cent. in cost? There must be an immediate and thorough investigation of all the ramifications of this case. It must not be a whitewashing departmental inquiry. If it is to be effective it should be conducted by a parliamentary committee. I think, in fact, that the Government would be giving the most effective protection to public funds against the inroads of these plunderers if it established a permanent parliamentary committee to watch and examine all war contracts. If that were done it would put an end to the banditry in bread, boots and blue metal. Such banditry will never be stopped until a parliament appoints a committee of men who will go out and seek these people, and then report to Parliament. The cost involved would be much less than that of a royal commission, and the public would be satisfied that their interests were being watched and that those who plunder, rob and filch public money for their own aggrandisement, will be brought to book. 
.- On the 11th December last I asked the following questions in the Senate: - 
What are the names and rank of members of the Commonwealth Parliament serving in the Australian Imperial Force or other forces? 
What pay and allowance do they receive? 
What are the names of members of the various State parliaments serving in the Australian Imperial Force or other forces? 
What pay and allowance do they receive? 
An interim reply was given stating that, as research was necessary, an immediate reply could not be given but an answer would be furnished as early as possible. 
Later the information was supplied in a letter, but as it is important that the details be published, I ask leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - As the information was supplied in answer to a question, and the hour is late, and the honorable senator is entitled to read it, it will be incorporated in  Hansard. 
I rarely delay the Senate on the motion for the adjournment, hut the answer that I received to-day to a question which I addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army warrants my doing so now. The question reads - 
Having regard to theprobable temporary termination of Militia camps, what is proposed to safeguard the position of Militia officers who relinquished other callings and enlisted for Australian Imperial Force recruit training at depots for the duration of the war, and who were in January last recalled for training of Militia and demobilized from Australian Imperial Force recruit training? 
The answer I received was as follows - 
The position of an officer who is refused reinstatement in his employment by the employer by whom he was employed at the date upon which he volunteered for war service or received a notice requiring him to perform war service (as the case may be) is safeguarded by National Security (Reinstatement in Civil Employment) Regulations. 
That reply is not one of which the Minister could have approved, because it sidesteps the question. The men concerned were accepted for the duration of the war to instruct recruits for the Australian Imperial Force. They were demobilized and have now been given jobs at Militia camps where members of the Militia are trained. When that training ends these men are to be thrown on to their own resources. Consider the answer that I was given. I did not asls for information of that character. The gentleman who framed the reply must not think that those who represent the people in this Parliament are school children. One knows the provisions of the regulations. Scores of these men not merely relinquished their employment but they also sold their businesses when they enlisted for the duration of the war. Wow they are calmly told that nothing can be done for them. The following statement does not answer my question: - 

 Ae far as the military positions of these officers are concerned, no undertaking as to their reappointment can be given as they are not called up for any specific period, but only during such time as the need for their services exists- 
The Government should always play fair, more especially at this time when it is anxious to obtain re/emits for war service. Had I been able to make contact with the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  during the day I should not have taken up time by bringing this matter before the Senate to-night,  but I appeal to him through his representative in this chamber now to remedy what, on the facts, is clearly an injustice.  Senator Brand,  who is familiar with these matters, endorses my complaint. 
I direct the attention of the Government to the treatment meted out to a young man who was recently called up for compulsory training in New South Wales. This. young man who is 23 years of age has a widowed mother suffering from a serious heart' affliction and a younger brother aged sixteen, who is at school. Before he was called up for military service he was earning £5 10s. a week, out of which he maintained a home for his mother, paying 35s. a week rent, and kept his brother at school. When he was called up for military service he allotted his invalid mother £1 ls. a week, but the Department of the Army decided to allow her only 10s. 3d. a week. Therefore, while he was in camp for a period which was originally to be 70 days, but wa3 afterwards extended to 90 days, the mother's house rent fell in arrears and the son has been compelled to relinquish his university studies. Although this may be only an isolated case, the invalidity of the mother is of such a nature that she requires more than her invalid pension of £1 ls. a week to keep herself. T approached the department regarding the matter, and it was so generous that it allowed the mother an additional 6d. a day, but this was paid for only a fortnight. The payment was promised from the time when the son first went into camp, but, after the first payment, even the amount of 10s. 3d. was reduced. 
I also direct attention to the treatment received by soldiers who have returned from overseas during the present war. I am acquainted with two of these returned soldiers. When they boarded the vessel on which they returned to Australia, they were accompanied by two officers, who were doctors, and by three nurses. About 40 soldiers in all were invalided to Australia for various reasons. When they put to sea, there were over 100 deck chairs on the vessel, and the officers informed the invalided soldiers that they could not occupy these chairs because they were reserved for the two officers and the three nurses. On their arrival in Melbourne, the men were instructed by the officers to carry the luggage of the officers and the nurses to a transport that was waiting to take them to the Spencer-street Railway Station. On arrival at the station, the soldiers were again instructed to carry the luggage from the transport to the luggage van, which they did. On their journey to Sydney, they had breakfast at 7.20 a.m. at Moss Vale, and at the Central Railway Station, Sydney, they were instructed to carry the luggage to a transport which waa- to take them to Moore Park. They appeared before a board at Moore Park, and were X-rayed shortly after 10 a.m. Then they had to wait for their pay. This incident occurred on the 29th January last, which was a very hot day. The men had to stand in the sun until 4 p.m. Another vessel that called at Sydney the same day disembarked 30 undesirables who -were returned from overseas for being bad characters. While  the invalided soldiers were waiting in the sun, the undesirables received their pay and a suit of civilian clothes and were discharged. The invalided soldiers had received no refreshment up to the time they left Moore Park. At 4 p.m., they were informed that they could not be paid that day, because there was insufficient money available for the purpose. They could get only a small portion of their deferred pay. 
About 34 or 35. They were then told that the rest of their pay would be given to them on the following Monday. On their return a week later, they were again told that the money could not be paid to them, but that they would receive it at the Canterbury Racecourse on the following Monday. Such treatment of invalided soldiers should not be tolerated. One of the men who had helped to carry the luggage off the boat and at the .Spencer-street Railway Station appeared before an Array medical officer. He was also examined by a specialist in Macquarie-street, Sydney, who certified that he still had broken bones in his right foot. When he acquainted me of that fact I walked with him from the federal members' rooms in Martin-place to Pitt-street. He was stopped by three officers. He was wearing a New Zealand uniform which he had purchased for 2s. because a suit of clothes could not be supplied to him. on his return to Australia. He said that the only distinguishing mark on his uniform was the word " Australia " which appeared on the shoulders. 
Australian soldiers now serving in Egypt are paid in Australian currency, whilst the soldiers of other dominions are paid in sterling. In Egypt an Australian soldier receives only 78-J piastres to the £1, but the soldiers of other dominions are paid piastres to the £1. In Palestine an Australian soldier receives 800 milles to the £1, whilst a soldier from another dominion gets 1,000 mines to the £1. Shaving blades which can be purchased in Australia at the rate of five for 6d. cost Australian soldiers 2s. 6d., so that their purchasing power is reduced to a level much below that of soldiers from other dominions. I submit that the Go vernment should take steps to see that our men who are now being returned from the theatre of war receive at least better treatment than that of soldiers who fought in the last war, some of whom can be seen wheeling barrows in the streets of Sydney. If we are to make Australia a country fit for the people of a great democracy to live in, we should see that our returned soldiers get the treatment that they deserve. 
 I shall make no reference to the remarks of  Senator Amour  with regard to the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited, because its affairs are now being investigated by a royal commission appointed by the Commonwealth Government. The honorable senator went on to refer to a contract for blue metal, which he said a military officer, whom he mentioned by name, had cancelled and who had arranged with another contractor to supply blue metal at a higher price. He then suggested that money was going into somebody's pocket. He talked about plunderers and racketeers and used words of that description. I know nothing of the circumstances of this case, and perhaps nobody except the honorable senator has heard of this matter before. However, I shall have it brought under the notice of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender),  and will ask him to have the matter investigated. I suggest with all due respect to the honorable senator that before he uses the names of officers, who may be perfectly innocent of charges such as the honorable senator has mentioned, it would be only fair for him to approach first the Minister concerned in order to be sure of his facts. Then if the facts were as in accord with the complaints made to the honorable senator he would have every right to ventilate the matter in this Parliament. If he could not ascertain the facts there would be some justification for bringing the matter under the notice of the Senate, but it is hardly fair for him to pre-judge this case on statements made to him on behalf of . only one of the parties concerned. No member of this Government or of this Parliament has any desire to shield anybody who has done wrong in connexion with government contracts or work associated with the war. I can give an  assurance to the Senate that, whenever possible, unscrupulous contractors will be brought to book. Although wc do not know the whole of the circumstances in this case, an officer has been virtually branded as guilty of a crime before he has had an opportunity to defend himself or before the Minister in charge of the department concerned has been able to inquire into the facts. During my term as Minister, cases have been brought under my notice by honorable senators, and, on inquiries being made, it has been found that the circumstances were entirely different from what they were represented to bc in the original complaints made to those senators. It is most unfair to give the names as has been done by  Senator Amour,  of officials who may be highly reputable members of the Defence forces, and are carrying out their duties faithfully and well, until the facts have been ascertained and the Minister concerned given an opportunity to make the fullest possible investigation. I assure the honorable senator that a complete investigation will he carried out in regard to this matter. 
I regret that the answer supplied to  Senator A.  J. McLachlan was not satisfactory to the honorable senator. I shall bring his representations under the notice of the Minister for the' Army with a view to securing the information which he desires.  Senator Arthur  referred to the treatment of men who served in the 1914-18 conflict. In spite of criticism of our repatriation legislation, it is generally admitted that Australia's treatment of its men who fought in that war compares more than favorably with the repatriation activities of any other country. Admittedly, a few anomalies arose; but adequate and ample machinery is provided under the repatriation legislation to enable applicants for pensions to submit their cases to the Commissioner and the various tribunals. I remind the honorable senator that the Returned  Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia, which truly represents returned soldier opinion in this country, has repeatedly stressed the fact that our repatriation legislation is the best of its kind in the world. That association has helped to secure many of the concessions which are now rightly granted to returned men. Wo hear it said from time to time that we must ensure that men who return from the present conflict shall be treated better than those who returned from -the war of 1914-18. Such comment, which seeks to belittle our repatriation legislation, is not justified. Undoubtedly Australia's record so far as repatriation is concerned is one of which we can be very proud.  Senator Arthur  also complained of &gt;the treatment meted out on the hospital ship to men who were recently invalided from theatres of war. He said that although over 100 deck chairs were available on the ship the men were not allowed to use them. He also spoke of the inconveniences which these men suffered as the result of delays in the payment of their allowances. This case is typical of those in which honorable senators should immediately submit to the Minister for the Army information which calls for an investigation. 
The Minister may not have been able to see the honorable senator at the time he was approached, but he is always willing to see members of Parliament who desire to make representations to him on such matters. In any case the honorable senator could have placed those matters before the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie).  I make no attempt to teach honorable senators their business, but merely point out that, in many cases of this kind, the information given to honorable senators is often found upon investigation to exaggerate the facts. I am not suggesting that that is so in this case. However, honorable senators, on being approached on matters such as those mentioned should immediately interview Ministers with a view to obtaining an explanation. Times out of number honorable senators approach Ministers on other matters, and thus enable Ministers to have their. representations investigated; and very often it is found that the information supplied to honorable senators is not correct. I repeat that honorable senators would not only assist Ministers but also help their own case if they immediately approached Ministers with a view to ascertaining the facts before, as sometimes happens, they raise the subject of a complaint in the Senate. I do not suggest that that has been the case in this instance. I assure honorable senators that all of the matters raised on the motion for the adjournment will be brought under the notice of the respective Ministers concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
What would be the pecuniary gain orloss - 
to a man with a wife and two children under the present child endowment proposals on a salary where the disallowance of exemption for one child would make his income taxable; 
to a man with a wife and three children on a salary of £600 per annum ; 
to a man with a wife and three children on a salary of £1,000 per annum? 
-The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answers : - 
The following figures are baaed on the Commonwealth income tax rates at present in  force  for income from personal exertion. No account is taken of State taxation, because it is assumed that the States will  not  withdraw their concessional deductions: - 
Extra tax would be £7 to nil, depending on thesize of his taxable income as a result of the withdrawal of the concessional deduction. This could in any case not amount to more than £50. The payment of £13 endowment would make the net benefit £6 to £13. 
Assuming for the sake of simplicity that his only remaining concessional deductions were £100 for a wife and one child (i.e., ignoring probable deductions for State taxation and insurance, &amp;c.),thenetbenefit would be £6 per child receiving endowment, a total of £12. 
On the same assumption as for (b), the loss per child is £1, making a total of £2. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Who are the censors who act for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and what are their qualifications for the positions which they hold? 
How many broadcast addresses have they censored since the outbreak of the war? 
Will members of the Senate be allowed to examine such addresses, and, if so, will they be supplied with copies if requests are made for same? 
The information is being obtained, and will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Has the inquiry that has been conducted by the Tariff Board into shipbuilding in Australia been completed; if not, can the Minister state when such inquiry will be completed and a report made to the House? 
Will the Minister furnish each honorable senator with a copy of the report immediately it is available? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
The inquiry has been completed, but the report has not yet been received. 
It is not the practice to circulatereports of this nature until they have been tabled in Parliament and the motion for their printing agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Who are the parties to the wool levy agreement? 
What amount did each party agree to contribute by the agreement? 
What has been contributed to date by each party ? 
Have any of the parties to the agreement defaulted in their payments in any way to date? 
If the answer to question 4 is in the affirmative, which party has defaulted, and for what amount? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : -  1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Nothing is known of a wool levy agreement.This may refer, however, to the tax imposed under the Wool Tax Act 1936 on all wool grown in Australia and shorn on or after the 1st July, 1936. This tax is for the purpose of financing the Australian Wool Board in its efforts, by publicity and research or any other means, to improve the production of wool in Australia and increase and extend the use of wool throughout the world. The levies provided for under the Wool Tax Act 1936 are - For each bale of wool, 6d.; for each  fadge or butt of wool, 3d.; for each bag of wool, Id. The amount collected in 1938-39 was £84,399 4s. 6d. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is the Marketing Board under the apple and pear acquisition scheme endeavouring to sell the fruit at a profit, or is it satisfied to cover costs? 
Is it the policy of the Marketing Board to show a small loss and get as much fruit as possible into consumption? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
During the period of heavy supplies the Apple and Vear Marketing Board is endeavouring only to cover costs, but this does not necessarily apply in every instance, as prices must bc regulated according to demand. The basis of the financial aspects of the scheme is that total realizations from sales  should  cover advances to growers, presentation costs and other expenses. 
The board is endeavouring to get as much fruit as possible into consumption, but not necessarily at a loss. The board has been instructed to dispose of the greatest quantity of fruit at the lowest possible prices. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Are the control and arrangements of sales under the apple and pear acquisition scheme, from the grower to the distributor for local sales, the same in each State? 
What is the rate of commission paid to the agent or agents in each State? 
What is the rate of commission per case for interstate shipment? 
No. The arrangements which bare been set up have regard to the conditions in each State. 
Rates of commission vary according to the circumstances and services provided. In the capital cities, the following rates apply: Sydney and Melbourne, 7i per cent., with a minimum of 6d. a case; Brisbane, 10 per cent., with a rebate of Id. a case between 4s. and 8s., and lid. a case over 8s.; Adelaide, a discount of 6d. a case to authorized wholesale merchants; Perth, 3d. a case, plus  3h  per cent.; Hobart, distributor's service fee of 5d. a case. 
The rates "of commission on interstate shipments are the 6ame as in 2 above, except that, in Sydney, an extra id. a case is payable for receiving and delivery charge. 
Since midnight last night I have had an opportunity to peruse the bill. The Minister  (Senator  'Collett) accurately described its purpose in his secondreading speech. It merely extends to those serving in the present war .benefits granted to soldiers on their return from the 1914-18 war. The Opposition support the bill and will assist to give it a speedy passage. 
I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of this measure. I draw its attention to the desirability of beginning the work of constructing war service homes earlier than was done at the termination of the last war. Many mistakes were made in connexion with the previous scheme, and, owing to faulty administration the cost of the houses proved a serious disadvantage to returned soldiers who occupied them. I suggest that the Government should launch its construction policy before the majority of the men return from the present war. The wive3 and families of many members of the Australian Imperial Forces are living in rented properties, many of which are not entirely satisfactory to them. I should think that it would he a simple matter for the consent of the soldier to be obtained to a contract of sale, so that his wife and family could begin occupation of a war service home during his absence. The family would not only save rent but a contribution would also be made towards the accumulation of an asset for the soldier on his return. There must be hundreds of men, who have enlisted in metropolitan areas, to whom the benefits of repatriation in the form of facilities for land settlement or other such assistance would not appeal, and I take it that these men would be entitled to the benefits of the War Service Homes Act. At the termination of the last war there was such a rush of building activities that contractors' prices, the cost of land, and  the prices of bricks and timber, rose steeply. After the first rush of building activities due to the construction of annexes to factories and workshops for the manufacture of munitions, and for the carrying out of other defence contracts, it is possible that the building trade will slump slightly, and the construction of war service homes on an extensive scale would probably check that slump, and keep carpenters, bricklayers, plumbers and similar workmen in steady employment. 

 Senator ALLAN MCDONALD.Yes. A permanent resident of a metropolitan area could sign a contract for a building or give authority to his wife to sign it on his behalf, so that the erection of a home could be commenced immediately. The proposition is simple. If ray suggestion be adopted we should immediately make a great contribution towards the solution of an important part of our post-war problems. I commend the Government for introducing the bill. 
 I should like to know whether members of the Mercantile Marine will be entitled to the benefits provided under this measure. 
As an occupant of a war service home myself, I agree with much of what  Senator Allan  MacDonald has said. When the war service home construction programme was under way after the last war the demand for homes and the best construction materials was very keen, but it must be admitted that the best materials were not put into many of the homes then built for returned soldiers. In addition, the average price of a war service home, of from £800 to £900, which was influenced largely by the high cost of materials and labour, was too costly for the average returned soldier, with the result that a demand arose for a reduction of values. I commend the Government for introducing the bill. I am pleased that it has not decided to wait until the cessation of hostilities before attending to this problem. Whatever steps it takes in that direc tion now will reduce our difficulties after the war. If we hesitate, as was done after the last war, to attend to this problem, we shall find that the same difficulties will arise. Another evil associated with our war service homes programme after the last war was the activities of speculators. Values reached such a high level that many soldiers were forced to abandon their homes. They realized that they could not pay off their home in their lifetime. I urge the Government to commence this scheme immediately. 
.- I again urge that in all cases an opportunity be given to honorable senators to peruse the Minister's second-reading speech before measures are proceeded with. Under the present practice in this respect honorable senators find it impossible to to analyse properly even an innocuous measure of this kind. The bill is excellent, because it is designed to give immediate relief to the wives and children of soldiers who are now fighting abroad. Honorable senators know that this section of the community is now being scandalously victimized by rent racketeers. That is certainly the case in Melbourne, despite recent legislation passed by this Government, and I have no doubt that the position in each of the other capitals is just as bad. I support  Senator Allan  MacDonald's remarks on that aspect of the problem. The Government should indicate clearly the procedure under which it is proposed to undertake this scheme. The Minister will recall the malodorous handling of this problem after the last war, and the scandals then associated with the supply of material and the building of war service homes. Whilst this scheme appears to be excellent, I should like to know what precautions the Government intends to take in order to avert the repetition of those scandals. Will these homes be built by private contract, or by the department itself? Have any sites yet been selected for these homes? We do not want to see the spectacle of unsuitable land again being unloaded on the department. This bill is some instalment towards the rectification of present appalling housing conditions in this country. In Melbourne there is a definite shortage of 30,000 homes. This proposal should at least tend to relieve that position, and, at the same time, remove some of the anxieties of members of our fighting forces who wish to safeguard the welfare of their wives and families. 
I endorse the remarks of  Senator Keane  concerning the practice of asking honorable senators to deal with measures before they are given an opportunity to examine the Minister's second-reading speech. I have raised this matter on several occasions. Again I ask why the practice followed in the South Australian Parliament cannot he adopted here, and proofs of the previous day's proceedings placed in the party rooms. Failing that a copy of the Minister's second-reading speech should be furnished to honorable senators immediately after it is delivered, or, at least, before the hill under consideration is proceeded with. 
On a previous occasion I was chided by  Senator James  McLachlan when I urged that war service homes should be made available free of interest. At present occupants of war service homes find that, owing to interest rates, they will take an unreasonable time to pay off the cost of their homes. Surely, we have reached the stage in the financial development of this country when we can afford to provide these homes free of interest. 
Yes. We have already been informed that our national credit has been used to some degree in financing our war effort. In this matter also the Commonwealth should act upon the recommendation of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems. Surely, we could provide a few million pounds from that source and so obviate the burdens now imposed upon members of our fighting forces. 
This is an important bill. I do not oppose it; but I regret that it has been brought down in circumstances which will not permit hon orable senators generally to go thoroughly into our housing problem. All citizens, whether they are members of our fighting forces or their dependants, are entitled to equal treatment so far as the provision of housing is concerned. Particularly is that so at a time when the shortage of houses is so acute. Why could not the provisions of the Commonwealth Housing Act he made applicable to that section of the community which is covered by this measure? Now that we appear to be in the habit of overcoming national problems which previously appeared insurmountable, surely we can smooth out this problem. Parliament should review the housing problem as a whole. No reason exists why a special concession should not be made to members of our fighting forces and their dependants in this matter. In addition, the easy payments allowed to that section should be extended to all sections of the community. It appears wrong that we have so many acts of Parliament dealing with the problem of housing. The cause of the trouble appears to arise from our practice of continually grouping people into sections, and dealing with them in sections. As the National Parliament we should deal with the housing requirements of the community as a whole. I hope that next session we shall be given an opportunity to review existing housing legislation, as a whole, including even this bill. 
I wish to comment briefly on the speeches made by the two returned soldier senators. I support the bill - nobody could justify opposing it - but I cannot see eye to eye with  Senator Allan  MacDonald. I agree that it would be of great advantage if the Government could inaugurate a housing scheme immediately, because of the shortage of housing accommodation in Australia. It is necessary that a scheme should be undertaken to provide houses for soldiers upon their return from this war, but I do not agree with the principle of asking soldiers who are now abroad, and their wives, to enter into heavy commitments. It would be much wiser if the Government built the houses and let them at a reasonable rental to the soldiers' wives and families. 
Nobody wants to see ex-soldiers occupying their own homes more than I do. If the honorable senator would extend to me the same courtesy that I always extend to him when he is speaking, he would be able to appreciate the point that I am about to make. Not only do I wish to see adequate housing provided for soldiers, but also for all those connected with our war effort. I hope that this Government will make it possible for all workers and soldiers to own their own homes, but I do not wish to see men who are abroad at present entering into commitments, paying deposits on homes, partly paying them off, and then having the misfortune not to return to Australia. In such cases wives and families of soldiers would not have sufficient means to complete the purchase of their homes. 
That is so, but they have to pay for them. 
That may be so, but the question is whether a widow could afford any payments at all. 
Of course. As  Senator Fraser  pointed out, during the last war many homes were built at a high cost. A period of deflation followed, and in a few years, the capital cost of the homes could not be realized. The same might happen again, and even if it does not, there will still be the difficulty that I have mentioned. A widow may not wish to live in a particular place. She may consider that she would have better opportunities elsewhere. If the property were put on the market it would not realize the full price, and perhaps she would not get an amount equal to the deposit paid. 
As has been pointed out very clearly by honorable senators on this side of the chamber, there would be a distinct possibility of the widow losing the whole of her investment. It would not hurt the Government to build homes and let them at reasonable rentals until such time as the soldiers returned to Australia. Upon their return, the soldiers could then decide whether they would enter into agreements to purchase homes. I do not think that the honorable senator's proposal is very wise. A scheme along the lines I have mentioned should be adopted. 
&lt;The interest rate charged to occupants of war service homes precludes any possibility of them ever owning them. 
And thousands have lost their homes. That is something that should be borne in mind. 
That is not so. 1 asked the department to supply me with the number of war service homes in the Belmore, Canterbury and Bankstown area, and it took me three hours on one day and three hours on another day to drive around in a motor car and merely look at them. When  Senator Cooper  says that only a small percentage of returned soldiers have lost their homes, I invite him to take a look at Vilmy-street  in Bankstown. There is hardly a returned soldier left there. There are probably as many war service homes in the Canterbury area as there are in the whole of Queensland. When it is seen that a soldier has no chance whatsoever to meet his commitments, the Government should reduce the interest charge. Many of the war service homes were built for about £900, and originally the occupants had to pay interest at the rate of 5 per cent. That charge was subsequently reduced to 4 per cent. What chance did the occupants have to purchase their homes? They were barely able to meet the interest charge. When the depression came - and another depression will come - many of them lost their homes. 
 Was not the period of payment extended ? 
I rise to protest against the remarks made by the Minister administering War Service Homes  (Senator Collett).  The Government -would have us believe that its only concern is to provide for the welfare of returned soldiers, but at the same time it is associated with a scheme under which interest charges exceed the capital cost. It is capitalization of patriotism, or, in other words, patriotism plus profits. It would be quite an easy matter to erect homes for returned soldiers or nurses, and for the occupants to pay the exact cost of construction, plus the usual administrative charges. Nothing can justify the charging of interest. To-day volunteers for military service are being sought all over the Commonwealth. Men are wanted to fight for the Empire. They will respond to the call, fight for the Empire, and when they come back and ask for homes, the Government will  say,  " Yes, provided we can make a maximum profit out of you ". 
It is not  a  question of coming 'back to earth. It is callous and brutal, more particularly as it affects those returned soldiers who find themselves unable to keep up their payments. They are thrown out  of  their homes and reduced to the level  of  the dole. That is likely to happen  to a  far greater degree after this war than  it  did after the last war. The protest made by  Senator Amour  and others is timely and the Government should give it serious consideration. If honorable senators opposite think that this system will operate in perpetuity and that the interest charges will be paid indefinitely  by  soldiers returning from this war, they will be sadly disillusioned. The Government would be well advised  to  heed the warning and to see  if  it is not possible to provide these homes at cost. The returned soldiers are not asking for something for nothing. If they can pay they will do so. They should not be asked to enter into an undertaking in which interest charges exceed the capital cost, and so provide more money for financiers who stayed  at  home. 
I have before me the Commonwealth Housing Act of 1927-28, passed  by  the Bruce-Page Government. At that time a housing scheme had been placed before the electors at  no  fewer that -three elections. That Act involved an appropriation  of  £26,000,000 for a Commonwealth housing scheme, but I understand that up to the present only £300,000 has been expended in that direction, and that that amount has been expended in New South Wales only recently. I understand that the housing problem  is  serious even in Canberra, where more than 400 new houses are required. The act provided that the funds of the Commonwealth Savings Bank be used to finance the housing scheme. It is interesting to note that the Commonwealth 
Parliament passed the act long before the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems made its report. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon.  J.  B. Hayes). - The subject which the honorable senator is discussing is not relevant to the bill. 
The extension of the war service homes scheme will create a new asset for Australia and the constructional work will absorb a large volume of labour. I agree with  Senator Cameron  that the building of houses for returned soldiers should be financed by the Commonwealth Bank free of interest so that men who fought in the war will not be compelled to pay part of its cost. I hope that the returned soldiers for whom houses are built by the War Service Homes Commission will have the properties transferred to them at a figure representing the actual cost of the land and building. 
I appreciate the Government's action in submitting the measure to Parliament so that provision may be made for the erection of homes for soldiers, airmen and nurses engaged in the present war. Some consideration, however, should be given to the housing needs of soldiers in industry. Much of the present-day industrial trouble is caused by the shortage of houses for the workers.  Senator Keane  stated that. 30,000 new houses are needed in the suburbs of Melbourne. I know that there is a serious housing shortage in New South Wales. Many workers in munitions and arms factories are compelled to travel long distances daily, in some instances 30 miles, to reach their work. I shall cite one example: A workman rises at 5 a.m., walks to a bus stop, catches a bus at 6 a.m., and reaches his work at 7 a.m. He does not return home till 8 p.m. Men who travel long distances to and from work spend practically all of their time working and sleeping. They have no leisure or recreation. 
The matter which the honorable senator is discussing does not come within the scope of the bill. 
Government of New South Wales is providing about one-fifth of the necessary accommodation. Where, say, 500 houses are needed, only 100 are being built, and' the consequence is that disputes have developed over the question : " Who is to occupy the houses ? " The factory managers consider that the skilled men in the higher grades should be given preference, but such a decision naturally causes dissatisfaction amongst those in the lower grades. The only solution is for the Government to make adequate provision for the housing of employees in the war industries. 
The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill. 
In view of the fact that the bill makes provision for returned soldiers, sailors, airmen and nurses taking advantage of the War! Service Homes Act, I hope that the administration of war service homes will be better than it was after the last war. 
From 1931 to 1934. 
I shall mention a few anomalies of the scheme. A number of returned soldiers who had entered into obligations to purchase homes from the War Service Homes Commission were forced, owing to the depression, to vacate their homes in 1931. The War Service Homes Commission still held them to their obligation to pay interest on the principal. They received letters from the commission demanding payment although the houses were occupied by civilians whom the commission charged an exorbitant rent, but the rent received by the commission was not charged to the credit of the returned soldier. 
The rent received by the commission was paid to its credit and the soldiers were not credited with that amount of rent. I have in mind a war service homes estate at Littleton Village, Lithgow. In that district the War Service Homes Commission entered into the real estate business and increased rents. During the depression many persons were compelled to vacate the commission's houses because of the high rents charged. 
Yes. When the civilian tenants vacated the houses the commission did not take adequate precautions to keep the properties in good order. Windows were broken, doors torn off and stoves taken away. The houses got into such a deplorable condition that the commission was compelled to spend a considerable amount of money on repairs before the houses could be let again. I hope that there will not be a repetition of that state of affairs in the event of another depression occurring. The Government should pay particular attention to the policy of the commission of keeping returned soldiers and civilians who have purchased war service homes on a deposit of 10 per cent, of the valuation tied to the obligation to make payments on the houses although they were forced to vacate them during the depression. There are many such houses in Sydney, Lithgow and Newcastle. If the information that has been supplied to me regarding these anomalies is correct, the Government should take action to ensure that they will not recur when the extended scheme operates. I believe that my informants are as honest as are the " rubber stamp " public servants who were placed in charge of the administration of war service homes at its inception. 
I believe that the bill will make a useful contribution to the problem of housing the Australian people. Admittedly mistakes were made after the last war in the administration of the war service homes scheme, but I do not think that they will be repeated, because the commission has since gained a great deal of experience. In the early stages of the scheme many mistakes were made because houses were badly designed and their construction was faulty. I have first-hand knowledge of war service homes estates near Sydney and I claim to possess some knowledge of valuations. Some of the cottages are worth about 75 per cent, of the valuation placed on them by the commission. They should be revalued and sold at the highest price that can be obtained. The homes constructed in the later stages of the scheme were of a much better type. The designs are better, and generally they are a good class of property. The number of homes erected under this scheme is 37,385, but more than 400,000 soldiers enlisted in the last war. Many of the returned soldiers preferred to buy homes without the assistance of the commission. If, say, 10 per cent, of the soldiers returning from the present war apply for homes to be provided by the War Service Homes Commission they will receive special concessions. I should like to learn whether concessions are to be made to soldiers who already own homes or who prefer to buy them without the assistance of the commission. That opens up a wide problem which must bc considered on very broad principles. 

 Senator Amour referred to the fact that repayments are made over a period of about 37 years, but 37 years is little in the life of a well-constructed cottage. Payments have to be spread over that time because weekly repayments of principal and interest are smaller than the rent that would be charged for similar houses in different circumstances. Many occupants of war service homes in Sydney are purchasing their homes on weekly payments which are from 25 to 50 per cent, less than they would have to pay on a rental basis. I have always found that the War Service Homes Commission has administered the department most sympathetically. The fact cannot be disguised that frequently through their own fault many returned soldiers have forfeited their homes. Every representation that I have made to the commission on behalf of these men has been treated fairly and sympathetically. Nevertheless the proposed new scheme will be better than the old one because the commission has profited by the mistakes made in the first scheme. 
 in reply  - I am grateful for the commendation of this bill given by the Leader of the Opposition (SenatorCollings), and also for the other contributions to the debate. I regret that there was insufficient time in which to supply all honorable senators with  copies  of my second-reading speech. Complaints that Ministers' second-reading speeches are not distributed recur, but the remedy lies more or less in the hands of honorable senators themselves. I shall not endeavour to reply to honorable senators individually. Reference was made to previous errors. The mistakes of the past will not be repeated. In essence the scheme is to provide returned soldiers with an opportunity to acquire a home, which he can call his own, on the bestpossible terms. It is not proposed to buy large blocks of land and to erect houses, an error made in the early days of the first scheme, because it is recognized that the soldiers will want to exercise their own choice as regards the site and cost of their homes.  Senator Dein  gave the salient facts about repayment. The purchasers of homes are given the easiest possible terms, at the low interest rate of 4 per cent. The terms result in five and six-roomed houses being available at as low as one-half of the rental paid for similar houses obtained in the ordinary way. During occupancy the purchasers are paying for the ultimate possession of their own home. The building of houses in anticipation of them being required by soldiers on their return to Australia is not practicable. If there is any obligation to be assumed it must be assumed by the soldier. If he does not return, his widow has certain privileges.  Senator Aylett  hit the nail on the head when hesaid that it was not in the interests of a soldier or of his family to have a wife assume liabilities which he may not be able to meet in the future. 
I admit that, but that was not the fault of the commission or of the Government. The fault lay, rather, in another quarter. The honorable senator's experience of building materials was similar to mine, but mistakes will be avoided in the future. I assure  Senator Keane  that his complaint about the lack of supervision in the past will be met under the new conditions. An ex-soldier will choose his own site and type of house. There will be no room for speculation. The provision of homes free of interest is an academic subject which I will leave with those who liketo indulge in fanciful thinking. 
I leave that subject with the other. I think that each State has a housing scheme. I shall not discuss consolidation of those schemes with that of the Commonwealth, but I point out that the War Service Homes Commission is the agent of the Commonwealth housing scheme. The cost of the administration of the commission is less than 10s. per cent., which is economic.  Senator Amour  lamented generally about the weaknesses of the scheme, but perhaps he will admit that he himself has benefited very greatly from it. In the depression, there was a dislocation because blocks of houses in the distant suburbs were vacated when work became scarce and men flocked to the cities, giving up any hope of retaining not only occupancy, but also rights to retain ownership. From what I have seen of the records, the commission gave most sympathetic consideration to all cases. The rents received from the letting of the houses to civilians have been credited to the accounts of the mortgagor applicants .  Senator Cameron's  contribution to the debate I group with  Senator Brown's  remark as a subject for academic discussion.  Senator Arthur's  retrospects I leave where they should be left: with the honorable senator. I thank  Senator Dein  for his commendation and assure honorable senators that the Government and the commission have past errors very much in mind, and will take action to ensure that they shall not be repeated. On the subject of whether the returned soldiers generally have regarded the war service homes scheme as being advantageous to them, I shall quote the following extract from the report of the committee which investigated the subject of war service homes in 1932: - 
During the inquiry, many tributes were paid by witnesses to the War Service Homes Commission and its agents and representatives. It was generally acknowledged that the administration was sympathetic and helpful and that every consideration was being shown to deserving clients who had been adversely affected by the depression. Occasionally, a witness deplored what was described as the peremptory tone of a letter regarding arrears or frequent inquiries about his income, but these were no more than the inevitable sequel of the business methods which must be adopted in a large organization. It is notoriously difficult for a creditor or a mortgagee to satisfy his clients, and it speaks volumes for the commission that the tributes paid to its administration greatly exceeded the complaints. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Definitions). 
In view of the fact that thousands of married soldiers serving abroad with the Australian Imperial Force must still be paying for homes under hire-purchase agreements or on mortgage, would it be possible for the War Service Homes Commission to take over their debts which, I suppose, are being repaid at rates of interests of 6 or 7 per cent. ? After having liquidated the original debt, the commission could charge the soldiers concerned 3½ or not more than 4 per cent., which is the amount which the Government pays for money it borrows. That would represent a great saving to the soldiers. 
The question raised by the honorable senator has nothing to do with the clause, but if he will discuss it with me later, I shall see what can be done. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- Again I voice my perennial complaint that copies of the second-reading speeches of Ministers on important bills are not supplied to honorable senators. Since second-reading speeches are usually prepared by Ministers with the assistance of their departmental officers, a few extra typed copies could be distributed without difficulty. Many questions arise as to how child endowment payments should be made, and who should be eligible to receive them, and one is not easily able to find answers to these questions by  a  perusal of the bill. 
I welcome this measure, because it marks a milestone in the social history of this country. It is amazing that after many years, this scheme has been introduced by a government of the political colour of the present Ministry. No doubt the credit for the introduction of the scheme will be claimed by the Government, and I have no complaint in that regard. The onus of financing it will also rest on the present Ministry, but this legislation could not have been passed without the active cooperation of the Labour party, which has advocated child endowment for the last 40 years. Unlike the present Government, the Labour party has not been in office for 25 years, and, therefore, it cannot be said that it has been dilatory in regard to this measure. The bill was introduced primarily, I believe, as the result of the recent abortive basic wage decision of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. My only reason for that utterance is that the working people of Australia were relying on a favorable decision by the court, but the judgment was of a negative character. The Government has acted wisely in submitting this proposal, which, I believe, will be welcomed in thousands of homes. Thousands of mothers will bless this Parliament for an epic act in the midst of the greatest war in which the Empire has ever been engaged. Despite colossal war expenditure and unprecedentedly high taxes, this Parliament will furnish to the mothers of Australia the well-deserved and necessary assistance for which the bill provides. 
I should have liked the measure to have applied to all children up to the age of sixteen years. Perhaps, at some future time, an amendment in that direction will be embodied in the scheme. I regret that the payment will not be slightly higher than that proposed. It may be possible to liberalize and widen the scope of the scheme when normal conditions are again experienced in Australia. In season and out of season it has been urged that the present wage system does not make fair provision for married men, but I point out that that position will not be altered by the passage of a child endowment scheme. Although this legislation will afford relief to married workers, the fight for an adequate basic wage will continue. 
It is an invitation to them to press for industrial justice, because they still contend that the basic wage is inadequate. The combined effect of this calamitous war, a wholly unsatisfactory decision by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, and the fact that a shrewd government is in power, has been to provide the people of Australia with this excellent scheme of child endowment. The interest bill of the Commonwealth has grown to more than £1,000,000 weekly. The Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  when interviewed in Melbourne recently said : " We have decided to have a mechanized unit. It will cost £30,000,000." He made that statement calmly, as though the money were already in hand. One would imagine that Australia did not have to meet an interest bill of £1,000,000 a week, whether the war be won, lost or drawn. Therefore, I confess that the Government has been courageous in introducing this measure. Had the Labour party been in power it would probably have submitted a similar scheme. My friend  Senator Darcey  is fighting strenuously for the release of additional national credit, in order to finance certain activities, but I do not think that at any time he has suggested that social services should be financed by inflation of the credit of this country. Owing to our huge war expenditure, the gradual drying up of the loan market and our heavy overseas indebtedness, I consider that the Government will be forced to proceed somewhat on the lines advocated by  Senator Darcey. 

 Senator Allan MacDonald stated that he welcomed the bill and thought that it would be of great assistance to the working people ; but it will be recollected that, only four days ago, the honorable senator said that if there were a little more restraint by the workers in spending their money there would be less talk about wage-slaves. I do not believe that there are wage-slaves in this country. Australian workers are not the kind of men who are likely to become wage-slaves, and I suggest that men like  Senator Allan  MacDonald are not sincere in their professed regard for the welfare of the workers. 
I was very worried when I noticed that supporters of the Government in the House of Representatives were doing their best to wreck this bill, because the employers are to be required to contribute a moiety of the cost of the scheme. When the next federal general elections occur, the people will be reminded that the only party that solidly supported child endowment was the Labour party. That is my answer to  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, who is always clever and never abusive. If he used some of his oratorical and persuasive powers in his own caucus, the workers might obtain further social reforms. If members of the Opposition in this chamber remained silent during the discussion of the machinery bills relating to child endowment, it was because they knew that the Government had thus committed itself to a scheme which the Labour party had strongly supported for a great many years. 
The Minister who moved the second reading of the bill said that the Government of which he is a member took credit for its introduction. I have no complaint to make about that, but, in 1931, when the Labour party waa in office, it was not actually in power, because it was unable to pass vital measures through the Senate. At that time the greatest industrial crisis ever experienced in Australia had to be faced by the Scullin Government, -which was forced to reduce the invalid and old-age pension and to cut down the wages of government employees by 25 per cent. Although  Senator James  McLachlan and other honorable senators opposite  were  100 per cent, behind the action taken by the Labour Government at that time in fearlessly reducing the wages of public servants, the United Australia party was foul enough to misrepresent the motives of the Scullin Government at the ensuing elections. I do not forget those things. But whenever I am talking of child endowment I shall be fair to the Government and admit that it brought down this legislation. However, we would not have this measure now before us but for the co-operation of the Opposition in both Houses. Honorable senators opposite are not solid on the matter ; they want to wreck child endowment because some employers might lose a little of their income. 
We have displayed absolute solidarity, to-day we are marching to victory with child endowment, one of the greatest planks of the Labour party's platform about to become, at long last, an accomplished fact. At the same time some disgruntled honorable senators opposite are fighting to the last ditch for the boss. When this scheme is put into operation the boss will find that his staff is more contented ; and the women of this country will bless every member of this Parliament for passing this legislation. We can now afford to forget the recent unfortunate decision of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. We had a long debate on that subject several days ago when I moved the adjournment of the Senate, but we did not get much opposition from honorable senators opposite. Had I been dictating the tactics of the Opposition I should have divided the Senate in order to see exactly whether honorable senators opposite really believe that the present basic wage is adequate. I compliment the Government upon making this measure allembracing. I am delighted  to see  that its benefits will apply to the illegitimate child, the children 'in. our orphanages and the children of some aborigines. All of those children are to share in these benefits; that is a wise decision. I sincerely hope that this allowance will be remitted to mothers through the post. I understand that that will he so. An investigation will show that that system is more efficient and less costly than that under which recipients are obliged to to collect their allowances at post offices, when many mothers would have to walk long distances and suffer irritating delays in long queues. The unfavorable features of that system have been avoided in the payment of widows' pensions in New South Wales. Those pensions are posted to recipients, who thus have not the responsibility of leaving their little ones at home while they go out to collect their pension. That system is easily the more effective and economical. 
I support this measure wholeheartedly. I have always advocated child endowment. I believe that when the clouds of war have cleared away it will be possible to improve this scheme. The Government has done a job which has been long overdue, but which, I again emphasize, will evoke from the workers a recognition of the fact that this national parliament is doing something in the interests of every mother in this community. 
The object of this bill is the greater care and protection of child life. That is as it should be ; but in my opinion the bill does not go far enough in that direction. Possibly, in the light of further experience, it will be improved. The bill has been rendered necessary mainly as the result of a diminishing birth-rate and the imperative need of a greater supply of man-power for our workshops and for the battlefield. We cannot shut our eyes to that fact. The birth-rate has been steadily diminishing, and the advent of war has made imperative a supreme effort on our part if we are to survive this conflict. Intelligent men, regardless of party, realize that to be the position, and have stressed it over and over again. 
The hill will be found, much sooner than many of us imagine, to be inadequate to accomplish the objective we now have in mind. It has been rendered necessary also because of a growing realization that a virile and trained manhood is the nation's greatest asset. The real asset of a country is not money, land, gold, timber, or any other product; the asset which creates all other assets is a virile and trained manhood and womanhood. There is a growing realization of that fact. I feel thankful for it, because it will be followed by what this bill endeavours to do, namely, the provision for greater care to be taken of that valuable national asset. Hitherto, no great effort has been made in that direction. Any one who has read the industrial history of not only Great Britain hut also of Australia, knows of the brutal exploitation of child labour over many years, the criminal neglect of governments in that respect, and the appalling poverty of parents. The Labour party has fought against those evils not for 40 years but for decades. Now we find that a change is taking place. If the population of Australia were as great as that of India, or China, or some other countries, and man-power was as cheap here as it is in those countries, we would not be considering a child endowment scheme to-day. "When conditions change in those countries as the result of the inevitable reactions to exploitation and neglect of poverty, and their birth-rate diminishes to the same degree that it has diminished in Australia, we shall find that the governments of those countries will establish child endowment schemes; in the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  they will make a virtue of necessity. This bill is merely a palliative. Prospective parents have still a vivid memory of the last Great War, the period of comparative prosperity which followed it and the subsequent long period of unprecedented suffering and misery caused by unemployment. On a previous occasion I directed attention to the appointment by the British House of Commons in 1938 of a royal commission to inquire into the conditions under which people live in what are known as the black areas in England. That commis- sion reported that those conditions were not anything like as good as conditions in those areas 50 years ago, and that the slums which had come into existence there as the result of poverty and the aftermath of the last war were as bad as any to be found in Asiatic countries. Those memories are still vivid in the minds of prospective parents, when they think of what is happening to-day. We are now engaged in the greatest war the world has known; it is bound to involve the destruction of millions of lives. Consequently, parents and prospective parents are asking if the aftermath of this war will be similar to that which followed the last war, when promises were made in the names of governments that the world would be made safe for democracy and a place fit for heroes to live in, but the very antithesis occurred. Prospective parents cannot but bear these things in mind. They are wondering whether, as was the case over twenty years ago, this war will be followed by a terrible aftermath. The last war was followed, first, by a period of prosperity while the damage that had been done was being repaired in order to enable countries to carry on. That involved the speeding up of production. I remind honorable senators that wars always cause acceleration, and as a result of this war, vast improvements and extensions are being made, particularly in those secondary industries which are assisting us to make a maximum war effort. At the end of this war we shall find that our industrial development has greatly exceeded that which occurred in pre-war years. Therefore we shall be in a position to increase the productivity of the human unit to a degree far greater than was possible before, but side by side with that progress, we may have, as we have had before,, appalling poverty. Prospective parents cannot study such problems as intelligently, closely and critically, as can honorable senators, but there is that feeling current that the position may not be as the Government says that it will be, but possibly very much worse. Such fears always have a detrimental effect on the birth-rate. A diminished birth-rate always follows from a general feeling of insecurity, doubt and danger. That happened during the last war, and it will occur again. It has now been admitted by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court that the basic wage is insufficient to provide for a family unit of five. We on this side of the chamber have been saying that for many years.  Senator Keane  has emphasized that wages do not represent the value of the wealth produced by the workers either individually or collectively; wages represent the remuneration which is paid in accordance with the influence of the workers in the community. The Labour party has held for years that the present rate is insufficient, and consistent with whatever opportunities we have had, we have brought the matter under the notice of governments and arbitration courts. As Herbert Spencer once said in one of his fine philosophical writings, no one can escape the consequences' of his acts. Regardless of the laws passed, or what is said in Parliament, a government cannot escape the consequences of its acts. Employers are much more concerned in making profits than in the preservation of child life. Although in their own homes, employers may be ideal fathers, in the factories where they control the children of others they ar;e usually the very opposite. At home they do their best for their children; but in the factories they exploit to the limit the children of others. No one can escape the consequences of his acts. Employers have by means of legislation and propaganda victimized those who would organize strikes, and by other means have controlled food, clothing and shelter, which are necessary to maintain and stimulate the birth-rate. Our diminishing birth-rate is the result of such a policy. All these things to which I have referred are in the minds of millions of prospective parents to-day. The Government should take a long-range view, of the position, and try to realize, as I would like it to realize, that the aftermath of this war will be very different from that of the last war. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator must connect his remarks with the subjectmatter of the bill. 
I am endeavouring to point out that fears and uncertainties in the minds of prospective parents will have the effect of restricting the birth-rate. The object of this bill is to assist to increase the birth-rate, if possible, and to provide for greater care and protection of child life. Unless the Government goes as far as it should go in this matter, I am certain that the results which it desires will not be achieved. For example, the school leaving age should be raised. In Victoria, where it is fourteen years, it should be raised at least to sixteen or eighteen years iu order that children may be physically and mentally equipped to engage in the battle of life. To-day, prospective parents are thinking of dead-end occupations and the difficulties of placing children in continuous employment. 
It is a move in the direction of social progress. I du not suggest for a moment that it will not help. What I do say is that it will not. help to the degree that will ultimately be found necessary. I hope that in the light of our immediate experience, the Government will realize that a great deal more should be done. During this war, more so than in the last conflict, we should act up to the Christian maxim that life is sacred. We should provide for the maximum care of our children and we should also provide the maximum facilities for them to be trained. This bill provides for the payment of 5s. a week in respect of all children after the first child. While we admit that that is something, it is, in fact, insufficient. Prices are increasing and will continue to do so. The effect will be a progressive reduction of the purchasing power of the 5s. to be granted. We are prepared to support the Government to a degree, but there is still room for improvement, and a need to add continually to the structure until it is such that child life is as secure as it can possibly be. Children should not be allowed to enter factories until they reach an age at which the work will not affect their health. Our main objective should be the greater care and protection of our child life. If that be provided we in Australia, having opportunities far greater than peoples in other parts of the world, should give a lead to the Empire, so that after the war we can say we have laid the foundations of a future order of society in which unemployment, poverty and misery that have been so prominently associated with our social life in the past, will be unknown. 
I welcome this bill because it does not discriminate between States. For once the people of the eastern States will derive no more benefit under this bill than will those in the less populous States of the Commonwealth. Western Australia will get its share. 
If it does, it is because its representatives fight like tigers. However, this measure cannot arouse State jealousies, and that is one reason why I have pleasure in supporting it. The bill is designed, not only to protect the children of this country, but also to make contented parents. In times gone by we have all seen children living in most depressing circumstances. The 5s. a week which is to be paid in respect of all children in a family after the first child, will make a big difference in almost every home in which there is a family. I am also gratified to find that the bill provides for the payment of the money to be made to the mothers, because if the payments are made in that way, the money is more likely to be used for the benefit of the children. I also support the provision for the cancellation of payments should the children leave this country. I do not know what the position would be should they subsequently return, but I surmise that, as is the case with invalid and old-age pensions, endowment will again foe payable. A regrettable omission is in respect of the exclusion of endowment on the first child of a widow. This measure will be very popular, not only with the families who will benefit, hut also with the trades-people generally, because a greater amount of money will be circulated, and in that way the whole community will derive advantage. The scheme might be amended later to include widows with one child, or the Govern ment might consider introducing a scheme of widows' pensions. I regard the amount of the endowment, 5s. for each child, as insufficient. I should prefer the payment of 5s. for the first child, 6s. for the second and 7s. 6d. for the third and subsequent children. I welcome the bill because I have advocated child endowment for many years. I am pleased that all the States will share in the endowment. 
.- I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of the hill. The need for child endowment reminds me of the following : - 
Father: Du you like your new  sister, Tommy  ? 
Tommy: Yes, she is all right,  but there are  lots of things we needed more. 
The child endowment scheme will assist to relieve the situation in many families, as summed up by Tommy. I believe, with  Senator Cameron,  that the greatest asset of a country is highly skilled and developed man-power. Therefore, there should be linked with child endowment a move to make the school-leaving ege uniform throughout Australia. In most of the States, the school-leaving age is fourteen years, but I consider that it should be made uniform at sixteen years. Child endowment will be paid on account of children under sixteen, years, but the operation of the measure will not prevent a child from going to work at fourteen years. The child's mind is most receptive between the ages of fourteen and sixteen years. Leaving school at fourteen years, children earn more money doing unskilled work than they can earn learning a trade. A boy or girl of fourteen years can get a wage of 4s. or 5s. a day for unskilled work, but learning a skilled trade he or she will be paid a wage of perhaps 2s. 6d. a day. In his book,  The Next Step,  Mr. A.  B. Piddington, K.O., who was  chairman  of the Royal Commission on the Basic Wage, discussed the school-leaving age and quoted from the report of the Royal Commission on Apprenticeship in New South Wales in 1912. The following quotation is taken from that report: - 
In my recent report dealing with factory life, I recommended that the school-leaving age, except in cases of actual necessity, should be raised  from fourteen to sixteen, and this  appears to me both to be the only hope of increasing the readiness of boys and their parents to come back to the ambition of skilled  tradesmanship,  and also to be the only remedy for a serious mischief, which I shall now mention. In most trades, the apprenticeship term being five years, the employers- especially the better class of employers - prefer not to have boys until they are sixteen, when their strength is come on them, and when the five years' time will give the employer the advantage of the apprentice up to the end of his minority, and after he has attained almost full manhood energy . . . 
The motive of the appeal for a uniform school-leaving age is to guide children when leaving school into skilled trades in which they will become craftsmen and real assets of the country. That is most important, because at the present juncture there is a great scarcity of skilled man-power. Child endowment will be of lasting benefit to the community, but I think that the efficacy of the scheme could be improved by the Commonwealth Government bringing pressure to bear on the States to make the school-leaving age sixteen years. I shall conclude with the following quotation from  Mr. Piddington's  book: - 
Progressive minds who study the relation of the sexes are often heard to urge the recognition of women as an independent economic unit. It is unnecessary to go into this wide question, but if the old belief that a nation's greatness may be measured by the status of its womanhood, much remains to be done with regard to working mothers; and their right to child endowment could not fail to increase their importance in the home and also in the community. There is ground for the impression that the wives of the working men, as a result of present social conditions, hare not, speaking generally, the same status in their own circle that wives in more fortunate circumstances enjoy. Nothing but good can come of any policy which increases the respect and influence in the home and in political and social action of these incomparable women. 
I welcome the bill, although I consider that it is many years overdue. It does not contain all that I desire, but I regard it as the most important measure that has been introduced since I became a member of the Senate. Now that a start is being made with child endowment, Parliament will be able to enlarge the scheme in the near future. The Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  stated in his secondsreading speech that the payment of endowment in respect of the first child* was unwarranted. 
That was my interpretation of the words used by the Assistant Minister. He based his argument on the decision of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration that the basic wage is sufficient for the needs of a family unit of a man, his wife and one child. There are tens of thousands of breadwinners in Australia who do not receive the basic wage, and there are thousands whose only income is what they receive in social service payments. These two classes of persons should be entitled to receive child endowment for the first child. There are also the widows left with one dependent child. Their income is probably not one-half of the basic wage, but they will not be entitled to draw child endowment. 
I do not want charity provided for these people. It is true that widows with young children receive charitable allowances under State legislation. I consider that charitable allowances tend to have a demoralizing effect on some people. Although I am grateful to the Government for having introduced the bill, I hope that in the near future the scheme will be extended so as to provide endowment for all children under the age of sixteen years, or at least that payment will be made in respect of one child when the father does not receive the basic wage. Many young married couples are more in need of child endowment when the first child arrives than they are after the birth of the second or third child. When the first child is born they are paying rent and probably meeting time-payment charges on furniture in an effort to establish a home. No doubt the operation of the scheme will give a great stimulus to the birth-rate, which has been steadily declining for some years. We cannot expect people to bring children into the world when they cannot be sure that a means of a livelihood will be available to them. I intend to comment on the criticisms of two or three honorable senators opposite who, I am sure, would have liked to have wrecked the bill. They  argued that child endowment should be paid out of Consolidated Revenue. My answer is that it will be paid out of that fund. Although those honorable senators criticized the method by which the Government intends to raise the bulk of the money required for child endowment, they did not submit an alternative proposal.' The Government has been guided by the advice of experts, who examined various proposals for raising the money required, but they arrived at the conclusion that the only practicable method was a pay-roll tax. The Labour party has not had the assistance of expert advisers, and in this case it is prepared to accept the recommendations of the Government's advisers. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

The Opposition's desire to see child endowment legislation on the statute-book is so great that it accepted the Government's claim that a tax on pay-rolls is the only means by which to raise the money with which to finance the scheme. Industry must be prepared to set aside reserves to provide for the maintenance and replacement of its man-power in the same way as it sets aside reserves for the maintenance and replacement of its plant and equipment. I was amazed at the opposition shown to this legislation in the ranks of the Government's own supporters. Had it not been for the solidarity of the Labour party in support of the Government yesterday when the Pay-roll Tax Bill was before the Senate, I dare say that we should not have had the privilege of debating this measure to-day.For 25 years child endowment has been a plank on the Labour party's platform, but during the last election campaign, when child endowment had a prominent place in the policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin),  members of the Government accused the Labour party of trying to bribe the electors, and said that during a war was not the time for social improvements. I am glad, but a little astonished, that the Government has now come to our way of thinking. This bill does not go so far as I should like, but I welcome it in the hope that, with a further accession of wisdom, the Government will bring down amending legislation in order to include in the benefits first-born children and to strengthen the scheme in ways which have been suggested by members of the Opposition. 
Child endowment will be of great benefit to the present generation of children and mothers, but its full effect will be felt in the future. Improvement of the quality as well as of the number of its people should be the aim of every country. No one would deny that the Australian-born child is our best immigrant. It is imperative, therefore, that the Government should do everything possible to assist in rearing healthy Australian-born children and in fitting them to take a useful place in the community. The approach of honorable senators to this subject has been facilitated by the Parliamentary Librarian,  Mr. Binns,  and his staff, who for our benefit listed the literature of all countries on this subject. I thank the Librarian for what he has done. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear ! 
In the House of Representatives the Minister for Labour and National Service '(Mr. Holt), who had charge of the bill, gave the history of social and industrial legislation. A beginning was made in the House of Commons in 1795 by Pitt the younger, but practically nothing was done until the end of the last century and the beginning of this century, although legislation forbidding the employment of children in factories was passed in 1834. In many countries, systems of child endowment are in force. The Russian scheme is not compulsory, but it consists in the State taking charge of and rearing the children. The objection to such a system is that the children are removed from parental control and are deprived of the filial love that has such an important bearing on their upbringing. All will admit that in social and industrial legislation Australia leads the world. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.No, but we still lead the world and that is something of which we should be proud. Our arbitration system provides a reasonable standard of living, but experience has shown that we cannot rely on it to assist in the rearing of children in the way that they should be reared, especially if the family be large. Statistics show that practically half of our adult population refuse or are unable to assume the responsibilities of matrimony. In those circumstances irb is impossible to compute a wage which would satisfy the needs of everybody. Children are our greatest asset and their birth must he encouraged. For that reason I am prepared to support the bill which is now before the Senate. My principal regret is that the Government neglected to tate this opportunity to overhaul the whole of our industrial and social legislation. What a splendid opportunity this would have been to end the controversy over the basic wage! Since its inception the Commonwealth Arbitration Court has whittled down the basis on which it computes the basic wage from a family unit of seven, consisting of a man, his wife and five children, to the unit of three, consisting of a man, his wife and one child, but the basis is by no means pegged. That is one aspect of wage fixation that should, be settled. Another aspect .is the conflict between the decisions of the Commonwealth and State arbitration courts. We have seven parliaments each of which is supposed to be the master of those for whom it legislates, but they are powerless to restrain unions from using the Commonwealth court. 
Whatever be the remedy it should be applied. Honorable senators will make their own deductions from the unequivocal statement by a judge of the Queensland Arbitration Court when he fixed the basic wage in that State and when he said that the Commonwealth child endowment scheme was not considered. I have no doubt that the judge knows his own business and that he was right, but it appears that this social legislation will involve Australia in the expenditure of £13,000,000 per annum and that within a short period expenditure will be further increased by another £20,000,000 as the result of determinations by the Arbitration Court. These anomalies should have been removed before child endowment was introduced. Australian parliaments have laid down so many laws relating to the welfare of the industrial sections of the community that departmental officers either cannot  intrepret  them intelligently, and if they do other officers disagree with their interpretation. 
Dissatisfaction has been expressed regarding the method by which this scheme is to be financed. No doubt a good method has been chosen by the Government, and it is equally certain that the cost will be passed on by those who will be required to contribute the tax. Taxation has already reached a very high level in Australia and this year many employers will find it necessary to meet the pay-roll tax, not out of profit, but out of capital. I have some sympathy with manufacturers and distributors who will claim that the child endowment tax is an impost upon them, because they will be paying tax to provide for the children of persons who are in some cases much better off than themselves. Child endowment should be determined on a salary or wage basis, and on a graduated scale. It should apply to the first child, and the payment should increase as the number of children increases. The argument has been advanced that it would be difficult to determine the amount of child endowment to be paid on a salary or wage basis ; but I claim that, since a formula has been evolved for the fixation of the basic wage, it should be possible by means of the same formula to decide at what wage or salary a man should be able to maintain his own family. An argument used against that contention was that it would require more to finance that scheme and to employ the necessary staff for the job, than the extra money that might be raised would be worth. To my mind, that argument is grossly exaggerated. Considering that the adult population of Australia is about 4,500,000, and that the public servants throughout Australia number nearly 400,000 - there is about one public servant to every twelve persons in the community - the statistical position should be fairly well tabulated and annotated. 
No; I merely say that it should not be difficult to knock over the Aunt Sally that has been erected. So closely are the affairs of citizens investigated by public servants, that, a short while ago, a gentleman whom I know, whose income runs into four figures, and who, unfortunately, overlooked the fact that he had received interest to the amount of 24s. on a sum which he had in a savings bank account, was requested by the taxation authorities to include that interest in his income tax return. 
We have been told that the financial basis of this legislation is temporary, and that eventually the payments under it may have to be taken from Consolidated Revenue. That is the source from which I contend the money required should be raised from the outset. If all classes are to reap the advantages of child endowment, they should all help to pay for the' scheme. Spinsters and 'bachelors should be taxed on a graduated scale. The present basic wage is stated by the court to be sufficient for a man, his wife and one child, and, therefore, I see no reason why bachelors and spinsters should not contribute to this tax. The people of Australia are now being taxed to the limit, and it will be necessary to explore fresh avenues by which revenue can be raised. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B.  Hayes). - The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The bill provides that child endowment shall he payable to aborigines and halfcastes if they are living under conditions comparable with those of the people of Australia generally, but it will be difficult to ascertain the nature of their living conditions. In South Australia there are two aboriginal mission stations, and I think that the total loss incurred by them is £12,000 a year. The .birth-rate is increasing rapidly among aborigines and half-castes, and their inclusion in the scheme will prove costly. 
I have always been a sincere advocate of child endowment. I welcome this measure, and I hope that on a future occasion amendments on the lines that I have indicated will be embodied in the statute. 
I wish to associate myself with the passage of this epoch-making legislation. It is a most amazing measure, owing to the source from which it springs. The reactionary parties which are now in office, and have been in power for many years, have brought down a measure which one would have expected from the Labour party. Certainly the war has revealed strange bed-fellows. In Europe we find Mussolini and Hitler cheek by jowl, and in the United States of America  President  Roosevelt is seen walking arm-in-arm with his opponent,  Mr. Willkie.  In Great Britain Labour and Capital are also walking together. In the last twenty years the United Australia party and the Country party have produced legislative results of a negative character, but war-time conditions have now forced the Government to recognize the claims of wageearners on the bottom rung of the social ladder. I am almost inclined to forgive honorable senators opposite for their past political sins, in view of the splendid job they have done in introducing this child endowment scheme. I congratulate the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr. Holt)  who was in charge of the measure in the House of Representatives. I had an opportunity to read his second-reading speech, and I mention, incidentally, that no such opportunity was afforded to me in this chamber. The Minister surveyed social conditions in Australia, and his address was an acceptable addition to the collection of notable speeches made in this Parliament. This measure constitutes an important step. in the right direction, but, until the Government deals effectively with the problem that arises from the need for an increased population in Australia, it will have only half performed its task. European dictators have offered various inducements to the people of their respective countries to increase the population. Marriage loans and other inducements have been offered, and the populations of those countries have increased by leaps and bounds. But here in Australia, where one would expect the population to increase normally, we find that during the last ten years, mainly because the standard of living has been allowed to decline, our vital statistics have become most disturbing indeed. If, in supplementation of child endowment, the Government approaches the problem of the birth-rate with a view to encouraging, first, early marriages, and, secondly, the rearing of large families, it will do much to retain power. This is the kind of legislation which the Labour party wishes to see placed on the statute-book. Personally, I do not care which party initiates it. In fact, if this Government brings down more legislation of this kind the need for the Labour party might disappear altogether. I give that tip to the Government. 
 Like honorable senators generally, I am pleased that this measure has been introduced and I am sure that it will be given as easy a passage through this chamber as it had through the House of Representatives. I also look forward to the day  when it will be possible to provide child endowment in respect of the first child in a family, and also when this problem will be tackled as a national responsibility by making it solely a charge upon Consolidated Revenue. I take this opportunity to remove a misapprehension on the part of some honorable senators opposite. From the moment this scheme was suggested not the slightest danger has existed that any section of the parties forming this Government would obstruct this measure. Consequently, any suggestion to the contrary is most unfair. If a difference of opinion has arisen among government supporters in connexion with this bill it arose solely in respect of the method by which child endowment should be financed. I, myself, would prefer that the scheme be financed solely from Consolidated Revenue, without any aid in the form of a pay-roll tax. In the present changed circumstances of the world, all of us, regardless of party, must realize the necessity for doing everything we can in order to preserve democracy and our freedom. We want to retain those things because they are so necessary to our well-being and happiness. The welfare of our children, and the future and prosperity of our country are as vital as is any other factor to the greatness of this young nation. There fore, after the present great menace has disappeared from the world's horizon, all parties must take their faith in their hands, and, regardless of cost, do what is right in order to establish better conditions in this country. 
Several days ago I received a telegram from a friend of mine, who is the father of eleven children, all of whom are under the age of sixteen years. Under this scheme an extra  £2 10s.  a week will be added to that family's income. Undoubtedly that father has earned this benefit, which will now enable him to meet many obligations which he has hitherto been unable to meet. He informed me that he had been badly dunned by people to whom he owed money. Consequently, he is happy to think that he will now be in a position to feed and clothe his children and. to meet his obligations. That is also the point of view of thousands of other fathers in this country. Those of us who have had to struggle for a crust know very well that an extra few shillings makes towards happiness in a home, especially where there are a number of children. On the other hand there are the gentlemen who have been sending us telegrams protesting against the method by which it is proposed to finance this scheme. They were not opposed to the scheme itself. Personally, I am not very worried about them, because I know very well that the cost will be passed on. As the result of this scheme there will be a gain to the workers, although it will not he so great as those who wholeheartedly support the measure imagine. I believe that the workers in the aggregate will not gain very much. Indeed, when we allow for the increased cost of living which must take place during the next twelve months, it is questionable whether the workers as an economic class will gain anything at all. However, it will mean a gain to those workers who have children. In the past, political parties have found it very difficult to face the task of introducing child endowment. Many honorable senators opposite have contended that the single man should be asked to provide the aid needed by the married man in order to support his  children. Naturally, that proposal was bitterly opposed by those who were to be taxed; therefore, political parties, which depended very largely on the votes of single men, have hitherto declined to carry out a project of that kind. The effect of this scheme will be that whilst single workers will still only be able to purchase what they can now afford to buy, married workers will receive, in addition to their present wages, the allowances to be paid under this scheme. I do not say that that is wrong. If we face the position frankly, we must admit that we should deal with human beings at least as sensibly as, say, a man would deal with his cattle. If a man owns a larger number of cattle than his neighbour, he makes provision for the additional number. However, society has hitherto refused to provide food, clothing and shelter for those families numerically greater than others. It has so far insisted that married men should be paid only the same wage as the single men. Now, as this legislation shows, we recognize that it is right and just that a greater income should be received by parents with children than by single men. 
Some theoreticians contend that legislation of this kind makes for the servile State, whilst others claim that it brings us nearer to the co-operative or socialistic commonwealth. Personally, I believe that this bill has been forced upon the economic ruling class of this country, because it is essential, in order to placate the workers and keep them in a state of quiescence, to afford them some relief in the difficulties which confront them. In war-time, as  Senator Cameron  has so ably pointed out, the dominant economic classes of society are prepared to bring about these reforms, although they would not dream of doing so in peace-time. We know that in a time of war the minds of men tend to become plastic, and it is then possible to bring about reforms which cannot be effected in a time of peace. When on the one hand social conditions are normal, the people as a whole are inclined to be conservative. At the same time vested interests exercise tremendous power and it is very difficult to secure reforms of this character. On the other hand, in a time of war governments generally are more than ready to do something of this kind, because they recognize that such reforms are long overdue, and, in any case, are essential in order to pacify the people and give them to understand that capitalist democracy is capable of such reforms. I hope that this legislation is an earnest indication of further social reforms, in respect of unemployment and widows' pensions. If we are to convince the people that a capitalist democracy is capable of looking after them as effectively as totalitarian governments, it is incumbent upon this Government not to rest on its oars but to introduce further reforms of this kind. I hope that the Government, should it remain in power, will continue this good work, and accepting the ideas of  Senator Darcey,  and those who support him, will utilize means other than taxation to finance such reforms. I feel convinced that circumstances will compel such reforms. I am very pleased to note that honorable senators opposite have abandoned their psychological outlook of a few years ago. I recall that when legislation to provide relief for the unemployed was introduced .into the Queensland Parliament political colleagues of honorable senators opposite described that measure as the "Loafers' Paradise Bill". In addition, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  pointed out last night, the maternity allowance established by the late  Mr. Andrew  Fisher was described by a predecessor of honorable senators opposite as a sop to profligacy. A few years ago men who hold the Tory view-point of honorable senators opposite were bitterly opposed to all kinds of social reform. I speak from long experience as a union organizer. I know the attitude that was taken up only a short while ago by employers of labour generally, and supporters of honorable senators opposite,. on all such matters. I am pleased to learn that, even at this late stage, there is a recognition of the rights of the mothers and the children of this country, and I trust that as a result of constant agitation and pressure by honorable senators on this side of the chamber the Government will, in the near future, take steps to supplement this necessary social reform. 
The Government appears to me to have laid a very popular legislative egg. The question which now arises seems to me to he whether responsibility for the production of this egg belongs to the other side or to this side of the chamber. The expressions of opinion that have fallen from the lips of honorable senators opposite during the day have convinced me that the cackle which we heard was not really an expression of what honorable senators actually thought. However, the hope that I have to express in regard to this very important egg is that it will prove fertile. Senators Keane, Cameron, and several others directed attention to the fact that, for many years, nothing was done in these legislative halls to bring about this necessary reform, to which all parties in this chamber subscribe. Why? The party of which  Senator Keane  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  are such distinguished ornaments held office from 1912 until 1918 in both branches of this legislature, and did nothing in this direction. The BrucePage Government had the subject investigated, hut had to stay its hand because the proposal then contemplated was said to be beyond the constitutional power of this Parliament. All parties support this bill in principle. We are placing in the bands of the mothers of this country power to do great good, and it is our responsibility to see that our legislative efforts are not frustrated. A heavy burden rests upon the Government to see that this legislation does not fail as did other important social legislation within recent years. That legislation would also have been of great benefit to the community. The Leader of the Opposition made a passing reference to an inquiry into certain constitutional matters by a royal commission presided over by a fellow barrister of mine in South Australia. The opinion expressed by that commission has been confirmed by such distinguished jurists as  Sir Edward  Mitchell,  Mr. Justice  Owen Dixon, and the present honorable member for Barton  (,Mr. Evatt).  It appears to me that this is an opportunity to obtain some reform in that regard. All shades of political opinion are represented in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, and I think that it devolves upon this Government, the leader of which is no mean constitutional authority, to see that this is not an empty gesture. The State parliaments could give to this Parliament certain additional powers, and I believe they should do so. It would be most unfortunate for this Parliament and for the people generally if the State legislatures declined to do so. This aspect of the matter apparently has not been ignored in the House of Representatives, but in this chamber little or nothing has been said concerning it. I cannot let this bill pass without impressing upon the Government the necessity to get something done. There was never a better opportunity than the present to do so, because to-day in our tremendous war effort all parties are in complete harmony. When this measure 'becomes law it will clear up much of the unrest that exists at present and to a degree - I wish to be clearly understood on this point - it will put our wage system on a slightly better basis than it is at present. As I stated previously this matter is inextricably related to our wage system, and any failure would bring about a state of confusion in this respect in this country which I hesitate to contemplate. 
If I understood  Senator A.  J. McLachlan aright  he  anticipates certain constitutional difficulties involving the passage of legislation by the State parliaments. In view of that possibility, and of the fact that the result might be inability to give effect to this legislation, consideration should be given to motives which may possibly be behind the introduction of this measure. Why should a government that has always ignored the humane side of our social life suddenly decide to introduce a measure such as this? Provided that there are two children or more in a family this measure may be regarded as supplementary to the basic wage. We must then consider the marital condition of the adult male population throughout this country. We find that 60 per cent, of our male population is married and the remaining 40 per cent, single. Of the 60 per cent., 40 per cent. have no children at all. Therefore we find that children numbering 1,800,000 are actually spread amongst very few people. I recall that on one occasion as a commissioner on the Board of Trade I participated in the fixing of a basic wage in New South "Wales. When we were on the eve of making a declaration in regard to the basic wage figures showed a minimum wage of £3 16s. and a maximum of £4 2s. When it became known to the public, the Holman Government, on the night of the 10th October, 1919, introduced a measure similar to that now before the Senate and passed it in one sitting. Obviously, the object was to prevent the employers in New South Wales from having to pay an increase of the basic wage of from £2 18s. 6d. to £3 17s. An extra ls. a week would have represented an increase of £1,000,000 a year in the wages bill of employers, and the whole basic wage position would have been disturbed. The bill introduced by the Holman Government went to the Legislative Council, which was then comprised almost entirely of Tory representatives, and the council referred the bill to a select committee presided over by the late  Sir Joseph  Carruthers. 
Order! The honorable senator must discuss the bill. 
 in reply  - I thank honorable senators for the kindly way in which they have received the bill. Neither I nor other members of the Government desire to take any credit for the introduction of the measure. Members of this chamber and the people whom we represent outside are united in an effort to place child endowment on a proper basis. Most of the criticism directed at the bill has been non-party, but occasionally in the debate the old Adam of political bias has obtruded. I deprecate such obtrusion. I think that all of us can take credit for possessing the ordinary human emotions and desire that the children of this country shall have the best chance possible to become useful citizens.  Senator Keane  commented on the method of paying the endowment. This question has caused the Government much concern, and it has been investigated from every angle. The Government has no objection to mothers having the endowment money paid into their savings bankaccount. If they wish the endowment to accumulate for, say, three months or six months, they may adopt that method. The Government will take every precaution to ensure that the mothers' convenience will be studied in making the payments. The Government's only concern will be that the money is paid to the mothers entitled to receive it and that it is used properly. Many mothers may desire to allow the endowment money to accumulate for some years for the purpose of providing a fund for the higher education of their children when they complete their primary education. No slur will be cast on any mother. If a mother does not want to call at a post office to collect the endowment, she may authorize the money to be paid into her savings bank account.I was intrigued by the statement of  Senator Keane  that the boss has all his sympathy. The only senator who caused me some sorrow was .  Senator Cameron,  who is prone to paint doleful pictures. 
If the honorable senator painted a bright picture, then his favorite colour is black.  Senator Lamp  advocated the introduction of a uniform school-leaving age throughout Australia, but I would point out that the Commonwealth Government has no right to interfere with the State governments in that matter, because the fixation of the schoolleaving age is entirely within their province. With reference to the comments of honorable senators regarding the basic wage, the Government has indicated to the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration the standard family unit for which the court must have regard when determining the basic wage.During the last 25 years the size of the standard family unit has varied. Now the court will be relieved of considerable worry, because the unit will be indicated by the Government.  Senator Abbott  said that he wanted child endowment to be made a national responsibility. I do not think that it can be described as other than a national responsibility. 
Actually, the whole of the money will come out of Consolidated Revenue. Succeeding governments will be bound by the act to raise the money required for the operation of the scheme.  Senator Arthur  gave the impression that families in the country districts are smaller than those in the cities. From my experience, I should say that on the average, families in the country districts are 25 per cent, larger than families in the cities. The honorable senator also stated that very few families would benefit from child endowment. I would point out that the 1,800,000 children in Australia have 800,000 parents; therefore a very large number of families will benefit. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Administration). 
.- Does the Government intend to set up a new department to administer the child endowment scheme or will it he administered by the pensions department? 
It is not the Government's intention to establish a new department, and it would not he politic to do so, when there is already functioning a department experienced in the payment of pensions, allowances and the like. A special officer will be placed in charge of the administration of the act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 29 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The bill provides for an amendment of the Raw Cotton Bounty Act of 1940 which has become necessary because of serious disturbances in the world markets for raw cotton and their effect on the incomes of raw cotton producers in Queensland. In the Raw Cotton Bounty Act 1940 provision was made for payment of a bounty to those engaged in the production of raw cotton in Australia. Had the industry been able to continue normally, there would have been no need for the introduction of the bill, but the effect of the wide fluctuations of the price of cotton have reduced the income of cottongrowers in Queensland. The introduction of the bill is appreciated by the 4,000 cotton-growers in that State. Associated with the bounty bill passed last year was an understanding between the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments that the industry was to be stabilized on a basis which would be of lasting benefit not only to the industry itself, but also to Queensland and the whole of Australia. So far the condition of the cotton-growing industry has not been satisfactory.. Efficiency demands improved cultural methods. To that end the Queensland Government has agreed to expend  about  £750,000 on the provision of irrigation and other services. It is anticipated that irrigation and the use of fertilizers will improve both the yield and the quality of the crop. In order that Parliament may keep a close eye on the development of this industry the Government should ensure that it is efficiently policed and that periodical reports are made to Parliament concerning the progress that is being made. The Queensland Government is sincere in its efforts to stabilize the industry, and, if the Commonwealth Government co-operates with it, permanent benefit should accrue. It is necessary that the industry be protected in every way possible. It is one of the few primary industries of this country which is not dependent on overseas markets. As against that, however, Queensland growers have to accept for their product world parity which is much below their cost of production. In the circumstances the Government is justified in paying them a bounty which will raise their returns sufficiently high to enable them to operate profitably. This measure, which is designed to ensure that the purpose of the bounty bill passed last year will be fulfilled, will, therefore, be welcomed by the growers, especially since, encouraged by that legislation to expand their operations, they have increased the acreage under cotton from 40,000 to 80,000 acres or by 100 per cent. The bounty has also had the effect of increasing the number of growers from 2,000 to 4,000. Honorable senators must realize the importance of the cottongrowing industry to this country. 
I support what was said by  Senator Courtice.  Subsidies are often unsatisfactory, but the bounty provided in the Raw Cotton Bounty Act, and in this bill, will assist the development of the cottongrowing industry at a time when other primary industries are languishing owing to an absence of markets. The cotton-growing industry in Australia, fortunately, is not dependent on overseas sales, and it is therefore capable of great expansion. Admittedly the development of the cotton-growing industry runs contrary to the ideals of many Country party parliamentarians, because it is a trend towards self-sufficiency. The Labour party is not scared of self-sufficiency. It believes that Australia's requirements of cotton should be grown in Australia. In 1940 Australia's cotton-spinners required 60,000 bales of raw cotton lint, an increase of 100 per cent, on their requirements for 1939, and the estimated requirements for 1941 total 100,000 bales. During the year ended the 30th June, 1940, Australia produced 5,661 bales of raw cotton lint, and the seed cotton received at ginneries totalled 8,605,496 lb., from which 2,819,467 lb. of lint was ginned. Even to the extent of providing money free of interest for ten years the Queensland Government has encouraged cotton farmers to develop their industry. In 1940-41, 1,185 applications for advances were made by settlers, compared with 788 in 1939-40. The Government's developmental programme includes the conservation of water for irrigation in the cotton-growing areas of the Callide and Dawson valleys. There is room for greater co-operation between the Queensland Government and the Commonwealth Government in the development of the cotton-growing industry. A necessary step is the provision by the Commonwealth Government of a guaranteed price in order that the growers shall not be dependent each year On a bounty. That is something for the future; meanwhile, the bounty provides a very necessary encouragement to the growers to continue in production, and I am pleased that the Government has decided to assist an industry the value of which to Australia will be as great in peace-time as it is now. 
I congratulate the Government upon having anticipated a request from the Cotton-growers for further assistance 'by bringing down this bill. This legislation will assure the growers that they may carry on safely. Unlike many other primary industries, the cotton-growing industry is not dependent on overseas markets. Australia's requirements of cotton are sufficiently great to enable the industry to expand enormously. Last year production totalled 8,000 bales, whereas this year the crop is estimated to yield about 15,000 bales. Our annual consumption of cotton totals 70,000 bales, but one would be rash to estimate what that consumption will be a year or two hence in view of the immense requirements of cotton in the war industries. The increased market for cotton is a development of the war. Another development of the war, however, is a reduction of the value of the bounty which was passed last year. Unless this bill be passed, owing to the closing down of the Liverpool Cotton Exchange, on the prices of which the bounty was computed, and the huge carry-over of cotton and consequent slump of cotton prices to about 2d. sterling per lb. in the United States of America and in other American countries the growers will suffer. Honorable senators realize that under white labour conditions in Queensland . we cannot hope to grow cotton at such low prices. It has become necessary, therefore, that the Commonwealth Government assure those engaged in the production of - cotton that for a number of years they shall have a stable price which will encourage them to stay in the industry, and induce others to forsake other pursuits in favour of cotton-growing. Under the assistance given by the Government of Queensland the industry in that State has made great progress in the last twelve months. Scientific methods of production have been applied and the State Government has made available instructors who give their assistance to growers in the best methods of sowing and cultivation. I am confident that within a few years the cotton industry will be one of the largest primary industries in Australia. The market is available and we can manufacture the finished article. There is no reason, therefore, why we should not expand our cotton-growing industry to such a degree that it will be able to supply the whole of our needs. If that bedone there will be a great field of employment for our people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Trade agreements such as that provided for under this measure are highly desirable, and I hope that with the passage of time more of them will be completed, to the mutual benefit of the contracting parties. As a bargain has already been entered into with Southern Rhodesia, the Senate must either ratify the agreement as it stands or reject it. Tb,e Opposition intends to accept the agreement as  a  whole, because it believes that such agreements promote good international relations. The agreement discloses a degree of reciprocity between the contracting parties which is admirable. Australia takes very little risk of losing under the agreement, and it has a good opportunity to derive much advantage from it. Tobacco is the principal commodity involved. The Scullin Government made a brave and successful attempt to improve the tobacco-growing industry in Australia, as a result of which a great expansion of the industry occurred. A radical alteration was brought about when the late  Sir Henry  Gullett delivered a smashing attack on the industry, and caused it a considerable amount of difficulty. 
This agreement grants to producers of Southern Rhodesian tobacco a preference of 9d. per lb., as against tobacco imported from other countries. This preference will not seriously affect the Australian industry. Probably the agreement will, to some extent, be pleasing to the tobacco combine, but, having regard to the healthy condition of the industry in Queensland, and the fact that no difficulty is experienced in disposing of the whole of the Australian leaf, I think that the possibility of injury to the local industry is remote. Whilst we cannot expect a twoway bargain to operate only in one direction, we hope that the arrangement will not affect the local industry detrimentally. When the measure was under consideration in the House of Representatives, no opposition was expressed to it, and I trust that it will be agreed to by the Senate unanimously. 
Although the bill requires the ratification of this Parliament, and cannot be amended, I should like the Minister  (Senator Leckie)  to tell us what the affect of the measure will be on the Australian tobacco industry, and, particularly, on the industry in Western Australia. I realize that agreements of this kind are reciprocal, but I trust that there will not be a repetition of the position that arose in connexion with the tobacco industry in Western Australia on a former occasion. 
 in reply  - Honorable senators opposite need not be apprehensive as to the effect that this measure may have upon the local tobacco industry, because the interests of the growers are to be protected. The present production of Australian leaf now totals only 5,500,000 lb. and the total consumption is about 26,500,000 lb. Therefore an excellent market is available for the whole of the Australian leaf that can be produced, and there is little danger of injury to the local industry. The price of Australian leaf is now 25 per cent, higher than formerly, and the effect of this legislation may even be to assist the local industry. The lowest duties at which Southern Rhodesian leaf would be imported would be 4s. 3d. per lb. for the manufacture of tobacco, and 6s. 5d. per lb. for the manufacture of cigarettes. These rates will apply only if the Southern Rhodesian leaf is used in conjunction with the prescribed minimum percentages of Australian leaf. Failing incorporation with the required quantity of Australian leaf, duties of 5s. 9d. and 7s. lOd. per lb. respectively will be chargeable. As the price of Australian leaf will be about 2s. 6d. per lb. this year, there is no danger of its being displaced by imported leaf. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I have perused this short machinery bill, which is necessary in order to overcome certain technical difficulties arising from the fact that the Civil Aviation Board has ceased to exist. The Opposition will support the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is an amendment of section 8 of the Air Force Act 1923-39 relating to the non-applioation of the Superannuation Act to members of the Air Force appointed or enlisted after the 3rd September, 1939, solely for service in time of war. Section 8 was inserted in the Air Force Act 1923-38 by the Air Force Act 1939, and this amendment of that section is designed to make it clear that officers and airmen appointed or enlisted in the Air Force for the duration of the war and any period thereafter shall also be excluded from the operation of the Superannuation Act. That effect was intended when section 8 was originally introduced into the act in 1939, but it was subsequently found that it did not completely cover all classes of personnel enlisted for service during the war. The short amendment proposed in this bill will correct the position. Honorable senators will appreciate that the 
Superannuation Act is an act designed primarily to provide superannuation pensions to servants of the Crown on their retirement, and that the Superannuation Fund was not intended to be applied in granting pensions to members of the Air Force who were enlisted solely for war service. Pensions payable in respect of cases of death or invalidity of members of the Air Force who are appointed or enlisted solely for war service will be governed by the provisions of the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act 1920-40. 
Like some of the preceding bills which we have just dealt with, and those to follow, this measure is simple. Its purpose is to prevent the Superannuation Act from applying to airmen, and certain officers of the Royal Australian Air Force, because they are covered by the Australian Soldiers.' Repatriation Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to provide £10,000,000 out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the payment of war pensions. This is one of the recurring measures periodically submitted to Parliament for the purpose of appropriating an amount from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for payment into a trust account to enable pensions to be paid therefrom at the rates already approved by Parliament. The total amount appropriated by Parliament to date for this purpose is £165,000,000, and the balance of this appropriation now remaining is sufficient only to meet pension payments to the end of the present financial year. Although Parliament is being asked to approve the appropriation of £10,000,000 which is the usual amount appropriated, this sum will not be withdrawn from revenue immediately. Payments from revenue to the trust account are made only periodically as it becomes necessary to meet the payments to pensioners. This bill relates to pensions arising out of both the 1914-18 war and the present war. The basis of payment of war pensions has already been established by Parliament and this measure merely approves the provision of funds for the purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining  stages without  amendment  or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to appropriate £19,000,000 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the payment of invalid and old-age pensions. This measure is similar to those submitted to Parliament periodically for the purpose of appropriating an amount from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for payment into a trust account to enable pensions to be paid at rates already approved by Parliament. The total amount appropriated to date for this purpose is £257,000,000 and the balance of this appropriation now remaining is sufficient only to meet pension payments to the 31st May, 1941. Although Parliament is being asked to approve the appropriation of £19,000,000, which is approximately one year's expenditure, this amount will not be withdrawn from Consolidated Revenue immediately. Revenue is only drawn upon for payment to the trust account as required to enable pension payments to be made as they become due. This bill has no relation to the rates or conditions under which invalid and old-age pensions are paid, but merely approves the provision of funds for that purpose. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - " 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The shortage of shipping space caused by war conditions has curiously affected the Australian wine industry in that it is no longer able to ship its surplus production to the United Kingdom. The position of the industry has caused the Australian Wine Board, and other organizations associated with it, grave concern, and recently the Government gave the board authority to use the funds collected under the Wine Grapes Charges Act for the purpose of publicity work within the Commonwealth in an effort to reduce the surplus. It has been found that the Wine Grapes Charges Act, which was passed in 1929 in order to provide funds to enable the Wine Overseas Marketing Board, now designated the Australian Wine Board, to carry out its functions under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act, does not cover grapes used in the manufacture of brandy. That act provides for the imposition of a levy, upon the owner of a winery or distillery handling not less than 10 tons of grapes, in respect of all fresh and dried grapes delivered for use in the manufacture of wine, or in the making of spirit for the purpose of fortifying wine. When that legislation was being drafted, it seems to have been understood that the words " grapes used in the manufacture of wine or in the making of spirit for the purpose of fortifying wine " would, in their application to the levies "prescribed be taken to include brandy grapes. The legal opinion does not support that view, but, on the contrary, points out that although brandy is obtained by the distillation of grape wine, the various processes involved in the manufacture of grapes into wine for the purpose of producing brandy are merely parts of the process of producing brandy and, therefore, as the act now stands, the levy cannot be imposed on any grapes delivered for use in the manufacture of brandy. It must not be overlooked, however, that the manufacture of wine and brandy is closely allied and that frequently brandy spirit is used for the for'tification of wine. All advantages aris ing as the result of the disposal of the exportable surplus of Australian wine are shared by all interests concerned in wine production, and any difficulties which arise from over-production of wine and consequent inability to dispose of the surplus, react to the same extent on brandy-makers as on wine-makers. In consequence of this position, the Australian Wine Board has recommended that the Wine Grape Charges Act be amended to provide that the levy applicable to grapes for wine and fortifying spirit shall also apply to grapes for brandy. The bill now before the Senate has been framed to give effect to that recommendation. It has also been noticed that some producers are converting their grapes into a concentrated grape juice and are holding this juice for manufacture later into wine either in Australia if occasion demands, or overseas, if export opportunities arise. In order that there may be no doubt in the matter, it is desired that the law should state clearly that grapes used in the manufacture of this concentrated grape juice are subject to levy on the same basis as those used in the production of wine. During the past five seasons, the annual output of grape brandy has averaged 427,000 proof gallons. It would be difficult to arrive at the precise quantity of fresh grapes necessary to produce that quantity of spirit, but it can be taken that approximately 15,000 tons ' would be involved. The revenue received under the Wine Grapes Charges Act has averaged £9,000 per annum over the past five financial years. If the provisions of the act be extended, as is now proposed, an additional revenue to the board of approximately £1,850 can be anticipated. The actual rates at present imposed are  - fresh grapes 2 s. 6d. a ton, dried grapes 7s. 6d. a ton, which represent only 50 per cent, of the maximum levy permissible under the act. In the administration of the present act difficulties have arisen in some instances in assessing the amount of levy payable owing to some wine makers and distillers being unable to state with any degree of certainty what quantities of spirits have been used in the fortification of wine and the production of brandy respectively. The suggested amendment will remove that disability. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to ensure that the duties set out in the customs tariff resolutions of the 21st November and the 11th December, 1940, shall operate until Parliament has had an opportunity to ratify them. The collection of duties under the resolutions is valid only until the 21st May and the 11th June, respectively, and it is considered advisable to validate collections until the 3rd July to allow reasonable time for Parliament to deal with them. It is not proposed at this juncture to discuss the tariff schedule item by item. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is incidental to the Customs Tariff Validation Bill and proposes to validate until the 3rd July, 1941, the exchange adjustment alterations made by the Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Proposals of the 11th December, 1940. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the measure is to amend sections 8, 48 and 72 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1940. Under section 8 of that act it is provided that the act shall not apply,  inter alia,  to any person employed solely in the Naval or Military Forces. It is considered desirable to extend this provision to include persons employed solely in the Air Force, and clause 3 of the bill provides accordingly. The extension is owing to the development of the air section of the Defence Forces. Clause 4 contains a proposed amendment of section 48 of the principal act, which provides for prior government service of an officer as specified to be reckoned as service in the Commonwealth PublicService. With regard to paragraph  a  of this clause, the principal act provides that where a person becomes an officer of the CommonwealthService and his service in the Commonwealth Service is continuous with,  inter alia,  permanent service in the Police Force of the Territory for the Seat of Government, his prior service in that force shall be reckoned as service in the Commonwealth Service. The amendment provides for the substitution of the words " Australian Capital Territory", the name by which that Territory is now known, in lieu of the words " Territory for the Seat of Government". Paragraph c of clause 4 will place members of the Air Force on the same footing as members of the Naval and Military Forces in regard to the counting of prior service in cases where they are appointed to the Commonwealth Service. Paragraph  d  provides for the insertion in section 48 of the act of a new sub-paragraph  e,  in order to cover the cases of officers appointed to the Commonwealth Service from the permanent staffs of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Repatriation Commission, War Service Homes Commission, and the High Commissioner's Office, London. Officers employed with these bodies were accorded superannuation rights and eligibility for furlough by Parliament in 1937, and it has been represented to the Government that, in view of the status thus conferred, steps should be taken to ensure that should any such officer be appointed to the Commonwealth Service without any break in his employment, his service with the former body shall be regarded as service in the Commonwealth Public Service for purposes of furlough and sick leave. The Government considers it equitable that this provision should be inserted in the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 
No alteration is being made ofthe existing practice governing eligibility for appointment tothe Commonwealth Public Service of officers of the Commonwealth bodies mentioned above, but it is felt desirable to provide that any officer actually appointed to the Commonwealth Public Service from any one of the bodies mentioned shall carry with him the credit of his permanent service with the former body provided there is no break in continuity. 
Proposed new sub-paragraphf is to provide for the counting of prior service in the case of an officer of any of the bodies mentioned in the proposed new subparagraph e who is appointed to an administrative or executive office in connexion with any of those bodies, for example, as a repatriation commissioner, and subsequently, without break in service, is appointed to a position under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 
The addition of proposed new subparagraph  g  is necessary consequent on the passing of the Supply and Development Act of 1939. The purpose of the amendment is to confer on persons employed permanently underthe Supply and Development Act rights similar to those conferred by section 48 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act on persons employed permanently in a civil capacity in the Department of . Defence under the Defence Act. Under paragraph c of sub-section 1 of section 48 the prior service of such a person in the Department of Defence, who, without any break of employment, becomes an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service, is reckoned as service in the Commonwealth Public Service for the purpose of furlough and sick leave. As many persons previously employed permanently in a civil capacity under the Defence Ad are now in the Department of Supply and Development, it is considered desirable to extend the provisions of section 48 to them. Paragraphs  b, e  andf effect consequential variations of section 48 of the acceptanceof the other amendments of the section  already  explained. 
The existing provisions of section 72 of the Principal Act cover the granting of leave of absence to (a) officers serving in an expeditionary force,  (b)  officers called up for service in the Citizen Forces, and (c) officers under agreement with the Minister of Defence for service as munitions workers. They do not, however, contain authority for the granting of leave to officers for the purpose of service in other forces or to engage in other war service as required under present conditions. It is considered desirable, therefore, to amend the act in the manner proposed in the bill. The classes of case not now covered, but for which it is desired to have authority to grant leave on the passage of the bill, are the following :  - 
Officers serving in the Air Force or the Naval Forces, other than the Citizen Forces. 
Officers serving in the forces of the United Kingdom or of other parts of the Empire. 
Officers employed in. other work or employment considered necessary or expedient for securing the public safety, the defence of the Commonwealth and the territories of the Commonwealth, or the efficient prosecution of the war; for example - 
Officers employed on Red Cross duty overseas. 
Female officers employed as full-time members of Voluntary Aid Detachments. 
Officers employed outside the Commonwealth service in munitions or aircraft production work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The time allotted for the consideration of the committee stages of the bill has expired. 
Question put - 
That the remainder of the bill, including the title, be agreed to, and that the bill be reported without amendment. 
There are two important reasons why the Opposition does not propose to discuss this measure. In the first place we have given a promise to the Government that we shall not in any way impede the passage of such financial measures as it considers necessary to enable it to carry on Australia's war effort. We have kept that promise to the letter since it was made at the outbreak of war. Secondly, as we were not anticipating the introduction of this measure, honorable senators on both sides of the chamber have made their transport arrangements. It is not our fault that the bill has been brought forward in this way. In spite of my announcement of our determination not to impede in any way the Government's financial proposals in connexion with our war effort, we are still not in agreement with the proposed method of raising the money. But that, of course, is the Government's responsibility. We on this side of the chamber are of the opinion that more effective use could be made of the Commonwealth Bank, but, for the reasons which I have indicated, I do not propose to repeat what I have said previously. I hope that the bill will have a speedy passage. 
I do not wish to delay honorable senators at this stage of the proceedings, but we are now asked to approve a bill which involves the raising of £50,000,000. I remind the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  that the people of Western Australia are most disturbed at the meagre consideration which they have received in the matter of war expenditure. In a newspaper published in Perth last week it was pointed out that during the past few months the excess of departures over arrivals from Western Australia to the eastern States was more than 1,000 a month and in some months the total had reached 2,000. The reason for such extensive migration is that our skilled workers and artisans are moving to the eastern States where they can get remunerative permanent work in munition factories. Week after week, and month after month, the population of Western Australia is being depleted owing to the departure of these people. I am pleased to learn 'that, with loan money, the Government has built a large munition factory in South Australia. A few weeks ago a complaint was made concerning the disparity between defence expenditure in New South Wales and in Victoria, and almost immediately, in order to satisfy the people of New South Wales, the Government decided to construct huge munition factories, not only near Sydney, but also at Newcastle. 
That may be. I applaud the Government for endeavouring to decentralize the manufacture of munitions so that, should one or two of our capital cities be bombed, the production of munitions would not be stopped entirely. But what has been done for Western Australia, a State which comprises nearly one-third of Australia? There are no munition factories in Western Australia, and the expenditure incurred in that State on defence works has been negligible. If a man in Western Australia wishes to contribute to the war effort practically the only way he can do so is to enlist in the Australian Imperial Force, and that is why the percentage of enlistments in that State is about 50 per cent, higher than the average for Australia, including Western Australia. That was disclosed by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  when he visited Western Australia last December, where he made a better impression than any other Australian public man has done. If the Government wants to do the fair thing by the people of Australia, it should decentralize its war industries and build in Western Australia at least one munition factory capable of employing from 10,000 to 15,000 artisans similar to the large factories in eastern Australia. The people of Western Australia are as loyal as are any in the Commonwealth, and as they are wholeheartedly behind our war effort, they should not be neglected in the matter of war expenditure. If the Minister for Supply and Development, who is an Australian with a national outlook, will visit Western Australia, I am sure that he will understand the justice of our claim. I trust that some of the money to be appropriated' under this bill will be used to establish a large and complete munition factory in the western State. I do not know why our war industries should be located in the most densely populated centres. For instance, it has been decided to build a new naval dock in Sydney Harbour, right in the centre of what is probably the most densely populated area in the Commonwealth. Should an enemy bomb that dock, the people living in the vicinity would be in great danger. I remind honorable senators that the late Admiral  Sir Reginald  Henderson, who recommended the construction of a naval dock at Sydney, urged the construction of two docks of equal size and importance, one of which was to 'be at Fremantle. The Government expended £1,000,000 on preliminary work for the Henderson Naval Base, and then abandoned the project. The construction of a munition factory in Western Australia is a matter of urgent national importance. I invite the Minister for Supply and Development to again visit Western Australia to ascertain whether some of the £50,000,000 to be raised could be expended on a large and modern munition factory in Western Australia on the lines I have outlined. 
I shall relieve honorable senators by telling them that I do not intend to speak at great length on this subject. A measure involving the raising of £50,000,000 should not be allowed to pass without comment. I understand that, in the House of Representatives to-day, the Government was asked why this amount could not he obtained through the Commonwealth Bank. I have not calculated the amount of interest to be paid on the amount involved in this instance, but when I made a similar calculation in connexion with the first war loan of £20,000,000, I found that the interest bill on that sum amounted to £600,000 per annum. Now the Government intends to borrow an additional £50,000,000 on similar terms. This morning, I asked three important questions which were not answered. I now realize why they were not answered. The questions were - 
Is it a fact that, under the National Security Act, the Government has the power to take over the whole Australian banking system f 
Is it a fact that paragraph 504 of the report of the Royal Commission on Banking states that the Commonwealth Bank can lend interest-free money to the Government? 
Is it a fact that the Government will not give Parliament a chance of discussing this commission's findings because its findings do not conform to the Government's financial methods? 
I protest strongly against the manner in which this Government is borrowing money. Last week, I drew the attention of the Senate to certain aspects of the last war loan. We were told that the loan was to be raised through the Commonwealth Bank and the trading banks. That was not the case. The manager of the Bank of New South Wales has said that the private banks provided the whole of the £20,000,000, which means that the Commonwealth Government conspired with the private banks, enabling them to obtain £20,000,000 and to lend it to the Government at  3i  per cent. 
nOrder! The honorable senator is not in order in saying that the Government conspired with the private banks. That remark must be withdrawn. 
I support the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that the Opposition is not in agreement with the Government's policy for the raising of the loan which the bill, if passed, will authorize. To indicate the policy of the Australian Labour party I shall quote two planks in the party's platform under the heading, " Taxation and Finance " - 
Naval and military expenditure to be allocated from direct taxation. 
Restriction of public borrowing. 
When the Labour party framed that portion of its platform it foresaw that certain interests were prepared to capitalize war so as to create an interest return in perpetuity for many persons who will take no part in the fighting. The Labour parity's policy has been supported in many quarters, because in the light of experience many are realizing that Labour's policy is right. Even orthodox financiers, as  Senator Darcey  would describe them, are becoming converts to Labour's policy. I quote the following from an article in  Sound Finance,  a monthly review published in Sydney, which appeared in the issue of the 10th March last: - 
The most fundamental of all the facts in relation to the war is that the real cost must be borne now. No portion can be postponed until the years after the war, much less shifted to a generation still to come. There is no such thing ns making posterity pay. 
The intention of the Government in framing the bill is that posterity shall pay interest to persons who invest their money in war loans. The article continues - 
The fighting forces must be fed and clothed  and  their fighting equipment must be provided by us. No portion can be produced by our children (excepting those already at work) or by generations yet unborn. We cannot dispose of a. single- pennyweight of the hurden. We can distribute the burden, but only among those now living and producing or receiving income. The whole art of war finance is in distributing this burden efficiently and equitably . . . 
If the whole of the war effort was financed out of taxation, it would be obvious that the whole burden was borne by the taxpayers in proportion to the taxes paid by each. For this and other reasons it would be a good thing if the whole of the war effort could be financed in that way. 
If loans are resorted to, the burden is not shifted to posterity, as many - in fact, most people - seem to imagine. The lenders accept burdens which would otherwise be spread through the whole community by taxation. That does not shift the burden to generations still to come. It merely shifts the burden from the community as a whole to a section of it, the lenders. The whole burden is borne by somebody or some sections living while the war is being fought. Posterity comes into the picture only in this way: Coming generations will be made to bear taxation in order to pay interest and eventually to repay the loans to the descendants of those who lent during the progress of the war. To recognize that is to realize, not only that it is impossible to shift the burden or any portion of it from the existing community as a whole to any succeeding generation as a whole, but also that ultimately the whole of the war effort must be financed out of taxation. 
I have claimed repeatedly in the Senate that the debtor section- (the workers - are being compelled to pay tribute in perpetuity to the creditor section. My last quotation from the article is the following : - 
Why not rely entirely upon straight-out taxation in the first place? This should bc done to the taxable limit. But what is the taxable limit? The absolute limit is the whole of the national income less sufficient to maintain the physique and morale of the community. . . . 
Why should we rely upon taxation to the utmost to finance the war? Firstly, it is the most equitable method. Secondly, it is the most certain way of withdrawing income from consumption as the output of consumption goods (due to the transfer of resources to the war effort) declines. Thirdly, it leaves no post-war problem of finding interest for bondholders. It should be obvious that if we allow war debts to grow apace, taxation will have to bo high after the war as well as during -the war period, so that the interest bill can be met. 
I commend those extracts from  Sound Finance,  a journal which is not associated with the Labour party, for the consideration of the Ministry and honorable senators opposite. The bill provides that a sum of £50,000,000 shall be raised by loan. In other words, deferred taxation is to be paid in perpetuity by those least able to pay it. It will not be taxation based on the principle that those most able to pay will pay the most. I agree with the statement of the Leader of the Opposition that the Labour party does not accept the Government's policy of capitalizing the war in the interests of investors - not the fighters or the workers - but those people who sit at home and profess to be ultrapatriots. Not only do they wave flags, but they also control the press and the radio with the object of conveying the impression that they are even greater patriots than those who are doing the actual fighting or are carrying on essential war work. Their motto is patriotism plus profit, and the more profit they make the more patriotic they are. 
.- I protest against the closing stage of this period of the session being used by the Government to bring before the Senate fifteen bills, including that now under discussion, which seeks the sanction of honorable senators to the raising of £50,000,000. No opportunity has been given to honorable senators to examine the bill. When the Government invited the moneyed people in this community to subscribe £20,000,000 to the first war loan at a time when the British Empire and Australia were engaged in the greatest war in history, the Government experienced the greatest difficulty in raising the money. The moneyed people should have provided the Government with a sum equal to twenty times £20,000,000. Fifteen bills have been hurled at honorable senators since 4 o'clock this afternoon. The manner in which Ministers are handling the business of this chamber is an outrage. There has has been ample time during the last month for the Government to have introduced machinery bills and given honorable senators sufficient time to have examined them. It seems to me that the members of the Government parties in this chamber are prepared to subscribe automatically to everything done in the House of Representatives. I am not prepared to adopt that attitude. If the House of Representatives was prepared to accept without question the bill authorizing the raising of £50,000,000 because the money is required for defence purposes I am not prepared to support the  bill on such specious grounds. I want to know whether the money is to be raised through the Commonwealth Bank, the rate of interest to be paid and the purposes to which the loan money is to be applied. The Ministry is being influenced by astute political leaders opposite and it has allowed the Senate to be subordinated to the House of Representatives. The Senate should be superior to the other House. Because no information has been furnished by the Government as to the method of raising the ?50,000,000 and its expenditure, I am not prepared to acquiesce in the request of the Government that the Senate should pass the bill in the last hour of this period of the session. I intend to vote against the second-reading of the bill as a protest against the procedure being adopted by the Government. When the Senate is asked to deal with a large number of bills in a limited period the Government should prepare a roster showing the order in which the bills are to be considered. 
Question put - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
, - This clause reads - 
This Act may be cited as the Loan Act 1941. 
The word " may " makes the retention of the existing title optional. In my opinion, the word "profiteering" would be more appropriate than the word "loan". 

 -(Senator James McLachlan). - Order! In this instance the word " profiteering " is most inappropriate and I ask the honorable senator not to use it. If he objects to the clause, he can signify his disapproval in gentlemanly language. 
As it is derogatory to the dignity of Parliament, I shall not allow the honorable senator to use it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Authority to borrow ?50,000,000). 
.- This clause provides an illustration of my earlier contention. The bill was placed in honorable senators' hands less than half an hour ago, and I confess that I am not familiar with the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1940, to which reference is made in this clause. As the result of the Government's dilatoriness, I am not in a position to inform my mind on the subject. To ask honorable senators to authorize, without proper consideration, the raising of the colossal sum of ?50,000,000 is to treat this chamber as a joke. I deplore the manner in which the Government is now conducting the business of the country. Despite its much-vaunted handling of the finances of the Commonwealth, the Government experienced the utmost difficulty in persuading the rich to subscribe to the previous loan. I do not deny the necessity for raising money, but I object to the manner in which the Government seeks legislative sanction for the flotation. Whilst I am a member of this chamber, I shall protest vehemently against each attempt to make the Senate a " rubber stamp " to approve the work of the House of Representatives. I shall vote against the clause. 
This clause empowers the Government to issue £50,000,000 in the form of treasury-bills, and I shall be interested to learn whether the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  proposes to use that method to raise the money. A treasury-bill is an undated IDU, which is issued by the Government. Recently the general manager of the Bank of New South Wales deplored the fact that treasury-bills in London returned only 10s. per cent., whilst the Commonwealth Government paid 35s. per cent, for the same accommodation in Australia. At any time, a treasury-bill can be presented to a bank and converted into cash. The banks, however, place treasury-bills in their cash reserves, and lend to the Government ten times the amount which they represent. Briefly, that describes the treasury-bill " racket ", and no Minister will venture to deny it. I am not concerned as to how the money will be expended, but I should like to know how it will be raised. Does the Government propose to float a loan on the open market and invite subscriptions from the public? The general manager of the Bank of New South Wales, in praising the loyalty and patriotism of the private banks in the present crisis, declared that they had subscribed the whole of the £20,000,000 of the first war loan. I ask the  Government  whether that statement is correct. The committee has the right to be told by the Government how it intends to raise this £50,000,000. Paragraph 504 of the report of the Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems says that the Commonwealth Bank  can  issue interestfree money. I pointed that out earlier to-day, and when it was questioned I referred to paragraph 530 of the same report. The  chairman  of that commis sion was a high constitutional authority and a judge of the Supreme Court of South Australia. That paragraph states, in effect, that ultimately Parliament is responsible for the control of finance and for the good government of Australia. The report of the commission states that if at any time there is any difference of opinion between the Commonwealth Bank Board and the Commonwealth Government as to the policy of the board, a free and frank discussion should take place. Should their opinions still be irreconcilable, the Government must take the full responsibility and tell the Board how to act. If the Government wants £50,000,000, it needs only to apply to the Commonwealth Bank Board for credit to that amount. Any one with any financial knowledge at all knows that no money raised by the methods proposed in this bill ever reaches the Treasury. All that the raising of a loan implies is that the Treasury has the right to draw cheques. That is how this country is financed. 1 strongly protest against this £50,000,000 being raised through any channel other than the Commonwealth Bank. 
I emphasize that if this war does not last beyond the lifetime of this generation, it will be paid for fully by this generation in terms of man-power and materials. That submission is incontrovertible. Then why the necessity to borrow? Like  Senator Keane,  I protest against the attempt to rush this bill through the Senate. I know that for years it has been, the custom on the eve of Parliament rising to rush legislation through this chamber, but in the light of what is taking place an emphatic protest should be make against such procedure. To expect this committee to be more or less, in the words of  Senator Abbott,  "an animated rubber stamp ", is to expect something which  Senator Keane  and I do not propose to accept. If other honorable senators on this side of the chamber are prepared to be " animated rubber stamps", we are not. 
This is not the budget. It is a proposal to borrow ?50,000,000. It is one thing to give power to the Government, but the way in which the Government intends to use that power is another. If the burden were to be distributed equitably, I assume that honorable senators who are now dissenting would agree to the bill. But equity is not intended in this bill. From whom is ?50,000,000 to be borrowed? From the persons who have been able by devious methods well known to all- 
The language is not so clear and explicit as I think it should be. The clause reads - 
The Treasurer may, from time to time, borrow, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 191 1-40, or under the provisions of any act authorizing the issue of treasury-bills, moneys not exceeding in the whole the amount of ?50,000,000. 
It is about as clear as mud. "We want to know precisely what the Government intends to do. I assume that the Government intends to borrow money in the ordinary way which you,'  Mr. Chairman,  and I, as common-sense individuals, understand and, if that is done, it simply means that rather than tax those who should be taxed to pay for our war-time effort, the Government is saying in effect : " We shall not tax you, but lend us your money which will give us the right to pay for services and purchase materials which we require, and we undertake to pay back not only what we borrow from you, but also interest. Therefore, you will remain at home receiving interest on the money which you have loaned while your fellow Australians will he fighting overseas on your behalf. They will be making all the sacrifices and you will be making all the profit". That is exactly what it means, and we, as Labour men, who for years and years have denounced this system as infamously fraudulent, would be lacking in our duty if we did not register our protest. On those grounds I join with Senators Darcey and Keane. 
I was not reflecting on  Senator Herbert  Hays. I think that he is quite an honest man. 
Yes, emphatically. 
With due deference I withdraw the expression. I shall say that in the past money has been raised in a manner which is seriously suspect to all intelligent people. 
On several occasions in the last few days I have listened to  Senator Darcey  speak on the subject of finance. It appears to me that what he advocates is uncontrolled use of the printing press. If he had his way, as I understand his remarks, he would simply put the Note Printing Branch at work to issue ?50,000,000 worth of notes and thereby bring about uncontrolled inflation, the results of which we saw a decade or so ago in Germany and other Central European states. If the printing press were set to work as apparently desired by the honorable senator, and that not inconsiderable body of public opinion which stands behind him on financial matters, no one would suffer more than the workers and those who are dependent on wages and salaries for their subsistence. 
Frankly and freely I admit that  Senator Darcey  has not used the words " printing press ", but I have often listened to the honorable senator and my interpretation of what he has had to say is that he is an advocate of uncontrolled inflation. If this is not so, will the honorable senator state exactly how the money would be raised by him. 
As I see it,  Senator Darcey  desires that this £50,000,000 be raised not by the legitimate means of a loan from the hardearned savings of the people, as is properly desired by the Government, but by recourse to the printing press. 
Not in so many words, but by implication. I know that the honorable senator's policy will never be applied by this Government, in whose financial policy I have every confidence. But, if it were followed, those who would suffer most from it would be the . workers and all people who are dependent on fixed wages and salaries for their subsistence. The prices of all commodities and of all the necessaries of life, particularly the imported, would rise higher and higher, and the thrifty worker would find that the value of his savings hank account and his insurance policies had depreciated. At any rate the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  has told us that we have already used the national credit to the danger line. Under this bill we shall use the credit of the Commonwealth to the fullest degree. I commend the Government for the policy it is adopting, and urge it to stick to the margin of safety and not to be misled by those who would subject the people of Australia to the miseries of uncontrolled inflation. 
The letter from  Senator Johnston  practically explains what the Government is already doing. It is using the national credit. 
Later, the Treasurer said that if the suggestion made by  Senator Johnston  were given effect it would result in the financial ruin of Australia.  Senator Johnston  now comes along with all this tarradiddle about printing notes. In Australia, there is only about £65,000,000 worth of notes, and, according to a statement issued by the Commonwealth Bank Board, only £15,000,000 worth of notes is held by the associated banks. How, then, can the associated banks lend £20,000,000 to the Government? 
.- In accordance with my promise during the second-reading debate on the bill, I intend to vote against this clause for what I suggest is a sound reason. I reiterate that I do not intend to be placed in the position of being merely a recording angel for another place. The clause reads - 
The Treasurer may, from time to time, borrow, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1940. or under  the provisions of any act authorizing the issue of treasury-bills, moneys not exceeding in the whole the amount of Fifty million pounds. 
I have already said that I am not conversant with the provisions of the act mentioned in the clause. This hill was not in our possession until about an hour and a half ago. The handling of the business of this chamber by every party is a disgrace to the Parliament of Australia. Since 1.30 this afternoon no fewer than fourteen bills have been thrown to honorable senators, who are expected to pass them without comment. This may be a most dangerous bill. I do not know if it is or if it is not. As a protest against the muddling way in which the business is handled in this Parliament, I shall vote against every clause in this 'bill and every other bill brought before the Senate tonight. Honorable senators may think that I display a little heat in regard to this matter; I make no apology for it. Every honorable senator on this side of the chamber has had to fight for his rights. The Opposition has co-operated with the Government in securing the speedy passage of its war legislation. It has agreed to the industrial dilution of labour- 
I oppose this attempt to bludgeon through this chamber bills which we have not even been given an opportunity to consider. My Leader may say that our party has agreed to the bill. I have not heard the subject matter of this bill discussed at meetings of my party for many months. I repeat that I will not be a mere recording angel for another place. I propose to divide the committee on every clause of every bill brought before us to-night, not necessarily because I am opposed to the measures, but because of the methods adopted by the Government in rushing them through this chamber in the dying hours of this period of the session. Some day I trust that the voices of those who want the business of this chamber to be conducted in a proper way will be listened to. I shall not rest content until that is done and the prestige of this branch of the legislature is once more restored to its former level. 
Another reason why I am opposed to clause 3 is because borrowing involves the payment of interest, which, in turn, increases prices, particularly of commodities produced in Australia. I submit that in time of war there can be no justification for any process which brings about an increase of prices to the detriment of those who have to pay them. In economics the value form of prices is, in my opinion, the most difficult subject to understand. It is difficult because most people take far too much for granted. They assume when in the name of the Prices Commissioner it is said that increased prices are necesary that the increase is a legitimate charge. 
I wish to point out, if I may, that my objection to the borrowing of £50,000,000 is that it involves the payment of interest. Interest is profit, and the interest and profit are passed on to prices. 
The wording of the clause implies that interest is to be paid on the money borrowed. As an experienced  chairman,  and one who has been a member of the Senate for a number of years, you, sir, will recognize that all sentences, including those used in the drafting of bills of this kind, are elliptical, that is to say, they leave something to be understood. So, when the word " borrow " is used, it is implied that interest shall be paid. I suggest that that is the only construction which you or I, as close and observant students of  these things, could place on the wording of the clause. If interest has to be paid an increase of prices must result. 
I have no wish to discuss prices. My only wish is to understand, if I can, precisely what is meant by this clause. 
Our experience of asking questions has not been as satisfactory as it might be. This clause is very ambiguously worded, and for that reason due allowance should be made. We should know precisely what we are doing. As the clause is worded at present, it may mean anything. We, as the representatives of the people, have the right and, in fact, a duty to demand that, before we cast a vote on any provision contained in a bill, we should know exactly what it means. As this clause is ambiguously worded, and it is difficult to say exactly what is meant, surely it is within the province of any honorable senator to place his own construction on the words used. As the clause stands at present, we are asked, in effect, to buy a " pig in a poke ". Prices will be increased if this bill be passed. Increased prices will mean a reduction of wages, which, in turn, will result in industrial disputes and strikes, the very last things we desire. Therefore, in directing attention to this clause, and what it is likely to lead to, we are assisting the Government. If the clause be passed it is likely to have a detrimental effect on our war effort. 
Declaration of Urgency. 
I declare that the LoanBill 1941 is an urgent bill. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  put - 
That the 'Bill he considered an urgent bill. 
.- I reiterate that I am not opposing this measure because I realize that the Government must have money, but my opposition to the procedure which has been adopted will continue during the remainder ofthe proceedings in this chamber to-night as a practical protest against the Government's method of handling business. To hand a bill to honorable senators who are in complete ignorance of the act which it mentions, the use to which the money will beput, and the procedure by which it is to be raised, is beyond the bounds of reason. I recollect that in May and December of last year honorable senators scrambled through the consideration of measures that should have been given very careful attention, in order to oblige the House of Representatives and help Ministers in the discharge of public business. Had the Ministry adopted a commonsense method of presenting business to this chamber, no troublewould have occurred here this evening. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  should prepare a roster setting out a. list of the bills due for consideration so that honorable senators would have an opportunity to discharge their duties properly. Many honorable senators left for their homesthis evening in ignorance of the fact that fourteen bills were to be introduced into this chamber after we had completed our consideration of the child endowment measures. If they were present now, I venture to say that these divisions would have been fairly closely contested. Some honorable senators are prepared to follow slavishly the wishes of the House of Representatives. I am not willing to do so for the reason that I have announced. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B.  Hayes). - Order! The honorable senator should confine his remarks to the bill. 
My two colleagues and I are protesting not against the actual legislation, but against the method used by the Government in presenting it to this chamber. I am amazed that any honorable senator on this side of the chamber should so lightly take his responsibilities as to vote with the Government- 
Order! The honorable senator must not continue in that strain. 

 Senator CAMERON  (Victoria) [9.46'J. - As  Senator Keane  has said, honorable senators on this side of the chamber have given the Government, for all practical purposes, full powers to raise money in order to organize a maximum war effort. But I feel justified in registering a protest, against this bill, because it proposes to raise money by a method which will have a detrimental effect on those persons least able /to pay. Public moneys should be raised on the principle that those in the best position to pay should make the greatest contribution. This bill provides for a complete reversal of that precept. Actually, the wage-earners, who, unlike the employer, are unable to pass on taxes, will be called upon to contribute the majority of the amount that the Government seeks to raise. That is the very antithesis not only of equitable procedure, but also of the policy to which every honorable senator on this side of the chamber has pledged himself. Those honorable senators of the Opposition who have voted with the Government on this measure have, in effect, voted for a reduction of the purchasing power of wages. 
If the cap fits any person, I am not particular whether he wears it or not. 
I do, but I also realize that many people with whom the honorable gentleman is prominently associated are using the war as a means of making profits at the expense of the wage earners and of those Australians who are fighting overseas. I protest against the capitalizing of our war effort in the interests of investors - those persons who profit by public loans, contracts and high salaries, the whole plundering gang that would rob the people whom they ask to fight and work for this country. I have been a member of this chamber for nearly three years. When I first came here I was prepared, as a political neophyte, to accept the procedure laid down by the Government in the belief that I was doing what was expected of a person in my position. But, now that it is apparent that my acquiescence in' this method of conducting public business is to be used for ulterior motives, I protest and shall register my vote against the Government on every possible occasion. The Senate is expected to give reasonable consideration to every bill that comes before it. How is that possible when bills are rushed from the House of Representatives, to use  a  term, of which  Senator Johnston  is fond, like sausages from a machine? As the result of its acquiescence in this procedure, this chamber has come to be regarded as being of little consequence. The gentleman who has the privilege to misrepresent Australia in the United States of America once said that the Senate was composed of persons who were habitually drowsy- 
My objection to the procedure in this chamber is based upon criticism that has been levelled at it. If other honorable senators are content to be regarded as being of no account- 
I submit that my remarks have reference to the bill because this measure was placed before us at practically a moment's notice. I wish to register my objection as dispassionately, clearly and emphatically as I can. I submit for your consideration,  Mr. President,  that persons in our position, are expected to give reasonable attention to every bill that comes before us. If we continue to acquiesce in the Government's unsatisfactory methods, we shall be as much to blame as those who are primarily responsible. I can only register my objection by saying that from now on I shall not acquiesce in that procedure as I am expected to do. If any honorable  senator on either side of the chamber prefers to do so, that is his responsibility, not mine. I am responsible for what I do, and they are responsible for their own actions. I realize my responsibility in this matter; I shall vote against the bill. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this bill is to enable the Commonwealth Government to make loans, not exceeding £20,000, to the State of Tasmania for the purpose of helping that State to alleviate hardships suffered by berry fruitgrowers in consequence of damage to their crops by frost and hail. During October and November of last- year, berry fruit crops in Tasmania were severely damaged by frost and hail with heavy losses to the growers of those fruits. Representations were made to the Commonwealth Government by all Tasmanian members and senators that the Commonwealth grant financial assistance to enable that State to alleviate the position of the growers affected. Similar representations were also made by the Tasmanian Government. The Commonwealth Government feels that misfortunes of this character, which are of a State, or, local nature, are the responsibility of the State concerned, and is unwilling to make a direct grant. 
The bill has been framed along the lines of the Loan (Drought Relief) Act passed during the last session for the alleviation of hardship suffered by primary producers in consequence of drought. The loan to be raised for that purpose was to be apportioned to all States except Tasmania which was not, at that time, an applicant. The rate of interest payable by the State of Tasmania to the Commonwealth is specifically stated at 31/4 per cent. Honorable senators will observe, however, that this bill provides for the arrangement included in the legislation previously mentioned, under which the Commonwealth will meet a portion of the interest which would normally be payable by the State on the principal of the money loaned to it. The Treasurer is empowered to make a concession of the full amount of the interest for the first year of the loan, and a concession of half the amount in subsequent years. The conditions of repayment of the loan are the same as those in the Loan (Drought Belief) Act, viz. - by four equal annual payments, the first to be made not later than four years, and the last not later than seven years after the making of the loan. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
Declaration op Urgency. 
I declare the Berry Fruit-growers' Relief Bill 1941 is an urgent bill. 
Motion (bySenator McLeay) put - 
That the bill be considered an urgent bill. 
.- I protest againstthe motion. Under this bill, we are asked to votethe sum of £20,000 forthe assistance of berrygrowers in Tasmania whose crops, the Minister  (Senator McBride)  has informed us, have been damaged by frost and hail. I do not know whether the berry-growers in Tasmania have suffered loss because of a storm; indeed, I do not know whether there are any berry-growers in that State. I protest against the action of the Government in declaring this bill an urgent bill. More particularly in view of the fact that the Government has received the fullest co-operation from the Opposition in expediting the passage of urgent legislation, I protest against the Government's action in slamming business through the Senate in this way. I and my colleagues who are now resisting those tactics have never been disloyal to any decision of our party caucus. The BerryFruit-Growers' Belief Bill was never mentioned at any of our caucus meetings. The Government knows beforehand its legislative programme,yet it persists in the muddling practice of bringing down measures of this kind in the dying minutes of a session. I am not prepared to acquiesce in that practice. Therefore, in protest, I shall vote against the measure. 
.- The objections to this bill which some honorable senators opposite have raised cannot be supported by facts. The Minister in charge of the measure explained quite clearly the necessity for the measure. Inquiry into the circumstances of the berry fruit-growers of Tasmania has been made by both Commonwealth and State Government representatives. In any case, the money is to be advanced as a loan which the fruitgrowers will repay in due course. 
Some measures had necessarily to be left for to-day. There is nothing mysterious about this bill. The Government of Tasmania has agreed to supplement by another £10,000 the amount now to be provided and under similar conditions. 

 . -Senator Herbert Hays' statement that we have been given the necessary information on which to pass a vote on this bill is not correct. It is true that the Minister made a second-reading speech on the measure, but we have not been supplied with a copy of the notes he used, and it is not possible for honorable senators to retain in their minds the details of such a speech. If the Government desired to expedite the business of the Senate it should have supplied honorable senators with typewritten copies of the Minister's speech and it could easily have done so. We should then have been in a position to debate the bill intelligently. I have told members of the Government on previous occasions, but apparently it is necessary for me to repeat my words, that I am not prepared to accept the statements in a secondreading speech simply because they are made by a Minister. I expect from a Minister the same consideration that I would be prepared to accord him were he in my place and I in his. It is unreasonable to expect us to pass a bill of this description within a few minutes of its introduction. All we ask is that we shall be given a reasonable opportunity to debate the various measures presented to us. Like many measures which come to us from the House of Representatives this is a skeleton bill. It may be quite all right, but it may not be all right. I do not attribute any ulterior motives to the Government in this connexion, but I must insist that we be given a reasonable opportunity to study the merits of the various measures placed before us. I know of no other deliberative assembly in which such a reasonable request would be refused. That the Government has not seen fit to comply with our desires shows that it regards us as of no account whatsoever. Any old thing, it seems, is good enough for honorable senators on this side of the chamber! I assure the members of the Government that I am rather fastidious, if not exactly a political epicurean, and this kind of treatment is not good enough for me. If it is continued, the members of the Government will have to submit to the painful process of being disillusioned as often as may be necessary. 
The Opposition will support this bill. We know that there is a State called Tasmania, that berries are grown there, and that the berry-growers have suffered severely. It is for this reason that the Government has introduced this bill. 
I also support the bill, but I wish to know why discrimination is being shown against Tasmania. Why is this money to be made available by way of loan instead of by gift? 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - The honorable senator may not, on this motion, discuss the merits of the bill. He must confine his remarks to the proposed allotment of time. 
I intend to support the bill. 
Motion put. 
I support the bill and shall try to enlighten the honorable senator who has said that he knows nothing about the measure, or the urgent necessity for it. I wish, first, to pay a tribute to the great interest which the honorable member for Franklin  (Mr. Frost)  showed in this measure in the. House of Representatives. I. believe that he was principally responsible for persuading the Government to make money available by way of loan for the assistance of the berrygrowers and other fruit-growers. These people suffered severe hardships through the adverse weather conditions of Tasmania during this season. This has been acknowledged by the Government of Tasmania as well as by the Commonwealth Government, for, while the Commonwealth Government is making available a sum of £20,000, the Government of Tasmania is providing £10,000 to assist these people. The berry-growers make their living on small holdings, in rough country not suitable for other occupations, and if their crop fails they, at once, find themselves in great distress. The adverse weather conditions of the last growing season ruined their crops. 
Numerous applegrowers in Tasmania also suffered severely. Unless the Government comes to the assistance of the berry-growers they will not be able to maintain their operations. Honorable senators will recollect that the wheat-growers of Victoria were granted considerable assistance last year, and no one squealed about it. Myonly complaint about this measure is that insufficient assistance is being provided. 
The Government and the people of Tasmania are grateful for the loan  of  £20,000, although they would have preferred a grant of that amount. However, knowing how badly the fruit-growers need assistance, the State government will gladly accept the money on loan. I strongly approve of the bill, my only regret being that the amount is not greater and that it is not to be advanced by way of grant instead of loan. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 (Short title). 
.- I should like the Minister '  (Senator McBride)  to say at whose instigation this bill was introduced, to what areas it will apply, when the alleged storm occurred, when the Government became aware of it, and why it took so long to bring forward this simple measure. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Loans to State of Tasmania). 

 Senator KEANE (Victoria) [10.28). - I ask the Minister in charge of the bill to explain the conditions which will apply to these loans. I resent his noncompliance with my respectful request in respect of clause 1, and I hope that he will be courteous enough to explain this clause. I particularly desire to know why loans are necessary, the rates of interest that will apply to them, and the terms of repayment. 
 As I said in my second-reading speech, these loans will be at 31/4 per cent. Arrangements will be made for the growers to receive advances under conditions similar to those which apply to drought relief assistance to other primary producers. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
To-day  Senator Cameron  asked the Minister for Supply and 'Development  (Senator McBride)  the following question - 
What precautions, if any,are being taken by the Government to protect the health of workers employed at the Explosives Factory, Maribyrnong, Victoria, working among chemicals, fumes and dust which are injurious to health. 
I am. now in a position to inform him that the principal medical officer and the medical staff are keenly alert to the dangers associated with such occupation, and in one particular section special officers with special apparatus are investigating dust particles. In addition, special exhaust machinery is being installed to convey dust particles from machines to the open air. All protective and remedial measures will be taken to minimize risk. 
.- I regret the unpleasant role that some honorable senators on this side have been compelled to adopt this evening, and I now ask the Leader of the Senate to arrange that, when we re-assemble after the Easter adjournment, there will be an orderly schedule of business, so that we shall not have foisted on us, as has been done to-day and on numerous occasions in the past, numbers of bills to be dealt with without any opportunity for their proper discussion. Slavish adherence to decisions made in the House of Representatives is not in the interests of satisfactory legislation. This is the senior House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth and its authority should be recognized. During the period that will elapse before we again assemble here it may be possible for the Leader of the Senate to devise means by which more bills will be initiated in this chamber. I wish to make it clear that I shall not be a party to the passing of legislation that I do not understand. If I were to say otherwise, I should not be truthful. Honorable senators on this side are prepared to accept decisions arrived at by the party to which they belong, but many of the matters which have come before us to-day had not been seen by the party until they were placed before us for almost immediate approval. In order to avoid a repetition of such unsatisfactory procedure, which is unfair to this Parliament and to the electors, I ask the Leader of the Senate to take my suggestion into consideration. 
 I have a good deal of sympathy with the protest of  Senator Keane,  but the Senate will not receive proper recognition merely because three members of a large party make a protest in the dying hours of a period of a session, when most of the members of that party are absent. I agree that proper time should be devoted to the consideration of the measures that come before us. I say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  who has frequently voiced a similar objection more vigorously even than  Senator Keane  has done to-night, that the rushing through of a dozen or twenty measures in a few hours could be avoided by a refusal to assist in the suspension of the Standing Orders, in order to permit that to be done. That might necessitate adjourning the sitting, but it would enable proper consideration to be given to the measures. 
That is incorrect. The honorable senator has sat in his place while motions to permit bills to be dealt with in all stages without delay have been allowed to pass without protest, yet he now talks about the "gag". This chamber should have the same opportunity to consider and deliberate upon the measures that come before it as has any legislative council in a State with a bi-cameral parliamentary system. If a dozen bills were submitted to the Legislative Council of Western Australia at the last minute, that chamber would, except, perhaps, on the eve of Christmas, refuse to deal with them immediately, but would continue its sittings until they had been dealt with in a proper manner. There would be no suspension of the Standing Orders to allow them to be rushed through. 
The honorable senator has never tried to prevent the suspension of the Standing Orders, under which these measures are rushed through; but should such action be taken, I shall support it. We should tell the House of Representatives that we are not prepared to remain at its beck and call while it proceeds with its business in a leisurely fashion, and then deal with twelve or fifteen bills in one day. I commend  Senator Keane  for having made a protest against the procedure which has been adopted, and I hope that the time will soon come when we shall not agree to the suspension of the Standing Orders in such circumstances, but will insist on the business of the Senate being dealt with in a proper manner. 
Most honorable senators believe in the principle of " one man, one job ". I direct attention to the fact that a lot of journalistic work is sent to the  West Australian  newspaper each week by a  gentleman named Gilbert, who is a publicity officer attached to the Prime Minister's Department, and was, I understand, part author of a publication entitled  The Case for Union.  There are at Canberra some of the cleverest and most up-to-date journalists in Australia, who are paid proper award rates and are dependent on their journalistic work for their livelihood. That being so, it is wrong that an officer of the Prime Minister's Department, -who probably receives a good salary as a public servant, should do this work week by week. I protest also against some of the alleged " news " that is sent to the  West Australian  by this official. Items are sent - the kind of material which we might expect from an amateur civil servant dabbling in journalism - taken wholly from the Sydney daily papers. The activities and speeches of our Western Australian Minister  (Senator Collett)  and the actions of Western Australian members of this Parliament receive, in Gilbert's columns, no notice at all, even on matters vital to our State. I should like to know whether  Mr. Gilbert  has permission from his departin ent to do this work, and, if so, why it was granted, since the public of Western Australia could get more accurate news from Canberra from some of the trained journalists here in the press gallery and know what is going on. I know something of the finances of the  West Australian,  and know that it can afford to pay a proper journalist to do this work. It has no need to utilize the services of a public servant, who should otherwise 'be fully employed, when it can get all that it requires from journalists who are paid proper award rates. 
I shall read a statement in connexion with the advertising activities of the Department of Information, similar in terms to that made by the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  in the House of Representatives  (vide  page 70S). 
I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  to circulate to honorable senators the answers to questions on notice which have not yet been replied to. 
In regard to the proceedings in the chamber this evening, I want it to be understood that no discourtesy was intended to you,  Mr. President,  or to any honorable senator. I felt that I was justified in demanding an explanation of the bills submitted, and in this I was only exercising the privilege which I hold in common with all other senators. During the two years that I have been a member of the Senate, I have never reflected upon any honorable senator in a personal way, though I have been as critical as I thought the circumstances justified. On several occasions, however, Ministers of the Crown who, if they have no respect for themselves, should have respect for the positions they hold, have reflected upon me in a personal way. I have always acted in this chamber in support of the policy to which I am pledged, of which I approve and of which I am proud. On no occasion have I departed from any of the decisions reached by the party to which I belong, or from its policy. 
My protest to-night was directed against the procedure adopted. I understood  Senator Johnston  to remark that we should have protested before to-night. We have protested. I think he too has protested. On different occasions we have said to the Government with courtesy and reasonableness, "Give us a little more consideration, treat us as we should be treated ". Surely in voicing our protest we should not be forced into a debate in which there are recriminations and the attributing of ulterior motives. I hope that as a result of the protest which, in my opinion, was justified, Ministers in this chamber will confer with their colleagues in Cabinet and try to convince them that members of the Opposition in this chamber should receive the consideration which Ministers in the House of Representatives extend to the Opposition. In an emergency, I am prepared to accept in good faith within limitations that which I may be asked to accept, but I do not think that any member of the Opposition in this chamber is prepared to do that indefinitely. I trust that our protest will not go unnoticed and that there will be no necessity for a repetition of the protest which has been made to-night. 
I protest against a long adjournment of Parliament. I consider that the Government should call Parliament together soon after Easter. Such a course would be of much advantage to honorable senators on both sides of the chamber and to the country generally. 
The Minister's reply is news to me. Parliament should meet more frequently instead of adjourning for periods of two or three months. Members and honorable senators would then have greater opportunities to consider the legislation introduced. I have protested on several previous occasions against the rushing of bills through the Senate. There is an appropriate time to protest,but it is not during the secondreading debate on a bill.  Senator Johnston,  who has just made a similar protest, has voted twice to-night in favour of the use of the guillotine in order to rush business through the Senate. When I make a protest I do not talk one way and vote in another. 1 trust that the Government will keep Parliament in session more frequently during the war. Members of the House of Representatives and honorable senators desire to ventilate grievances in Parliament and to endeavour to obtain from Ministers information which they cannot get when Parliament is in recess. I do not think that we can fulfil out duties properly when Parliament is adjourned for long periods. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Honorable  senators  will have read with deep regret  of the  death in Adelaide, on the 23rd April  last,  of  Mr. John  Lloyd Price, who  was a  member of the House ofRepresentatives and represented the South Australian division of Boothby. The late  Mr. Price  had had a long parliamentary career,  having  been elected to the House  of  Assembly in South Australia in 1915. He  was  elected to the House of Representatives  in  1928 as the member for Boothby,  and  represented that division till the time of his death. The late  Mr. Price  was a member of the Bankruptcy Legislation Committee from 1932 to 1935, and was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from December, 1937, to August, 1940. He was a member  of  the Joint Parliamentary Committee  on  Public Works from December, 1937,  to 1940,  and Government Whip in the House of Representatives from November,  1940,  to the date of his death. He was also  a  member of the House Committee. The late honorable member was well known to members of the present Parliament, and I feel sure that he will be missed by  all  of us.  I  extend to his widow and family our most sincere sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Mr. John  Lloyd Price, member of the House of Representatives for the division of Boothby, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
It is always  an  occasion for regret and sadness when we have  to  refer to the passing of  one  with whom we have been accustomed to work over the years in this Parliament. I knew the late  Mr. Price,  as we all  did,  very well. I was also acquainted with his father, who passed away many years ago.  It  is  fit  and proper that this motion of condolence should be passed, and I associate myself and the other members  of  the Opposition with it. 
On .behalf of the members of the  Country  party in this chamber, I support the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator MeLeay)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator  Collings). In all sincerity,  we  can say that we hold in affectionate memory John Price, whom most of us familiarly knew as " Jackie " Price. We recall how he seemed to be in the fullness of life only  a  week or two before we heard  the  sad news of his death. I was associatedwith him and had opportunities to know him well on the Bankruptcy Legislation Committee. I am glad that during my term in this Parliament I was privileged  to  claim him as a friend, and I join sincerely  in  this expression of sympathy to his widow and family. 
I have known the late  Mr. Price  from boyhood. I was particularly friendly with his family, especially his father, the late Honorable Thomas Price, a former Premier of South Australia.  As  a colleague of the deceased gentleman when he was a member of the South Australian House of Assembly, I knew him intimately, and his death is generally regretted in South Australia. He  was a  loyal citizen and a valuable representative of his electorate. His nature  was  such that he endeared himself  to all of us.  There was no doubt as to his honesty  and  sincerity in politics. 
Like my colleague,  Senator James  McLachlan, I have known the  late  Mr. Price  as boy, man, legislator,  AgentGeneral  for South Australia, and afterwards as representative of the division of Boothby in the House of Representatives. I associate myself with this motion of condolence to the widow  and f amily, and I also wish  to pay one  other tribute to the memory of the late  Mr. Price.  He possessed the courage that his father possessed before him. It was a traditional courage, and, in his last days, it must have been most gratifying to the deceased, who had an illness which he bore with great cheerfulness, to know that that courage had been handed down to his distinguished son, who has been decorated for his services in the air arm of the Royal Australian Navy. 
Question resolved  in  the  affirmative,  honorable  senators  standing  in their  places. 
It  is  with regret  that I inform honorable senators  of the  death, in Melbourne, on  the 12th April  last, of the Honorable James  Arthur  Boyd, who was  a  former member  of the  House of Representatives. The  late  Mr.  Boyd was elected to the  Legislative Assembly  of Victoria in  1901 and was a  member of that chamber  till 1908. He  was an honorary Minister from February,  1907,  to December,  1908. He waselected  to the House of  Representatives  for the division of Henty in  1913,  and again in  1914  and  1917.  Although  many  years have passed since the  late member  sat in this Parliament, it is  in keeping  with the tradition of the  Senate that we to-day  honour his memory.  I  extend  to  his family our sincere sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honorable James Arthur Boyd, former member of the House of Representatives for the division of Henty and former State Minister, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to the members of hie family in their bereavement. 
I had  not  the privilege of acquaintanceship with the  late  Honorable J. A. Boyd,  nor,  J  think,  had  any  other member of the present Opposition in this chamber, but as the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has told us the deceased gentleman  Tendered  valuable service to  the  Parliament of this country, he is entitled to  the  respect which we now pay his memory. The Opposition associates itself with the motion, particularly with  the  expression of sympathy with the members of  the  family of  the  deceased. 
The Country party wishes to be associated with the motion before the Senate. I knew  the  late James Boyd when he and I were members of the House of Representatives. He  was  a man of sterling worth  and  forceful character who exhibited courage  and  forthrightness in all that he did. He will be greatly missed in business circles. Our sympathy goes  out  to his family in their bereavement. 
Although, as the Leader of  the  Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has said,  not  any members of  the  present Opposition were associated with the late James Arthur Boyd when he was a member of the House of Representatives, I knew him for many years when I too was a member of that chamber. The late  Mr. Boyd  was indeed, as  Senator Gibson  has Raid, a man of sterling character, forthright  and  courageous in all that he undertook. To the last he  led  a  full  life  and  enjoyed the company of  his  friends. A rugged Scot, he was loyal,  not  only to Scotland,  the  land of his birth,  but  also to Australia, the land of  his  adoption. I regard his passing as  a  great personal loss. He will be sadly missed in Victoria where he  was  an outstanding personality. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
It is with regret that I inform honorable senators of the death on the 8th May of  Mr. Alexander  Hay, who was a former member of the House of Representatives, he having been elected for the division of New England at the general election in 1919. He represented that division till 1922. The late  Mr. Hay  served in the Australian Imperial Force in the last war. He was appointed a captain in the Force in 1915, and later in that year was promoted to major. He was second in command of the New South Wales and Queensland Remount Units. I extend to the members of his family our sincere sympathy.  I  move - 
That the Senate expresses itssincere regret at the death of  Mr. Alexander  Hay, former member of the House of Representatives for the division of New England, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to the members of his  family in their bereavement. 
Although, so far as I am aware, no member now sitting on this side of the chamber had the privilege of personal acquaintance with the late  Mr. Hay,  it is fitting that the Senate should pay respect to his memory, and place on record its appreciation of the work which he, as a former member of the National Parliament, was able to do for this country. The Opposition joins in the expression of sympathy with the members of the late  Mr. Hay's  family who to-day mourn his loss. 
Although I had not the privilege of personal acquaintanceship with the late  Mr. Hay,  the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  indicate clearly that he had a distinguished military career and rendered valuable service to this country. The Country party desires to associate itself with the motion before the Chair, particularly that portion of it which expresses sympathy with the members of the family of the 'deceased gentleman. 
Question  resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
As a mark of respect to the memory of the gentlemen whose passing we mourn, I move - 
That the Senate  do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the purpose of assisting the lamb and pork export trade, does the Government intend to provide additional cold storage in the States concerned, in order to maintain supplies until increased overseas shipping space becomes available? 
The subject of extending the presentcold storage facilities in all of the States is under consideration, and considerable progress has been made in that direction. 

Having regard to the importance of tobacco-growing and manufacturing in Western Australia, and the importance of the Commonwealth effort towards the conservation of dollar exchange, will the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Customs reconsider the personnel of the newly formed Tobacco Board, and urge the appointment to that body of a direct representative of the Western Australian growers and manufacturers? 
I realize the growing importance of the tobacco industry in Western Australia, and I shall have a consultation with the Minister for Trade and Customs to see if anything can be done along the lines suggested by the honorable senator. 
Will the Minister assisting the Minister for Repatriation inform the Senate what percentage of men returned from overseas for discharge have been placed in employment by the Repatriation Department? While awaiting appointment do these men receive any allowance or other consideration? 
I recently made  a  statement in regard to this matter, and a report of my remarks appeared in the press. Up to the end of April, 411 discharged returned soldiers had registered for employment in the different branch offices of the Repatriation Commission, and at that date all had been placed in employment with the exception of 51. Since the inception of the scheme for assisting these men, the sum of £3,146 has been paid by way of sustenance to them whilst awaiting suitable employment. This measure of assistance,  as  honorable senators will be aware, is extended to men discharged after service abroad with satisfactory service records, and the measure of sustenance ranges from £2 2s.  a  week, in the case of single men, to £4 2s. 6d. a week for a man with a wife and three or more dependent children. In addition, the commission may provide up to £10 for the purchase of tools of trade by way of gift, and in special cases the commission may advance an additional amount up to £40 by way of loan for the same purpose. It is considered that the great majority of men who have been placed in employment will continue in their positions either permanently or for lengthy periods, subject, of course, to the usual percentage of changes common to the particular occupations in which they have been placed; but,  as  far  as  practicable, every endeavour has been made to secure for these men classes of employment which will afford every opportunity of permanency. The commission is to be highly commended for the enthusiasm it has displayed in this branch of its work. It desires to secure suitable employment for these ex-soldiers with a minimum of delay, and to this end the  Deputy  Commissioners report that considerable success has resulted from personal interviews with the men themselves. With the encouragement held out to them, they look upon the commission and its officers, in all of the States, as genuinely desirous of doing everything possible to enable them to take up the threads of their normal civil lives. By far the largest number of men has been registered in the New South Wales branch of the commission, where 235 had registered at the end of April, and only 27 were then awaiting employment. In Victoria 169 men had registered, and all had been placed in employment except eighteen. Honorable senators will realize that, for various reasons, it is not easy to place certain individuals in employment. Generally, however, the position is satisfactory. 
 Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware that under the law it is a mathematical impossibility for child endowment to be drawn on account of any child up to the age of sixteen years, except in respect of twins, triplets, quadruplets or quintuplets? 
'Child endowment payments will not be made only in respect of twins, triplets, quadruplets or quintuplets ; payment at the rate of 5s. a week will be made in respect of every child in a family, except the first, which is under the age of sixteen years. 
In the event of the Government deciding to construct a motor road from Port Augusta in South Australia to Norseman in Western Australia, will the Minister for the Interior consider starting work at both ends simultaneously? I refer particularly  to the  country  between  Norseman and Balladonia,  which is of  great importance to Western Australia. 
I shall bring  the  question of the honorable senator under  the  notice of my colleague,  the Minister for  the Army. 
Has the Minister  for Information any information  in  respect to Nazi No. 3, Herr Hess, other than what has already been published  in  the press? 
I have no other  information  to give to honorable senators. 
The reason I now refer to this matter is that the honorable member made a serious statement in connexion with certain transactions between the Department of Information and the proprietors of  Smith's Weekly.  At the outset, I wish to make it clear that the whole of the output of lead from the mine at Mount Isa has been at the disposal of the British Government since soon after the outbreak of war. None of the lead from that mine has been sent to Japan. 
No. The only product of the Mount Isa mine which has been sent to J apan is a shipment  of  about 1,500 tons  of  zinc concentrates each month. 
Those shipments are made under an arrangement with the British Ministry  of  Supply.  I  rose more particularly  to  refer  to  the following statement in the speech: - 
By action through the Department of Information,  Senator Foll  attempted to "blanket" the press by causing a certain censorship instruction to be issued. He also, I understand, sought practically to bribe the newspaper. The Department of Information causes advertisements to be published in the press from time to time at the expense of taxpayers, and certain advertisements were sent to this newspaper, which was asked to publish them' at a price. 
To-day, I received the following letter from  Sir Victor  Wilson, who is  chairman  of National Press Proprietary Limited, which controls  Smith's Weekly,  and who once was a member of the Senate: - 
This morning I had brought under my notice a statement made by a member of the House of Representatives with regard to the activities of your department with  Smith's Weekly. 
As chairman of the National Press Proprietary Limited, who control the publication of  Smith's Weekly,  I was astonished that the word " bribe " had been used in relation to any transactions or interviews that had taken place between the Department of Information and  Smith's Weekly. 
This paper is quite capable of taking care of itself and the member who made the speech had no authority whatsoever from this paper to make any such statement and neither is such statement true. 
Any transactions in relation to advertising between the Controller of Government Advertising and the representatives of  Smith's Weekly  had been carried out in accordance with ordinary business methods and at ordinary commercial rates. 
I regret this term has been used andI think it is most unfortunate. 
The advertising section of the Department of Information is under the control of  Mr. Hutcheson,  who was appointed some time ago to consolidate all government advertising in Australia.  Mr. Hutcheson's  appointment was discussed and approved by not only the Government, but also the War Advisory Council. In the conduct of his duties he has been able to adopt tried business methods. 
 His  services were made available by Lever Brothers Proprietary Limited to the Commonwealth Government without cost for the duration of the war. In releasing this highly capable officer in these circumstances, Lever Brothers Proprietary Limited have shown a very commendable spirit. 
Yes.  Mr. Hutcheson  gives his services to his country in exactly the same way as do a number of other prominent men engaged in munitions production.  Mr. Hutcheson  has been entrusted with the control of advertising and publicizing war loan activities, recruiting for the Royal Australian Air Force, the Australian Imperial Force and the Royal Australian Navy, and the war savings certificates campaign. In addition, he controls advertising for government commercial enterprises, such as the Apple and Pear Board. By consolidating the whole of the advertising work of the departments under the Controller of Government Advertising, we have been able to secure from publishers what are known as master contract rates, which are very much lower than ordinary advertising rates. In this way considerable savings have been effected. 
I have not the information before me, but I should say that it would amount to approximately £200,000. 
Yes. In some cases the schedule rate is only three-quarters of the casual rate. 
That does not enter into it at all. The Government would not be justified in loading all advertising rates because of some other advantage it might get. The decision to place the control of advertising under one authority ensures that the Government pays no more for its advertising than would be paid by private companies which conduct large advertising campaigns. I make this personal explanation to correct any misunderstanding that might arise as the result of the statements made in the House of Representatives last night by the honorable member for Reid. 
In view of the reduction of the wholesale price of lamb by approximately Ss. a' carcass, will the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and. Customs request the Prices Commissioner to undertake a further review of the retail price of lamb ? The retail price was recently fixed at a figure which represented a reduction of only ½d. per lb., or approximately ls. 10-Jd. a carcass. 
The price of meat is constantly under review by the Prices Commissioner. Only yesterday the prices of certain cuts of beef and lamb wore fixed at a figure which represented a considerable reduction of the prices formerly charged. I can assure the honorable senator that if there be a further reduction of the wholesale price of lamb, the Prices Commissioner will immediately take action to ensure that the consuming public gets the benefit. 
Within the last two days the Prices Commissioner fixed the price of lamb. As the honorable senator knows, lamb prices vary greatly from week to week, largely on account of matters beyond the control of any price-fixing authority. I can assure the honorable senator that the Prices Commissioner has his eye on the whole question of meat prices and will see that no exorbitant charges are made. 
The Assistant Minister has answered the honorable senator's question. 
An honorable senator has the right to ask a question, but he must accept the Minister's reply. 
Will the Assistant Minister endeavour to have the wholesale price of lamb increased in order to bring it into conformity with the present retail price of lamb? 
Will the Leader of the Senate supply the names of the members of the Commonwealth Government who are directors of companies and manufacturing concerns contracting with the Government for the supply of raw materials ? 
No. 
I ask the Min ister for Munitions whether it is the policy of his department to encourage decentralization in the building of new munition factories? Will he take into consideration the suitability of the district of Redbank, near Brisbane, for this purpose? 
The answer to the first part of the honorable senator's question is " Yes " ; and in respect of the latter part, I shall give consideration to the claims of the district he has mentioned. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate whether the Government will consider cancelling all contracts under which private enterprise pays the wages of men employed in the Commonwealth Public Service, and itself pay these wages ? Does the Government consider it right and proper that men doing Commonwealth Government work should be paid by private business interests? 
I shall bring the honorable senator's question under the notice of the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that under the National Security Act the Government has the power to take over the whole Australian banking system? 
Is it a fact that paragraph 504 of the report of the Royal Commission on Banking states that the Commonwealth Bank can lend interest-free money to the Government? 
Is it a fact that the Government will not give Parliament a chance of discussing this commission's findings, because its findings do not conform to the Government's present financial methods? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
It is not the practice to answer questions involving matters of law. 
Yes. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice- 
Is it a fact that a member of the Townsville Harbour Board interviewed one of the representatives of the Central Wool Committee in the early part of the year, submitting plans for approval for the purpose of building wool appraisement stores at Townsville? 
If so, were these plans acceptable to members of the Central Wool Committee? 
If such plans were unsuitable, what assistance (if any) was given to the representative of the Board in regard to plane and specifications for building a wool appraisement store suitable to the requirements of the Central Wool Committee? 
Did the Townsville Harbour Board offer to defray all expenses in the building of these stores? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
It is understood that this is so.  2  and 3. It is understood that the representative of the Central Wool Committee referred the inquirer to the Government because the matter involved questions which the Central Wool Committee was not in a position to deal with. 
It is understood that the Townsville Harbour Board has offered to meet the cost of certain buildings up to a stated limit. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
To what extent is Australia able to supply its own requirements of olive oil? 
Has any investigation been made into the possibilities of Australian-produced substitutes ? 
Is the Government prepared to encourage the production in Australia of sunflower-oil seed, said to be an excellent substitute for olive oil? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers .  - 
Australian requirements of olive oil average approximately 380,000 gallons, of which 30,000 gallons is produced locally and the balance imported. 
The manufacture in Australia of an olive oil substitute for textile lubrication has already been commenced under licence from England. This lubricant is approved by the Wool Industries Research Association of Leeds. 
Expert advice is to the effect that sunflower oil is of little value as a substitute for olive oil and the Government is not prepared to encourage the production of sunflower seed for the purpose of oil extraction. 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
All wheat of the 1939-40 harvest, with exception of wheat required for the farmers' own use on their farms or for sale as seed, has been acquired by the Federal Government. 
The Australian Wheat Board has been established under the provisions of the Wheat Acquisition Regulations to store and dispose of the wheat which has been acquired by the Federal Government. 3, 4 and 5. It is not the practice during the war to publish trade figures with individual countries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What amount of wheat in the respective pools is still unsold? 
What amount is sold and not yet paid for? 
What amount in money is owing to the Commonwealth for wheat sold? 
What is the present overdraft at the Commonwealth Bank on account of the combined pools? 
As at 26th April, 1941, the date of the last balancing period, the amount of wheat still unsold in the respective pools was as follows: - . 

<graphic href="167332194105296_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

As at 26th April, 1941, the amount of wheat sold and delivered  ex  the respective pools but notyetpaid for, was - 

<graphic href="167332194105296_6_1.jpg"></graphic>

At 26th April, 1941, the amounts owing to the board for wheat and flour sold and delivered to that date were - 

<graphic href="167332194105296_6_2.jpg"></graphic>

At 17th May, 1941, the total overdraft was £10,708,905. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the wool agreement between the Australian and British Governments is subject to review from clip to clip? 
If so, will the Government approach the British Government with a view to securing a better price for the wool-growers of Australia? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and 2. The arrangement provides that, in May of each year, either Government may seek a review of the conditions governing the acquirement of the wool. It is hoped, however, that the United Kingdom Government will be prepared to continue the arrangement in its present form. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister give an explanation or reasons why eucalyptus oil, Australian manufactured product, has risen from 15s. per gallon wholesale before the war to 32s. per gallon now? 
Is there any reason why cod liver oil should rise from 16s. per gallon before the war to 32s. 6d. now; if so, what are the reasons ? 
Can the Minister give any reason why there is a shortage of tartaric acid, and why it has gone up 33½ per cent, since the war started? 
Are any of these items taken into consideration in the cost-of-living figures? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers: - 
The wholesale selling price of refined eucalyptus oil of B.P. standard in 28-lb. tins has increased from 19s.11d. per gallon to 26s.1d. per gallon. Preliminary inquiries have established increased cost of obtaining crude oil because of dry seasons and bush fires, but the question whether the whole of this increase is due to these causes is still under investigation. 
Wholesale prices have increased from 11s. 6d. per gallon pre-war to 31s. 6d. per gallon at present, due to cessation of supplies from Norway, increased prices in the United Kingdom, increased marine freight, and insurance under war-time conditions. 
Shortage of tartaric acid is due to cessation of supplies of raw material from France and Italy, which were the main sources of supply before the war. The increase in price is due to increased cost of raw material imported since the outbreak of war. 
No. 
In moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn - 
I intimate to honorable senators that they are invited to attend a meeting of senators and members in the House of Representatives forthwith. 
I bring under the notice of the Senate the position that has arisen with regard to the proposed leasing by the Government of offices in the premises of London Stores Limited at the corner of Bourke and Elizabeth streets, Melbourne. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - On the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, a senator may discuss matters not relevant to the motion. 
On the 30th April, approximately 80 tenants in the premises of London Stores Limited received notices to quit. They occupied the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth floors of the building, and they were required to quit by the 30th May. It was stated in the notice received by them that their premises were required by the Commonwealth Taxation Department. The circumstances in which this notice to quit has been given are such that great injustice will be done to the tenants. Many of them are conducting small businesses which they have spent years in building up, and, in the event of their being forced to leave the premises, they will in all probability never be able to rehabilitate themselves. Among the businesses concerned are those of a chiropodist, a hairdresser, a dressmaker, a teacher of music, and an office cleaner. If no other suitable premises were available for the Taxation Department, there would be some justification for the action of the Government, which, I recognize, must have space for the accommodation of its departments; but other premises are available in Melbourne, and I suggest that they are more suitable, and are available at cheaper rentals than the offices proposed to be taken. I understand that the Government proposes to pay £12,000 a year as rent to London Stores Limited and to expend £12,500 in bringing about necessary structural alterations to the premises. Among other premises available are those of Advanx Automotive Industries. The following offer, dated the 13th May, 1941, has been forwarded to the Government :  - 125 William-street, Melbourne, C.l, Vic., Aust. 
DearSir, 
I hereby offer  a  lease to the Commonwealth Government on my building known as Advanx Automotive Industries, No. 175 Queen street, Melbourne. 
The building is situate one block from  the  General Post Office, Elizabeth street,  Melbourne,  and about fifty yards front Bourke street. 
It is a modern, reinforced, concrete structure with five floors and a total floor space  of  40,000 to 50,000 square feet. While it  is at  present used as a filling station, I have,  in  my possession, plans for its conversion  to  offices and would be pleased to let you  see  such plans. I should be glad to discuss  details  with you immediately to formally offer you a lease as follows: - 
Term, five years front date of possession. The three upper floors can  be  given immediately and the lower floors within a week or two. 
Rental, £5000 per annum,  payable  monthly. 
The Government to bear the costs  of  any initial alterations necessary  to  adjust the building  to its  requirements. I will consent  to all  such alterations so long as they  do not  affect the  actual  structure  of the  building. 
Rates to be paid by the tenant. 
I am prepared to grant an option  for  a further term if so desired. 
The lease to be prepared bymy  solicitors  and approved  of by  the  Crown  Solicitor. 
Yours faithfully,  (Signed)R. S.  Falkiner. 
It is  hard  to justify the action of  the  Government in the light of that offer. 
One of the most modern buildings in Melbourne, situated at 125 Swanstonstreet, could be leased by the Government. This is Century Building, which is eleven storeys high. It was erected only twelve months ago, is air-conditioned, and has two large passenger lifts, and 42,190 square feet of floor space. Within two days three floors could be made available, providing 12,000 feet of floor space, and from then onwards additional space could be provided, and the whole of the space could be made available by the 15th July next. The rent of these premises would be £14,263 10s. per annum. Ever since its erection, this building has been used for the administrative offices of the Royal Australian Air Force, which has a staff of about 800 persons. In my opinion the building is entirely suitable for the Taxation Department. If it were taken by that department no additional expense need be incurred for alterations. 
I was in communication with the secretary of the defence committee,  Mr. L.  K. Allan, representing the tenants of London Stores Limited, who had arranged to send to me an official intimation regarding Century Building, but, unfortunately, his letter missed the post and I shall not receive it until to-morrow. However, I telephoned to him and he furnished me with the particulars that I have given to the Senate. He states definitely that Century Building is available. At a deputation which waited on the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  consisting of  Senator Keane,  representatives of the tenants, the secretary of the defence committee,  Mr. L.  K. Allan and myself, I understood the Minister to say that those premises would be suitable. 
Apparently that is not correct.  Mr. Allan  has assured me that the solicitors representing the proprietors of Century Building are now prepared to allow the Government to have it for the use of the Taxation Department. I submit that the Government should not cause 80 tenants to have to leave their present premises in the building of London Stores Limited, because, in many cases, they would never be able to recover their businesses, even if other suitable premises could be obtained. In my opinion, Century Building is quite suitable for the purposes of the Taxation Department. 
The Minister has stated that his officers have reported that it is not suitable for the purposes of the Government. One of the many businesses conducted on the premises of 
London Stores Limited is that of a chiropodist, where the equipment is worth up to £500, and it would be of no use elsewhere. If the owner of the business desired to take a room in another building the first question put to the owner would be " What business do you follow ? " and, when the owner gave its nature, the answer, no doubt, would be, " We already have one chiropodist in the building, and we cannot let a room to you ", If she could not get a room elsewhere her equipment would be practically useless, and in the meantime she would lose her clients. Practically every tenant would be affected similarly to a greater or lesser degree. What does the Government expect to gain by adopting a policy of this kind? The yearly rental received by London Stores Limited is £8,458, and tho rent proposed to be paid by the Government represents a clear increase over that of from £2,500 to £3,000 a year. The manager of London Stores Limited, in a letter addressed to the tenants, stated,  inter alia - 
The Commonwealth wants the premises, and we feel that we must do our hit and co-operate with them as much as possible. " Do our bit " apparently means " provide another £2,500 or £3,000 a year for the company ". The letter proceeds - 
We feel sure you will agree' that it is everyone's duty to co-operate with the Government in its war effort. The sacrifice we are now asked to make is a small one. but it is quite obvious that if we had refused to do so the premises would have been requisitioned and you and ourselves would probably have been worse off. 
The emphasis is put on the word "sacrifice ". 
I am glad to hear the Minister's statement, for the suggestion had been made to me that the management was threatened that unless it agreed to lease the premises the Government would take possession of them. 
The letter from which I have quoted is signed by the joint managing director. It appears to me that in this connexion the company cannot be said to be " doing its bit," but undoubtedly it is taking action to compel about 80 desirable citizens of Melbourne to make a quite unnecessary sacrifice. Many of these people have relatives abroad serving in our forces, and they are certainly doing their bit to help in the national war effort. Their feelings can therefore be well imagined when they found that the Government was taking action of this description. 
The deputation which waited on the Minister was told by him that the matter was one between London Stores Limited and its tenants and not between the Government and the tenants. That, of course, is a pure quibble. If the Government had not taken action to obtain a lease of these premises the tenants would not have been given notice to quit. 
That may be true, but, at the same time, the risk was always there. 
Several meetings of the tenants have been held and  Senator Keane,  the honorable member for Melbourne  (Mr. Calwell)  and I have addressed them at various times. We have advised them to exhaust their. legal rights. I understand that the matter is to be argued in the Practice Court on Tuesday next, but I earnestly appeal to the Government not to lease these premises. It is not necessary for it to do so, for other suitable premises could be obtained at a lower cost and without calling upon the tenants in the London Stores building to make an unnecessary sacrifice. If the Government takes over the building as proposed, a good many of the tenants will undergo severe hardship. I admit that the Minister has said that the Government is prepared to consider sympathetically any claims by these tenants for compensation, but it is impracticable to compensate some of these people to the degree that would be necessary to really meet their needs. Even if compensation is granted in connexion with the removal of machinery, it will not go very far. No compensation will be payable in respect of the ]088 of goodwill of a business. Unfortunately, the , business that is  so  lost by these small traders may go to the Myer Emporium Limited or to some other big business concern. I emphasize that it is quite unnecessary to call upon these people to make the big sacrifice that will be involved in the loss of their business premises, and I urge the Government to reconsider the whole proposal on its merits, particularly in view of the fact that accommodation is available in the Century Building. 
I wish to emphasize the need for placing a guard at the Collie power-house. I should not have occupied time to discuss this matter at this stage except for the fact that the Senate is to adjourn this afternoon for several weeks. The Collie power-house is of considerable importance in Western Australia. Collie coal is transported all over that State, and if anything happened to the power-house production from the mine would have to cease, for no light would be available for mining operations. The mines would automatically be plunged into darkness. If that condition continued for some days the mines might be filled with water, and it might be impossible to put them into production again for years. That is the case from the point of view of Collie itself. But there is another aspect- of the subject which may be of even greater importance. Collie coal is used in very many parts of Western Australia, including Perth. It is the source from which power is obtained for many manufacturing and public utility operations throughout the State. If this source of supply were stopped operations in many parts of Western Australia would be seriously  impeded. Collie coal keeps in operation not only the power-house of Collie itself but also power-houses elsewhere. Collie coal is necessary for the maintenance of the pumping station to pump water to Kalgoorlie and also for other pumping stations elsewhere. It is hard to imagine anything worse happening in Western Australia than for the supply of Collie coal to be stopped. There was a guard over the power-house from September, 1939, to February, 1940, and we do not know why it was removed. I was at Collie a week or so ago and the people there are extremely concerned about the present position. I therefore urge the Government to take prompt action to meet the situation. 
I shall bring the request of  Senator Clothier  concerning the Collie power-house under the notice of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender). 
As to the proposed occupation of the London Stores building in Melbourne by the taxation authorities, I have, as  Senator Cameron  has said, already received a deputation. I have also had a certain amount of correspondence on the subject. The negotiations were conducted in the first place by the property officer of the Taxation Department with London Stores Limited. When the matter was first brought to my notice and I was asked to attend a meeting of tenants in Melbourne, I knew hardly anything about the transaction. I have since ascertained, however, that on account of the extension of the operations of the Taxation Department due to war exigencies, and the introduction of the pay-roll tax, additional accommodation became essential. A proposal to add a temporary floor on a section of the General Post Office in Elizabethstreet, Melbourne, to meet the requirements was found to be impracticable and had to be abandoned. The department was therefore compelled to look elsewhere for space, and it met with great difficulty in finding any that was suitable. London Stores Limited found itself able to offer the Government the lease of six floors of its building, and arrangements have been made to enter into occupation as from the 1st June. Practically all of the tenancies affected are of a weekly or monthly nature, and, having regard to the limited space each tenant is occupying, no insuperable difficulties should be experienced in the tenants finding other suitable accommodation. A substantial number of the tenants has already moved out of the building or made arrangements to do so. I believe that 50 out of the 70 affected have already vacated their premises. The honorable senator suggested that the Advanx building in Queen-street would be suitable for occupation by the Taxation Department. That building was specially constructed for garage premises. It has been roundly condemned by the Works Department as totally unsuitable for office accommodation for it lacks lifts, lighting and conveniences. The Government is not prepared at present to erect additional offices in Melbourne, but, in any case, the urgency of the need for accommodation to meet immediate taxation requirements is such that it will not permit of delay while a new building can be constructed. All sections of the community must realize that during the war the demands of the Government in various directions call for some re-adjustment and citizens should be prepared at this time to subordinate their convenience to the paramount needs of the Government. I have given an instruction to the property officer of my department in Melbourne to look into any complaints that tenants may have, in order to decide whether some compensation should be paid by the Government in respect of reasonable removal expenses, especially in instances where machinery has to be dismantled and installed elsewhere. 
Immediately after the honorable senator introduced to me the deputation to which I have referred, I submitted the matter to the War Cabinet, which happened to be sitting that day, and it was agreed that favorable consideration and reasonable compensation should be given in hardship cases, particularly where machinery had to be removed. The honorable senator made some reference to rental charges. I have obtained some information respecting the amounts that are to be paid.  Senator Cameron  stated that an amount of £12,000 would be necessary to meet the cost of structural alterations. I am advised - and I accept the advice of my officers - that the total amount that will need to be expended by the Commonwealth Government to make these six floors suitable for occupation by the Taxation Department will be £6,500. It is not possible to compare, in any exact way, the rent that has been paid by the tenants in this building with that which will be paid by the Commonwealth, for the Commonwealth is taking over an extra floor. London Stores Limited has vacated its own workshop on the top floor in order to make the space available to the Government. I am also advised that the statement that the Commonwealth Government will be paying a higher rent than that paid by the tenants is also incorrect. The rental paid by the tenants for an area of 38,085 square feet is at the rate of 4s. 7¼d. a square foot without cleaning. If cleaning be included the rental would be increased to 5s. 7¼d. a square foot. A charge of ls. a square foot is generally recognized in Melbourne for office cleaning. The rental to be paid by the Commonwealth for an area of 45,010 square feet is at the rate of 5s. 5id. a square foot, which includes passages which are being taken over as office space and also cleaning costs. The Government therefore will be paying l£d. a square foot less than the tenants were paying. 
This is because the Government is taking over an extra floor. Until the honorable senator mentioned the matter this afternoon, I had no idea that Century Building was available. Before the deputation of tenants waited on me, I had raised the question as to the availability of the building for use by the Taxation Department, because I knew that the Air Force authorities were leaving that building in order to occupy their own premises at Victoria Barracks. 1 shall make some further inquiries regarding Century Building and should I find that I have been wrongly informed there will be trouble. I discussed with  Mr. Jackson,  the Commissioner of Taxation, the possibility of using that building, and he said that it was not entirely suitable for the needs of his depart ment. I was told definitely that it had been allocated for use in connexion with munitions. 
I cannot say offhand, because this matter is already well advanced. To-day, I have taken two steps in regard to it; I have ordered fresh inquiries to be made in order to ascertain whether Century Building is available, and I have asked the  chairman  of the Valuation Board in Melbourne to supply me with an independent valuation and a report on the price that London Stores Limited propose to charge the Government for their building. The valuation already received was made by the Taxation Department's valuer and by my department's property officer in Melbourne. The valuation for which I have asked will be a further check. I hope to have information on the subject later this afternoon, but at this stage I cannot say whether or not there will be any alteration of the arrangements. The transaction has practically been completed, and the Taxation Department desires to become established in suitable quarters as quickly as possible. Like the honorable senator, I deplore the necessity for disturbing the tenants of the London Stores Building. Some of them are particularly unfortunate in that they have installed expensive machinery without taking steps to protect themselves by means of leases. Others, who took the precaution to obtain leases, will have to be given adequate compensation for the termination of those leases. 
This afternoon I asked a question in relation to child endowment, and if the reply of the Assistant Minister  (Senator Leckie)  was right, then the department administering the scheme is wrong. I asked whether it was not a mathematical impossibility for child endowment to be paid on account of children up to the age of sixteen, except in respect of twins, triplets, quadruplets or quintuplets. I have in mind  a  family in which there are three children aged 15, 10 and 5 years respectively. When the first child reaches the age of  sixteen, the second child will be eleven years of age. It then becomes the first child, and no further payment will be made in respect of it. That is to say, no endowment will be paid in respect of that child after it reaches the age of eleven years. If my reasoning be correct, child endowment will not be paid on account of any child up to the age of sixteen years except, as I have said, in the case of multiple births. After the Assistant Minister had replied to my question this afternoon, I rang the department and was informed that my interpretation of the scheme was correct. Many members of Parliament areof the same opinion as is the Assistant Minister. 
Throughout the country there is a totally wrong impression regarding the child endowment scheme ; thousands of people believe that child endowment will be paid until each child in a family, except the first, reaches the age of sixteen years. The form of claim for child endowment gives certain information for the guidance of claimants. Clause 7 states - 
Endowmentis not payable in respect of any child for any period after - 
the child reaches the age of sixteen years. 
There are two interpretations of the scheme. A friend of mine,  Mr. Ben  Taylor, has prepared a table showing what would be paid in respect of his children under the different interpretations.  Mr. Taylor  says that if endowment be not paid in respect of all children over sixteen years of age, it should be paid in respect of all children up to sixteen years of age. The table, which I have his permission to use as I wish, is as follows: - 

<graphic href="167332194105296_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

I ask the Minister to give to this matter his earnest attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development inform the Senatewhether he is satisfied with the progress that is being made in connexion with the Newnes shale oil project at Glen Davis? Will he also state whether the Government recently made another large advance to National Oil Proprietary Limited? Can the Minister assure the Senate that this company has actually produced oil from shale at Glen Davis, as claimed by the Minister for External Affairs, when he performed the opening ceremony at the company's work at Glen Davis? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether the pipe line recently completed from the Glen Davis oil works to the railway line is working satisfactorily? 
The Government is not completely satisfied with the. progress made at the Newnes shale oil plant. The result has been disappointing, inasmuchas the Government had expected a greater output of oil than is now being obtained, but steps, which I believe will meet with success, are already being taken to overcome the difficulties that have been encountered. These have mainly occurred in connexion with the retorting of the shale. The Governmenthas made another advance to National Oil Proprietary Limited to enable it to carry on the further reconstruction work which is necessary owing to the present unsatisfactory position. I was advised only two days ago that the pipe line is working satisfactorily. I was told that petrol had been pumped from it, and that there was no sign of leakage throughout the whole length of the line. 
I have received from  Dr. Alva  J. Boyd a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of the Honorable James Arthur Boyd. 
I have received from  Mr. Berry  Hay a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of  Mr. Alexander  Hay. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister inform the Senate whether the honorable member for Henry  (Mr. Coles)  recently admitted that he was " guilty of a small deceit " in order to obtain £750 worth of dollars to enable him to travel from New Zealand to England ? Does the Government approve of the example set to Australia by a member of this Parliament in obtaining dollar exchangeby deceit? Would not the 3,000 odd dollars involved have been better expended on essential imports from the United States of America? Did the Commonwealth Government pay any part of the expenses incurred by  Mr. Coles  during his investigations in England on behalf of the Government? 
I shall refer the honorable senator's questions to the Prime Minister, and get a reply to them. 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development inform the Senate whether any special consideration, in connexion with the rationing of petrol, is given to one-legged persons, or to persons otherwise incapacitated, who use their motor cars to enable them to earn a livelihood? 
Invalids . and those who need their cars to enable them to earn a living receive special consideration. They should apply to the Liquid Fuel ControlBoard in the State in which they reside. The board will then consider their case, and give to them the appropriate ration. 
Is there any moratorium covering men in the motor car industry, particularly drivers of hire cars, who are purchasing motor vehicles on the hire-purchase system? 
The question of granting relief to persons in the motor car industry who are in financial difficulties because of war conditions is engaging the attention of the Government, but until a decision has been arrived at, I cannot give any information to the honorable senator. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that persons who are purchasing utility trucks and other motor vehicles under hire-purchase agreements from financiers will be protected against the seizure of their vehicles? 
At the moment, I cannot see any good reason why the suggestion should not be given effect; indeed, there aire sound reasons why it should be adopted. However, I shall consider the matter, and announce my decision later. 
Should, the suggestion be agreed, to would an honorable senator who had . obtained leave of absence, for any reason also be entitled to have the reason for his absence recorded? 
 Yes, if he enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. ....  - -  
Can the Minister representing- the Minister for the Army say whether it is the practice of the Department of the Army to stop allotments made by soldiers to their dependants on receipt of information that an Australian soldier serving- abroad has been posted as missing-? 
 That is not the practice. Payment to a soldiers dependants is continued, for a period of three months in such circumstances, after which, I understand, the Repatriation Department pays to dependants the repatriation benefits authorized by law. There is no lag between the payment by the Department of the Army and the receipt of repatriation benefits. 
Is it the policy of the Government to make some payment to the next of kin, either by way of- a pension or otherwise, pending the receipt of the finding of a court of inquiry into the disappearance of a soldier? That has been done in one case to my knowledge. I should like to know whether that is the general practice? 
As the Minister representing the Minister for the Army has pointed out, the Army pay of soldiers posted as missing is continued to their dependants for a period of three months. Alter that time, should, the missing soldier not be discovered, -his dependants receive repatriation benefits. Should the missing soldier subsequently be. found alive, an adjustment is. made between the two rates of payment. I understand that any next of kin who may be eligible for a pension under the Repatriation. Act would be paid, but I shall look into the matter and make sure that that is the procedure. 
-Some time ago I asked a question in relation to Nazi No. 8, Herr Hess. In view of the many rumours, which are detrimental to recruiting arid to the prosecution of the war, can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army say whether the Government will make representations to the British authorities with a. view to obtaining the full facts regarding Herr Hess and his relations with certain people in the Old Country ? 
Apart from the press statements that Herr Hess left, his fellow gangsters' in Germany in order to save his skin, no information concerning him lias come to hand. 
The Dominion Governments arc kept fully informed of any information in the possession of tiro British Government in regard to matters of this kind. 
 Is information being withheld from the public? 
asked the Minister .representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
For tlie purpose o£ tlie future lumb and pork export trade, is it tlie intention of tlie Government to provide additional cool storage in the States concerned, so as to cope with supplies until overseas shipping is available? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 
The arrangements proposed by the Government for the handling of pork and lami) have been published. Sufficient cold storage has been provided to enable these arrangements to be carried out. 
asked the Ministor representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister seen the advertisement appearing in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  of Mon Jay,  19th  May, 1941, reading as follows:- "H.M.A.S. 'Australia.' Canteen - To all whom it may concern : 1, S. V.  Zammit.  of Burwood, New South Wales, tenant of the above canteen, hereby give notice that I alone am responsible for all debts contracted or obligations or liabilities incurred in connexion with the canteen on H.M.A.S. 'Australia1, and .that the Commonwealth of Australia, the Commanding Officer of H.M.A.S. 'Australia,', and thu members of the Ship's Company are not nor are any of them responsible or liable in any way for any debts contracted or obligations whensoever or howsoever incurred or other liabilities arising out of or in respect of or in connexion with or incidental to the establishment or management of the said canteen or otherwise howsoever in relation thereto."? 
Will the Minister explain to the Senate the circumstances under which such advertisement has been made necessary? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answers : - 
Yes. 
.Some cases have boon brought to notice where canteen tenants in His Majesty's Australian Ships have Failed, at least temporarily, to meet their financial obligations to their creditors for canteen stocks 'purchased, and creditors have written to the Navy Department in an endeavour to hasten payment. Accordingly a clause has been inserted, on the advice of the Crown Law Department, in the agreement governing canteen tenancies, providing that when a canteen tenant signs the agreement he is to insert in a daily newspaper of pa-It  capital  city a notice staling that he alone is responsible for canteen debts. 
asked the Minister representing tlie Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Government institute a departmental inquiry into the question as to whether or not the Commonwealth Statistician's figures for house rents in the city of Launceston properly represent the correct figure? 
If not, will the Government make known the names of the people who supply the figures iu question? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 1 and 2. Data as to rents arc supplied each quarter by representative house agents in respect of a large sample of houses inspected and selected by Government Field Officers. There is a Field Officer j.n Tasmania whose duty it is to see that these rents arc correctly recorded for Launceston and other centres. A Supervising field Officer periodically inspects the work of the Field Officer to ensure that it is well and faithfully done. The whole is regularly reviewed each quarter by an experienced senior officer under the control of the Commonwealth Statistician. The Supervising Field Officer has just completed bis regular periodical inspection of the work on collection of prices and rents in Tasmania and will confer with the Commonwealth Statistician at an early date. I will ask the Statistician to make a special examination of. the house rents of the city of Launceston in order to meet the honorable senator's wishes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
In what currency are Australian troops paid in  (a)  Libya, and (!&gt;) Egypt? 
At what rate of exchange is Australian money converted into this currency? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers : -  1. (a) Egyptian;  (h)  Egyptian. 
f i Egyptian equals f i us. Sd. Australian currency. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice -  ]. What is the rental proposed or agreed to be paid by the Government for the lease, for the use of the Taxation Department, of 3ix floors of the London Stores Building, situated at the corner of Bourke and Elizabeth streets, Melbourne, Victoria? 
Does such rental include payment for lift and cleaning services, and, if so, what is the estimated cost of such services? 
In the event of the leasing or, if ithas been decided to lease the floors in question, what amount of money does the Government pro pose to spend for the making of necessary structural alterations ? 
Were any buildings in Melbourne, other than the London Stores Building, inspected by the officers of the Government with a view to leasing any one of them in preference to the London Stores Building? 
If so, what buildings were they and where are they situated? 
In what respect were they regarded as being unsuitable as compared with the London Stores Building? 
Is it a fact that, should the Government take possession of the six floors referred to in the London Stores Building, many of the tenants who will be forced to leave the premises will be unable to find other rooms which would be suitable for their different businesses, and, in consequence,much of their equipment will become practically valueless? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
£12,342 10s. 
Yes. The rental includes lift and cleaning services.Cleaning services are estimated to be worth1s. per squarefootper annum. No separate estimate for the lift serviceshas been made. 
£6,500. 
Yes. The valuers attached to the Taxation Department are familiar with city buildings. Several buildings were suggested by them and were inspected. 
Century House, in Bourke-street; Craig's Building, in Elizabeth-street, and the Advanx Garage, in Queen-street. 
Century House was. not available at the time of original inquiries, but if it had been, the accommodation would not have been regarded as suitable. Theaccommodation is spread over ten floors and the rental is considerably in excess of that of the London Stores Building. Craig's Building was designed for an emporium. Extensivealterations would be necessary to make it suitable for offices. The alterations would have been costly and could not have been effected in the time available. The lifts are small and inadequate and arc situated at the back of the building. Stairways are inadequate, natural light is defective. The City Council will not allow full use of the building as offices owing to fire risk. Although the building was partially occupied at the time by the Military Department, that department has since moved out to a building more suitable for office purposes. The Advanx Building has been specially constructed and used as garage premise's. It lacks lifts, lighting and conveniences. 
It is believed that the tenants who have left the London Stores Building have found suitable premises elsewhere. The Government has undertaken to give favorable consideration to compensating tenants for reasonable removal expenses. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
What principle actuated the Government in deciding to pay £34,000 as contributionto the League ofNations? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questionis as follows :  - 
In deciding to pay its contribution for 1941 to the League of Nations, the Commonwealth Government took into account the following considerations:- (1 ) The League and kindred organizations are still performing practical tasks of great utility. Some part of the League's work is now being carried on atthe Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, in the United States of America, and the International Labour Office is installed at the McGill University, Montreal, Canada. The work ofthe League in economic and financial matters and in the control of the opium traffic is regarded as of particular importance. (2) There is a wide recognition that it is necessary to maintain in being some organization for international collaboration. (3) The members of the British Common wealth were in favour of continuing financial support to the League (4) Every possible effort has been made to cut down League expenditure. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Has the investigation into the matter of the alleged unauthorized appropriation of defence material at the Ordnance Workshops, Seymour, Victoria, been completed? 
If so, with what result; but, if not, when is the investigation likely to be completed? 
The Minister forthe Army has supplied the following answer :  - 1 and 2. The investigations into the matter of the alleged unauthorized appropriationof defence material at the Ordnance Workshops, Seymour, Victoria, have not yet been completed. These inquiries are being expedited asmuch as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What quantities of the following fruits have been supplied by the Apple and Pear Board or other organizations tothe military camps during the past twelve months: - (a) Apples; (b) pears; (c) bananas? 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
Inquiries are beingmade and a reply will be furnished to thehonorable senator as early as possible. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,upon  notice -  1.Is it a fact that there are bowsers empty throughout Australia that could be used for storage for petrol? 
If so, will the Government take them over, fill them, and seal them, as a reserve in case of emergency ? 
Is it a fact that some oil storage depots for wholesale purposes, capable of storing 10,000 gallons andmore, are holding their stocks as low as 2,000 gallons? 
If so, will the Government make provision to utilize all the available storage space for petrol (whether owned privately or otherwise) in case of an emergency? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Because of the reduced consumption of motor spirit and the marketing of a single grade, there aremany underground tanks at garage and service station premises which couldbe used for the storage of petrol. 
The plans for emergency storage include the use of tanks at service stations and garages, and details are now being worked out in collaboration with the Army. 
It is known that due to very heavy buying of petrol at the end of March, the stocks at some inland storage depots became somewhat depleted, but action has. since been taken to see that these are replenished and to ensure thatas far as practicable, the gallonage held at each depot in future shall not fall below a specified minimum, based on our likely emergency requirements. 
TheGovernment will utilize all a vailable petrol storage's in case of anemergency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice- 
Is it a fact that at Scone, Singleton and Maitland, New South Wales, on sale days recently pork pigs have been sold for approximately 3d. per lb., and that pork is retailed in Sydney from1s. 2d. to .1s. 4d.. perlb. ? 
If so, will he direct the Prices Commissioner to review immediately the retail price of porkin Sydney? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
The prices paid for pork pigs at Scone, Singleton and Maitland during the last month have not been as low as 3d. per lb.; in feet the lowest price during the last month has been6d. per lb. A retail price of1s. 2d. perlb. for the more expensive cuts has been charged in Sydney during the last month and this price is in proper relationship to the price paid for pork pigs. 
See answer toNo. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice- 
Does the Minister for Commerce consider it important to encourage cadets to . enter the merchant shipping service in order to ensure a supply of trained officers, engine ratings and deck ratings? 
Is it a. fact that lack of suitable accommodation on deck has in the past prevented many lads who have already received preliminary training on land, from going to sea. as cadets? 
Does the Minister think it desirable, in regard to the new merchant vessels which are to be built for the Commonwealth Government, to provide sufficient extra deck accommodation to house such cadets and boys? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes; on 30thJune last year there were 347 apprentices, ordinary seamen and boys employed on Australian ships.This number represents5½ per cent. of the total number employed on that date and is sufficient for normal requirements. In addition, large numbers of young seamen arc being trained  by  theAr my. 
Some lads,but not many, have been prevented from joining ships because of lack of suitable accommodation. Some time ago the department was requested to permit the closing of hospital accommodation to enable boys to be carried on certain cargo ships. This was not approved, as in addition to the undesirability of taking away the hospital space, it was considered that the ships were not suitable for training purposes. 
The matter of making provision for the carriage of boys on the ships to he built by the Shipbuilding Board willbe discussed with the Board. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
What is the cost of providing the proposed new lighthouse-keeper's quarters at Low Head, Tasmania ? 
When tenders were called for a brick residence, were alternative tenders called for concrete ? 
If not, why not? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are a.s follows : - 
The completed, cost is not yet available, but a contract has been let for £2,100. 
No. 
In view of the very exposed position this building was required to be strongly constructed, and owing to the- difficulty of weatherproofing a concrete building it was considered that it would be advisable to construct in brick. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice-* - 
What steps are being taken to establish the magnesium industry in Tasmania? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 
For some considerable period a. company has been carrying out preliminary investigations iri connexion with proposals for establishing the magnesium industry in Tasmania. I understand that at the present time a pilot plant is being brought into operation by that company. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Government confer with the Government of  Tasmania  with a view to making some satisfactory arrangements to assist those fruitgrowers in Tasmania who lost 100 per. cent, of their crops through hail, frost, and wind  damage 
-The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The Commonwealth Government has considered this matter and is not prepared to make any financial arrangements to assist' fruit-growers who have sustained losses through hail, frost, and wind damage. Loan moneys have been made , available to the- Government of Tasmania for the relief of berry fruit-growers. 
The Minister for Commerce will discuss  with  State Ministers of Agriculture at the meeting-  of the Agricultural Council now being held at Canberra the question of State government schemes for insurance by fruit-growers against losses through hail, frost, and wind damage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for .Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the fixing of a minimum price for potatoes this year? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer:- 
The matter of potato prices is now under consideration .and an early statement on this subject will bc made by the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Does the Government intend to restore the fertilizer subsidy? 
If not, will, the Minister inform the Senate what is the present position as to prices and supplies available? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 1 and 2. All aspects of the fertilizer position are at present under consideration. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
In view of the Government's decision to build the east-west road, will the Minister assure the Senate that the standardization of the railway gauges is still under consideration? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows: - 
Yes. Having regard, however, to all the circumstances and particularly to tlie expenditure which would be involved, it is regretted that provision for this work could not be included' in the present defence programme of the Commonwealth. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is a canteen order purchased for £1 in Australia redeemable at ils face  value  when cashed, at a canteen by a. soldier serving anywhere overseas ? 
If not, what conversion rate is charged? 
The issue of canteen orders is controlled by the defence authorities, the post office merely acting as selling agent. The question, therefore, is really one forthe Army Minister, but I am able to submit the following information :  - 
Canteen orders are not now issued in £1 denomination, the highest value being5s., viz., 2s.,3s. and 5s. Canteen orders cannot be cashed but can only be exchanged at a canteen for goods up to the value of the order in the currency of the country in which the canteen is located. 
Goods in canteens arepriced in the currency of the country in which the canteen is located and the value of the canteen order is converted into the same currency at the ruling rate of exchange, so the recipient of the order gets goods to the full face value of the order. In some cases the goods are cheaper than in Australia, so that the soldier gets greater value than hewould for the same order in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Australia will have to import large quantities of SouthernRhodesian tobacco to supplement the local crop in order to meet home demand this year? 
Is the action of a later Parliament in reducing the tariff protection affordedto tobacco during the term of the Scullin Government responsible for the inability of Australia to meet her own requirements in that commodity to-day? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes, from Southern Rhodesia and probably other sources. 2.No. 
The answers tothe honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Yes. The rental of the nineteen cottages at Rawlinna has been increased from 24s. 9d. to 28s. per fortnight due to the provision of a bathroom and an additional bedroom. 
Yes. If the bathroom and the additional bedroom in respect of which the increased rental of1s. 7½d.per week is being charged had been  provided  at the time the residences were originally constructed, the rental would have equalled approximately that which is now being charged. 
I move - 
That a joint committee of the Parliament he appointed to inquire into and report upon all matters relating to - 
the composition, functions and operations of theFlax Board. 
That three members of the Senate and four members of the House of Representatives be appointed to serve on such committee. 
That the committee be empowered to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during the adjournment of Parliament. 
That a message be sentto the House of Representatives requesting its concurrence and asking that four members be appointed to serve on such committee. 
My purpose in moving this motion is to endeavour to assist the Minister, the Government, the Flax Production Committee, or whoever maybe administering this industryby having a select committee appointed to investigate and report upon the production of flax in Australia. My object is to have the flax industry placed upon a sound footing, so that it will be of some real value in post-war reconstruction. From investigations which I have made, I believe that if this industry continues along existing lines it lias no prospect whatever of being established as a post-war industry. That is what I am vitally concerned with at present. I am not unmindful of how flax production in this country was rushed upon the Commonwealth Government by the British Government, nor am I unmindful of the haste with which the mills had to be erected to get the industry established. The State governments have co-operated in an endeavour to make theproject a success, and now that the industry is in operation,those who have taken an interest in its development can see quite clearly that great improvements could be effected in certain directions. We can also see that although it is hoped to increase the output by 100 per cent. next year, unless some drastic alterations are made, the whole industry will be thrown into a state of chaos. It is to avoid such an eventuality that I suggest the appointment of a select committee. I shall cite some of tlie deficiencies at present manifesting themselves in the production of flax - deficiencies which in due course will prevent the undertaking from becoming a successful post-war industry. I shall start by describing the layout of the mills. I realize that the Government had  to'  depend on outside advice, or in other words, upon whatever , so-called experts could be obtained. The. laying-out of a flax-producing plant' is a task for an engineer who has a. full knowledge of the industry. He should know all the processes in the .production of fibre .from flax, and without that knowledge he would not be an. experienced engineer in that sphere of industry. The various component buildings of the present" mills have been laid out in such a way that thu cost of production is excessive owing to unnecessary handling. I shall outline for the information of honorable senators some of the processes through which the flax has to pass, and the set-up of the plant generally. The. Government purchases the flax as it comes from the field. It is then stacked in paddocks either adjacent to the mills or in suitable locations nearby. It has to be loaded on lorries and carted from the stacks to the deseeding shed, and after it leaves the de-seeding shed it is dew-retted or pitretted. At present, the Flax Board is experimenting with a more modern process which will dispense with much of  this  work, but at present we are depending on dew-retting and pit-retting. After it has been pit-retted, it is taken from the pits on lorries to another shed called the drying shed, and when it has been dried, it is again loaded on lorries and taken to the  skutching  shed. From .there it is carted to the store shed. The existing plants are so laid out that constant handling and carting pf the product at its various stages is involved. In fact, the handling and carting is so extensive that the flax is very nearly retted before it goes to the retting pits. The haphazard location of the various .buildings suggests that the plan for them was prepared by throwing a handful of chips into the air and marking the places where they landed as the sites for sheds. -Had the designing engineer known the .various processes involved in the production of flax ' fibre, 'he would have laid out the buildings in such a way as to involve the minimum of handling and transport, and enough money would have been saved to build Dutch barns at the end of the mills to house practically the whole of the flax instead of stacking it in the paddocks. The flax then could have been, conveyed right through the mill without ever going ou to a lorry except, perhaps, for carting to the paddocks for dew-retting, and an enormous saving in production cost3 could have been effected. Although the mills are now established, I claim that it would be most beneficial to the industry if the various sheds were moved to their proper locations, thus facilitating more economic operation. Then we come to the de-seeding of the straw. Some of the mills have their own winnowers supplied to them by the Government, but they are not finishing and grading a perfectly clear article. After the material comes from the winnowers, it has to he graded by some private firm at so much a bushel. Some mills have not had big winnowers supplied by the Government, and are operating small hand machines. One could say that that system of processing and cleaning seed went down with the  Titanic  many years ago. I have given only a few examples of avenues in which savings could be effected. Then we come to the temporary mills which had to be erected rapidly to aid ns for the time being. Some of these are handling as large a quantity of flax as is being handled at the permanent mills, in the face of difficulties which, to my mind, are appalling. To illustrate my point, I mention in particular the mill at Lilydale, about IS miles from Launceston. Many hundreds of tons of flax were brought to that mill, and after it was de-seeded it was taken out into the paddocks to be dew retted. Some of the paddocks are so steep that nobody could stand on a lorry to throw the sheaves off, and therefore they had to be poked off. From my experience it would be impossible for any lorry to be driven along, the sides of, and up and down, those hills in damp weather in order to load the flax.  Much  of the flax would have to be gathered and sledged to level ground to enable it to be loaded on the lorries and taken to the mill. When it is carried back to the mill most of it is  placed in another stack at the same mill-, side. It stays there for a considerable time, after which it is loaded on a lorry and taken another 37 miles on a hush road to Scotsdale to be scutched. But even the Scotsdale mill is only a temporary one, and there is the same loading and unloading across a paddock to and from the- showground sheds where the machinery has been- set up. The seed which was separated at Lilydale has to be loaded on a lorry and' carried to a winnower at Scotsdale, and' then carted the same distance back to Launceston to be cleaned, whereas it could have been taken to Launceston in the first place. It may be necessary to establish further mill's, although on a small scale, in order to save the wastage due to carriage over such a long .distance. 
I shall now refer to some of the other temporary mills, because I consider that honorable senators should bc made aware of what is taking place. There is unnecessary handling' in carrying the flax out of the stacks and into the mills, and it is being transferred into sheds that are unsuitable for the purpose. There are three or four handlings in getting the flax to the de-seeding plant, and three or four more in. conveying it from that plant to the lorries. Then it has to go through the same process as I have mentioned for dew retting. It is brought back, in the majority of cases, and stacked in the mill where it is left lying for some time. Then it is loaded on another lorry and taken to another mill- to be scutched. If we have to dew ret the flax, I do not see why it should not be loaded on the lorry in level paddocks and carried direct to the scutching mill. I shall now describe the process of cleaning the seed in one .of the temporary mills. One is an old brewery which. is totally unsuitable for such work. After the flax is deseeded, the seed is carried to another floor by means of a block and . rope operated by hand.. It is then cleaned by means of a small hand .winnower, after ..which it is lowered down by . means of a block and tackle to the bottom floor, and has to be sent another 30 miles along the coast to be graded. I claim that adequate machinery could be installed to not only roughly clean the .seed, but also grade it at the same time. An electric- power line runs past the mill, and, by means of a dynamo, a few cog wheels and a belt, an up-to-date winnower could be installed. This would enable the cleaning to be done on a more economic basis than' at present. Another permanent mill is situated at Wynyard, and, in ordinary seasons, it would be located in a swamp. The shed being used is totally unsuitable for a flax mill. The- prod.net has to he handled- three- or four times to be taken into the shed to be de-seeded, and it has to be handled two or three times more to be put back into the same shed to be scutched. After scutching it has- still to be handled two or three times again before it is got rid of. If this industry is to survive, it will be necessary to lay out the mills on proper lines. There is another mill at Smithton. I was so disgusted with what I had seen at the other mills that I did- not visit the Smithton mill when I was told: that the flax was handled to and f-rom the mill at Smithton by means of a team of bullocks and a wagon. That is the archaic means of transport adopted at one' of the mills that has been passed as a permanent establishment. If the lay-out of the mills were right in the first place, there would- be no need for lorries, horse-wagons, or bullock- drays to handle the flax into, the mills- and to the different sheds.- 
I should like a committee appointed to investigate the various phases of processing fibre from flax. At present, it is being processed in Tasmania, and in most 6f the-mainland mills by a system. of dew-retting. I understand that in England and. Ireland and elsewhere, pitretting ' is used extensively. Pits have recently been constructed at the Hagley mill for the purpose of pit-retting flax. If. this method be necessary - and' I claim that it would be of great advantage - it is time steps were taken to install" pits at the other permanent mills while  suitable  labour is available for that class of work. I contend that pit-retting offers a tremendous saving as compared with  dewretting,  and would not be so risky. If we had experienced normal weather conditions in Tasmania this year, instead of a phenomenally dry season, it is quite on the cards that we should have lost one half of the flax that was lying out to be dew-retted. If we get a break in the weather during the next few weeks, we shall lose practically the whole of the flax which is bring dew-retted. 
I am speaking only from investigations that I have made, and I have found thatwhen the flax has been continuously wet, the fibre rots after it is dried. 
I am referring to the dew-retting of flax that has been continuously wet. I have known wet weather to continue for 30 days without a break. In view of the phenomenal spell of dry weather, we have been very fortunate in Tasmania this season, but we cannot expect the dry conditions to continue throughout the year. If there is any other way of processing fibre from flax without the danger of losing one-half of the crop, that is what we want to find out. 
In a properly equipped drying shed. I desire to assist the Government to make this industry a success. My object in bringing the matter forward is toendeavour to make this a. post-war industry, and I ask for the co-operation of honorable senators opposite, as well as the assistance that I know I shall have from my colleagues on the Opposition side of the chamber. I do not suggest that dew-retting could be entirely dispensed with, but, if we could build sufficient pits, the whole of the flax could be dealt with by the pit-retting process. Which is the better method is a matter on which there is disagreement. Some claim that dew-retting is the superior process, and others say that pitretting gives equally good results. 
Yes. If the weather is too fine, or too wet, the dewretting process is interfered with, and therefore if pit-retting will produce a fibre equal to that obtained from dewretting, it would be wise to install pits for the purpose. Moreover, other means of treating the flax may be found if an inquiry were instituted. I have been informed that two decorticators have been ordered by theFlax Production Committee. Should the machines be successful, there will be no need for the retting process. I understand also that there is in Australia a gentleman who has carried out fairly extensive experiments in connexion with the decorticating of flax, but that no facilities have been afforded to him to continue his investigations. I cannot vouch for the accuracy of that information, but I believe that it is authentic. 
At this stage I do not propose to mention any individual by name. I merely say that a certain gentleman has carried out fairly extensive experiments by which fibre has been obtained from flax without either dewretting or pit-retting. I understand that his experiments proved that after the flax had passed through the decorticator there was much less bulk to handle than when other processes were employed and also that by dew-retting the fibre, for a certain period after leaving the machine, its quality was improved. Unfortunately, that gentleman has not been given charge of one of the machines ordered by the Flax Production Committee. If, as is stated, the process of decorticating flax by means of these machines is still in the experimentalstage, I cannot understand why four of them were ordered. I am amazed that this man, who has devoted so much of his time to experimenting with flax, should not have been given charge of one of the machines. Indeed until I told him that four machines had been manufactured he had no knowledge that they had been ordered. I desire the appointment of a committee in order that various phases of the processing of flax fibre and also the suitability of certain localities for the erection of mills may be investigated. 
I certainly know more about the erection of mills for the processing of fibre from flax than does  the engineer who designed the mill to which I have referred. However, I shall not criticize him now, because I want to see this industry established in Australia. The appointment of a committee would enable the layout of mills to be investigated, and would provide an opportunity to obtain valuable information from persona interested in the growing and processing of flax. At the conclusion of its investigations, the committee would be in a position to furnish a report which should be of great value to the Government, members of this Parliament, the Flax Production Committee, and all others associated with the flax industry. I do not know whether the other committees which are to he set up will deal with the flax industry; hut I urge that this investigation should begin at the earliest possible moment, particularly as Australia has been asked: to double 'its production, of flax, -and, also because persons whom the Government regards as authorities on the processing of flax have furnished information which. I know to be incorrect. One of. these supposed authorities gave the cost of producing flax in Tasmania as £4 10s. an acre. That statement, is ridiculous. However, it would appear that it was- regarded as correct 'by the Government, seeing that the guaranteed price for flax was fixed at £4 10s. an acre. I hope  (hai  the Government will, agree to the appointment of a commitee to investigate this industry, which should prove of great value to Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLEAY)  adjourned. 
T move - 
That a joint committee of tlie Parliament be appointed -to inquire into, and: report upon all matters related, to the manufacture and sale of superphosphate, in Australia. 
That three members of the Senate and four members of the House of- Representatives be appointed- to serve on such committee. 
That the committee' be empowered to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during the adjournment of Parliament. 
That a message be sent t-o the House of Representatives requesting its concurrence, and asking that four members be appointed to serve on such committee. 
In view of the plight 'of farmers throughout Australia generally, I desire the appointment of a joint select committee to investigate the increased, cost of superphosphate. I am aware that in past years the manufacture of this commodity has been investigated. In 1929, the Tariff Board conducted an inquiry into the price and distribution of superphosphate, and in 1932 a further inquiry was undertaken by  Mr. John  Gunn. . However, I am concerned not so much with what took place in the past as with what is. happening to-day. Soon- after Professor Copland was appointed Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, his attention was directed to the price of superphosphate. Professor Copland has done a good job in relation to some commodities, but I do not agree with all of his decisions. For instance, he has permitted the price of tea to be increased, notwithstanding that the companies which distribute that commodity arc paying dividends as high as 15 per cent. In dealing with superphosphate I am concerned with happenings before Professor Copland was appointed to his present position. In Western Australia, the prices of commodities before the commencement -of the war are taken into' consideration when' fixing prices, and it would appear that Professor Copland also should be -empowered to take prewar prices into consideration. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that the Prices Commissioner should limit his investigations to any particular period! 
Is not the price of superphosphate determined by the cost of phosphatic rock imported into this country from Nauru? 
That the Commonwealth .Government make every endeavour to reduce the  cost  of Mme.phosphate to pre-war levels and if these efforts prove inadequate, that the price he pegged at tlie figure existing on the 31st December, 1930, as is the case in New Zealand. 
According to Western Australian  Ilansard,  No. 19, of the 4th December, 1940, page 2529, the Western Australian representative, in seconding that motion, said : - 
I have no doubt that the Commonwealth Government, through its officers, has already made some investigation of the position. Substantial reductions will have to be effected, however, if primary production is to continue as it should do in these da' s. If. as w:is stated a while ago when we were dealing with wine, the Commonwealth Government cannot, under existing machinery, instruct the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner to investigate prices ruling prior to the. 31st August. 10SB, it should make provision to do so. I am anxious to ascertain whether the ruling prices of superphosphate at the 31st August were fair or unfair. It may be that profiteering was going on then. If that is so. it would be illogical and unjust to fall ben vii v on the wartime profiteer but to allow the peace-time profiteer to continue his profiteering in wartime. Under thu Western Austin' ian legislation the State Prices Commissioner  may  investigate whether prices were fair or unfair prior to the 31st August . . . 
It may bc that substitutes may bo found for some of thu high-priced imported ingredients pf superphosphates. I hope that we shall be able to produce, in Western Australia, some of the ingredients that are now being imported at a high price and in the near future may become still more expensive. Surely the Commonwealth and State Governments, acting both separately and conjointly, can do something to meet this situation. It will be foolish for us to sit back and accept these increases' of prices as inevitable. 
Immediately following the announcement of the increase of the price of superphosphate in July of last year, the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr. Willcock,  in a communication to the Prime Minister, said :- 
I desire to urge that the Commonwealth Government, which has already recognized the necessity for providing' assistance to farmers in their time of trouble and to various forms of primary industries, particularly thu wheat industry by means of the flour tax, should extend very favorable consideration to this matter. I sincerely trust' that you will find it possible to take action to counteract to some extent the serious effect upon these industries of this heavy increase in the cost of production. 
I understand that the Prime Minister promised an early review. Subsequently he said that he was prepared to investigate the matter thoroughly on the lines requestedby  Mr. Willcock.  Following more recent protests an investigation was made by the Commonwealth Department of Commerce. This report was forwarded to the Western Australian Government, but in spite of that the Western Australian Parliament carried a motion for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into and report upon all matters relative to the manufacture and sale of superphosphate in Western Australia. I am not in a position to say whether the price of superphosphate is a just or an unjust one; but, like the members of the Western Australian House of Assembly, I say definitely that if the Prices Commissioner has taken as the basis for his computations the price ruling at the , 31st August, 1939, his decision may , not be a just one because the manufacturers may at that time have been indulging in profiteering.Let us consider how the increased price of superphosphate affects the farmers in my own State. The latest decision of the Prices. Commissioner means that an increased annualburden of between £360,000 and £400,000 willbe placed on Western Australian farmers. 
SenatorFRASER.- I shall deal with that later. On an average, the farmers of Western Australia use 300,000 tons of superphosphate annually, at a cost of £1,500,000. That figure is rapidly increasing, owing to the greater use of superphosphate for top-dressing. Reporting on the 27th September, 1932, on the superphosphate industry, the Director of 
Development,  Mr. J.  Gunn, and his colleague  Mr. Jas.  A. Stevenson, Acting Chief Investigating Officer, stated - 
It is of interest to record that in 1913-14 when the price of rock was approximately £2 7s.6d. per ton, of sulphur £418s.6d. per ton, and ofbags6s. 7d.per dozen, the list price of 17 per cent. water soluble superphosphate was £4 7s.6d. per ton. Just after the war, the price of raw materials increased considerably, and the price of 17 per cent. superphosphate went up to £6 3s. per ton. In 1931-32 with rock costing an average of £25s.10d. per ton, c.i.f., and sulphur averaging £7 10s. per ton,landedin store, Melbourne, and withbags at an average price of9s. per dozen, the list price of 22per cent. superphosphate (20.5 per cent. water soluble) is £415s. per ton for terms, and £4 10s. per ton for cash. The price of £4 10s. for 20.5 per cent. water soluble is equivalent to £3 14s.8d. per ton of 17 per cent. water soluble. In 1913-1914 there was no difference between terms and cash prices. 
The figures indicate that although there has been an increase in the cost of raw materials (excepting phosphate rock) since 1913-14, the price of superphosphate to the farmer has decreased by 14.70 per cent. 
I emphasize that the resolution of the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into this industry was adopted with full knowledge on the part of that chamber of the representations made by the State Government, and the resolution of protest adopted by the Australian Agricultural Council as well as the representations madeby the Premier of Western Australia and the investigations already made by the Commonwealth Government into the industry. All of those phases of the matter were carefully examined. There can be no doubt that the growers are not satisfied with the present position. They demand a Commonwealth inquiry. Should such an investigation prove the Prices Commissioner tobe in the right, no harm willbe done. 
SenatorFRASER. - As I have already stated, the Minister for Lands in Western Australia pointed out that the Prices Commissioner is not empowered to inquire into conditions existing prior to the 3lst August, 1939, in order to ascertain the profits then made. The present dissatisfaction of the farmers is aggravated by the fact that a further increase of price is contemplated.- Tn these circumstances it is desirable that the fullest possible information should be furnished regarding existing stocks of phosphate rock in this country. The farmers are entitled to be assured that unfair profits are not being made. They cannot shoulder a further increase of price. To-day many farmers not only in Western Australia but also in other States, are in serious financial difficulty. Many of them are on the verge of bankruptcy; they are simply holders of properties for the banks. An inquiry by a select committee of this Parliament would also disclose whether or not the present scale of shipping freights is fair. 
Perhaps the members of the select committee could find out. through a railway department witness, whether the increase of 10 per cent, from port to the super works a few miles away has represented a. profit. The Cresc o works Iia ve to pay 4s. fid. per ton to land supplies at Bayswater from Fremantle. I suggest that a trainload of superphosphate from Fremantle to Bayswater at 4s. Od. per ton would certainly be payable. 
The MINISTER roil WORKS - Who holds the shares in Cresco? 

 Mr. BOYLE. ; Cresco is a farmers' company, and therefore it is socked for 4s. (id. per ton. 

 Mr. Cross. ; The select committee can investigate that point too. 

 Mr. BOYLE ; A good case can he made out for an inquiry regarding the whole of the superphosphate business in this State. I was in touch with  Mr. Holyoake  - T think that is his name - who is the son of the founder of the Pivot Company in Victoria, The concern was established in 1927 as a farmers' company and worked on the basis that anything over cost, was rebated to the shareholders. A farmer there is entitled to a ton of super phosphate for every share he holds. Evidently they have gone into the matter very closely because I notice that when our superphospte  - it had a 23 per cent, content - cost us ?3 12s. (id. per ton, the Victorian farmers were paying ?2 17s. per ton net. That represents a difference of Jos. Gd. per ton, or nearly 30 per cent. For the five years from 1934 to 1939 the company sold superphosphate at under ?3 per ton to its shareholder -farmers in Victoria. To-day the Commonwealth Price Fixing Commissioner has forced the company to increase its price to ?4 IBs. per ton, less 5s. per ton for cash, which is the same as the rate charged in Western Australia. 
I have placed before the Senate be proved to be right or wrong, the appointment of a select committee to investigate this matter will be justified' if thereby the primary producers of Australia as a whole can. be assured that the present price is fair. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
 Honorable senators will recall that when I moved this motion  at  the end of last year, I was given leave to continue my remarks. On the eve of: my term of office as a senator I wish to be quite frank with the Senate. I shall not press this matter to a conclusion  at. this stage,, but I wish to .place certain factors on record, because I hope- that whether this motion be or. be not passed - after all that does not matter, so much - I shall perhaps,, with the friendly attention and. assistance of my fellow senators, have been privileged to sow a small seed that, in time may grow into an important plant, of which they themselves, and all the world, will be proud. All I ask in this motion is that this Senate shall make a very strong declaration to the world that all loT:.ers of freedom - democratic countries, and: particularly  tks  British family of nations - will at the conclusion 'of this war absolutely refuse to- accept a so-called peace which does, not ensure absolute security against a recurrence, of the dreadful evils caused by war that is devastating the world to-day. That is all I wish, to do., If honorable senators analyse this long motion they will, find that that is all it means. But it does purport to make .a suggestion based on our. own constitution and on the constitution of our American cousins; it does attempt to point .out that the real road to world security lies- in, the application of the Federal principle to any world body that may be set up after the war. It is unthinkable that at the conclusion of hostilities every reasonable man in the world will not bend his might towards the attainment- of a solution of this pressing problem. We thought wehad a solution in the League of. Nations. Some people say that the .League of Nations failed"; I have never said that. I 'believe that from the very weaknesses, errors, and mistakes of the League of Nations, we should derive the necessary lessons to eliminate the deficiencies that made aggression" possible, and thus bring to successful fruition the good, work that was started, by the League. At least, the League of Nations did establish for us the ideal of world collective security, and I want this Senate to proclaim to the world that we shall' cling steadfastly to that ideal. This afternoon, I asked a quest-ion which was answered by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay). 
I deliberately asked why the Australian Government was at present contributing: £34,000 annually towards the upkeep of the League of Nations, and although the answer was not so strong as I should, have liked it to have been, I was very pleased to hear the reply. . It contained- the following declaration : - 
There is a wide recognition, of the need for maintaining in being some organization for international collaboration .. . . 
 I believe everyone will agree with that sentiment, but may I call the attention of the Senate to what I think was 'fi stronger expression by a very great manwhom we all admire for the sterling work he has done in hurling defiance at the Germ&lt;an tyrants. I refer to FieldMarshal Smuts, Prime Minister of the Union of South Africa. The question was also raised in the South African Parliament as to why that Government was paying a contribution towards the upkeep of the League of Nations. The following is a report which contains the declaration of  Field-Marshal  Smuts: - "Many deep thinkers ure still convinced that the only hope of salvation for the world lies along the League road", said the Prime Minister, General Smuts, announcing a vote of £25,600" for the League of Nations. 
The vote is being criticized in Parliament by Nationalist members. "It is my opinion, I may be Wrongs that it would be stupid if the only instrument binding the world together were left in the lurch by  South  Africa ", declared General Smuts. 
Only the ideal of the League remained. Even  the  buildings no longer were available, but was not tlie ideal the soul of the whole matter? 
In the. circumstances there was a strong obligation- upon South  Africa  to help maintain this instrument, which may yet provide a way through difficult times. ' 
General Smuts undertook to maintain the subscription to the  League  this year and perhaps next. 
 I shall" not go into the. details of' my motion because I have sent literature concerning it to honora'ble senators. I" trust that they have read the booklet which was prepared, at the time when om- armies were sitting down in supposed safety behind the Maginot line. Since  then much water has run under the bridge. 
Yes. Since then,  there  ha.ve been several opportunities to bring this motion before honorable sena tors, but I trust I shall not be charged with . laxity or want of enthusiasm in that respect. I remind my colleagues that when those opportunities did present themselves, major international crises were occurring and we could not have devoted our minds completely to the consideration of other matters. I am not in the least bit perturbed about that,, because -as many honorable senators recollect, some time ago a motion was passed in this chamber with the support of the Leader of the Opposition-  (Senator Collings)  and most other honorable, senators, twenty-one of whom are still members- of this chamber. Twenty-one senators signed the constitution  of a body which we carried on in a mild way, and through which we sent material to many parts of the- world. Literaturewas sent to the Foreign Relations Committee of the American Senate and to the corresponding body of the House of Representatives in that country. It was also sent to many members of the British House of Commons, and honorable senators ' opposite will  be  pleased to learn that 'amongst the recipients there were about 7.0 members of the Labour party. Encouraging expressions have come from many parts of the world, and although no specific motion, may he carried now, I am thankful for the privilege of acting for my country in this Senate 'by putting forward this  ideal.  I am not concerned with, whether or not this matter culminates in a specific resolution, because, as I havesaid, we have sown a seed which I think, will grow more and more in the minds of men and women throughout the world as we come to. the closing stages of this unhappy and disastrous struggle. 
I should like to cite a few expressions of support for this ideal, because I hope that our efforts will not languish, and that in the future, individual senators will give it their utmost support. Several days ago, through the. courtesy of the right honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin),  I received .a letter from the secretary of. the Australian Labour party,  Mr. MacNamara,  enclosing a reprint of a letter which he had written quite off his own. bat to the Melbourne  Age,  and not, I presume, as the result- of any views I have expressed. It is a valuable effort, and the striking point about it is that the writer was thinking apparently almost on the same lines as I was, although he did not suggest a form of machinery by which the ideal could, be implemented. 

 Mr. Herbert Morrison some time ago said ; 
Tlie Nazis' new European - order is that of the slave plantation . .- . 
I conceive- an -International Air Force. It will- then' not again he possible for the thug; with bombers, ' to -terrorize the Continent, smash homes and cities, crush the innocent bodies of women and children,, and. blast to powder the fruits of man's toil and the monuments of his greatness. Whatever a peace may bring or take away that at least must go on forever. 
The - separate  Air  Forced- the tommygunof the international .gangster - must ' be abolished. 
I have here a. rather, interesting note from a 'well-known- "member .of -the American' Senate,  Senator Elbert  Thomas, who has", figured largely, in the press' because of his participation .in those debates which are of  such' interest  tothe British' Commonwealth of. Nations. He said;  inter aiia- 
I have often pointed' out that in the technique of Fede'ral control there is a solution of many of the world's"  ills,- such a solution; especially, as the great contribution you arc now making.'. -  .-" - ''.':. 
Your/views are constructive'. May .they have a .real bearing" when the proper time comes. 
All I ask'in the motion I have moved is that it should be forwarded at the appropriate time' to the proper authorities. I do not suggest that now is necessarily the appropriate time. We have to do everything to win the war, and crush the tyrants ; . the time will then be appropriate. But, ' when the time .is appropriate, let us be prepared .to take steps to stop for all time this  gangstering.  Mr. W.  W. Waimark,  a. well-known American journalist, who with a. colleague of his recently, toured' this country inquiring into Australia's war effort, wrote the following letter to me recently from Des Moines, United States of America : - 
 I was delighted to learn of your activity in  Australia.  Here and there, through just a few personal contacts and through bits of news which I saw from time to time in the press, both in Australia and New Zealand. I gathered the impression that there is at least a considerable body of support in those countries for what you and I believe in. 
In a letter to mc,  Mr. David  Adams, of the British Labour party, who is known to many of us, said : - 
Yesterday in the House of Commons. London, the Parliamentary Labour party had under discussion the question of peace aims to bc sought after the conclusion of the war. The party are unanimous in requesting the British Government to declare their peace aims without delay, which declaration may have an important and favorable influence  upon  neutrals and our allies in the strengthening of the opposition to the dictators. This would particularly apply to the nations in Europe which arc now under the heel of Hitler. 
I will pass on your booklet to others interested in this great movement. 
Through the editor of the K-H NewsLetter Service, I have received the follow^ ing  communication- from Commander Stephen King-Hall, M.P., one of the directors of K-H- Services Limited :- 
Both the Commander and I have read with great interest your booklet "The Key to World" Security "". Certainly- now is the moment for. us to begin to think about the kind of world which .we wish to see emerge from the war, and we are trying from time to time, through the" medium of tlie K-H NewsLetter, to impress upon our readers the importance of this question. 
In another letter which I received from the K-H News-Letter Service I find these words : - 
The. moment when British statesmen can show, in a clear and positive manner, how a British victory can guarantee to Europe, not only liberty, but also economic peace and security, this country will find ranged on ils side new allies all over the world, anxious to make certain that it is the British pattern of post-war society which shall shape the lives of to-morrow's children. 
Some time before he visited America, recently,  Sir Robert  Garran, who is wellknown in this country as a high constitutional authority, in discussing this motion with me, told me that he thought that,- after the war, it was almost inescapable that there must be a surrendering of limited sovereign rights. That brings us to the idea of a central body, and I am sure that many others are thinking along similar lines. The  Hon.  C. R. Attlee. addressing a Labour conference in England, said : - 
The problem to-day is not merely the defeat of German aggression, but the establishment of conditions which will make aggression impossible. Without the rule of law there will be war in the future as in the past ... If aggression is to cease, there must be some force by which the aggressor can be compelled in the last resort tq desist; if there is to be a rule of law, there must be some means of enforcing that ]aM 

 Mr. Noel Coward, who visited Australia recently, .has written to me as follows : - 
With  you I feel that wo cannot give too -much serious consideration to- a sane plan for reconstruction and world peace. Although we have not met" in: person I feel .privileged to meet you through your work. 
From a former member of .the House of Representatives I have received the following communication : - 
I have read carefully and with keen appreciation your  IIa.nna.rd  speech and booklet' " The Key to World Security ", and all congratulations must go out to you as being the first man in the world to make such a move in his National Parliament. No more fortunate time could have arisen for the consideration of such a motion, and in that regard you must press on with it and in no  way weaken your endeavour. If I remember aright it was "Billy" Hughes, at the Versailles Conference, who made the point and the only one to 'do so, that Wilson's fourteen, points would never work because there was ho police force to  make  them effective". 
A great -captain of' industry, the late Mi:. Ii. Ri Lysaght; head-, of the large Australian engineering firm, of John -Lysaght (Australia) Proprietary Limited^ , and a man who was respected by all sections of industry, employers and employees .alike, stated.:-^ ' ' . ' - 
' cordially agree -with your views. Whether, the suggestion you make can be carried into .effect .... will largely depend -upon ,the outcome of the present -war, but at  any  rate the world-wide publication of the  pamphlet,  particularly if your motion is adopted by the Australian Senate, can do nothing but good. 
I have referred to this letter because I Iia ve heard a whisper that I have submitted a mere pacifist motion, and that this is the wrong time to put it before the world; but I believe with  Mr. Lysaght  that it can do nothing hut good. Can it do anything but good if Ave should, say to Hitler " We will have none of your aggression in the future, and. we will not let up. We will not leave any stone unturned, until we have made you and your system impossible in the future world"? When 'we have devised, a scheme that will be fair to every nation, we shall be led almost irresistibly to the federal avenue of approach -to this problem. The adoption of that method of approach would, guarantee the preservation of the democratic system, in every country, because an.. election of representatives of all nations to a central body would not -be possible without a uniform electoral office and system of voting. Any method of election similar to the faked ballots held under the Hitler regime shortly before the war would be the antithesis of that which is dear to democratic countries. 
I have- said many times that an international relations committee of this Sena,te should be appointed, consisting of an. equal number of  members  from each side of the chamber, the  chairman  to be a member of .the Government of the day, regardless of the party which happened to be in power. . Such a body could examine international problems, anC when those matters came before the Parliament for- debate, 'there would be a highly informed and thoughtful approach to them as they arose. The Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane wrote to me as follows : - 
May I say at once that I am in complete agreement, not only with your ideals, but also with the outline of your scheme. ... I believe, too, that you. are entirely right in claiming that no such federation is possible without some supreme judiciary to settle claim's and without some armed forces .which shall, ensure the enforcement of the  judiciary's  conclusions. 

 His Grace,  Dr. Gilroy,  the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, made this comment- - 
I applaud your, sincere effort .to promote that which all nien of goodwill desire. 
The director of 2SM  radio  station, 
Sydney, writing to a friend of. mine who passed the letter on to me, stated - 
I have read  Senator Abbott's  pamphlet with great inte'rest. I believe it should be in the hands of every thinking man. I should advise the  Senator to  send some copies to. the Apostolic Delegate for. his own perusal and for forwarding to the Holy Father. I am sure both will be grateful for such a clear statement. 
I have received many similar letters, including one from the Right Reverend the Archbishop of Hobart, who, writing from St. Mary's Cathedral, remarked - 
May I offer you my sincere congratulations on your praiseworthy  attempt  to focus- world attention on your suggestion? 

 Sir Drummond Shiels, acting on behalf of  Sir Howard  D'Egville, as secretary of the Empire Parliamentary Association, wrote in these terms - 
Your letter onthe 24thMay with enclosure has been received during  Sir Howard  D'Egville's absence on a visit to Canada. . . . I am sure he will read your thought-provoking pamphlet with as much interest as I have done. 
When this motion first came before the Senate the  Christian Science Monitor  of the 13th April, 1940, which is reputed to have one of the best international news services in the world, had the following double-column heading to a description of my proposal :  - " Abbott Arms Proposal Held Key to World Peace ". Incidentally I may mention that from that heading I got the idea of the title for my booklet " The Key to World Security ". 
On the eve of my servicein the Senate I have not asked honorable senators to consider some light, foolish or frivolous motion. What the details of the scheme may be is immaterial, so long as the framework provides that we shall never consent to any peace without undoubted security for the future. As the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  said recently, we prefer to die on our feet than to live on our knees. We are prepared to die on our feet in order to insist that, when victory has been won, it shall be such a victory that, together with the great republic across the water, and other freedomloving nations of the world, we may provide machinery - and it could be done by remedying the weaknesses of the League of Nations - so as to guarantee to the world for all time that aggression of this kind shall never occur again. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.18 to 8 p.m. 

.A similar motion hasbeen moved on so many occasions that it has almost become stereotyped procedure. I desire to know the reason for such a motion being moved in connexion with this measure. Does the Government intend to impose the " guillotine " whenever it considers such action necessary, or is the measure really urgent? Since I have been a member of this chamber I have never heard reasons given in support of such a motion. I am prepared to consider any reasons given for regarding this measure as urgent, but if the motion is only a matter of form and no good reason is advanced for such haste, I shall not support it. I submit that every bill placed before us should be considered on its merits and ample time afforded for debate. No legislation should be hurried through the chamber unless it is indeed an urgent measure. I do not know what attitude my colleagues on this side of the chamber will adopt in regard to the motion now before the Senate, but unless the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  is able to give good reasons for its introduction I shall challenge it and every similar motion whenever it is submitted without any explanation of its urgency; I desire the honorable gentleman to know that I am not here merely to act as a rubber stamp in order tomeet the convenience of the Government; but if the Government says that legislation shouldbe passed quickly in order to assist the country's war effort, I am prepared to give favorable consideration to any request for its speedy passage. 
 in reply -  The motion which I have submitted to the Senate appears on the notice-paper every day. In his recent broadcast speech the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  indicated that it was desirable to split up the work of some departments in order to facilitate the country's war effort. He referred particularly to the departments under control of my colleague, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride).  As soonas the Prime Minister had delivered his secondreading speech on thisbill, I arranged for a. copy of it to be distributed among members of the Opposition in this chamber, so that they would know the purpose of the legislation, and be able to deal with the bill as expeditiously as it was dealt with in the House of Representatives. I agree withSenator Cameron that bills shouldnotbe rushed throughwithout good reason,but I believe that, the objects sought to be achieved by this bill are important and urgently necessary. The Opposition in the House of Representatives readily acquiesed in the desire of theGovernment to give this measure  a  speedy passage, and I appeal to  Senator Cameron  to assist in placing it on the statu te-book. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Standing Orders suspended. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  read a first time. 
I move - 
Thatthe bill be now  read a second  time. 
This bill is designed to amend the Ministers of State Act, under which the permissible number of Ministers of State provided for in the Constitution has from time to time been increased. The number of Ministers allowed by the  act  is eleven. That number was increased to twelve by a regulation made under the National Security Act in October last, but the statutory maximum number of Ministers is eleven. That will explain to honorable senators why the increase authorized by this measure is to be from eleven to nineteen instead of from twelve to nineteen Ministers. The actual number of Ministers now is not twelve, as provided for by the regulation, but sixteen, because there are four Assistant Ministers. The post of Assistant Minister in, the Commonwealth administration was devised about 30 years ago. 
It is desirable that every person who sits incabinet should sit there as a Minister of State with specific responsibility for some department of State, and with accountability to Parliament for theway in which he administers that department. Consequently, it is desirable to abolish the post of Assistant Minister and to provide that each man who is  a  Minister shall be a Minister of State with responsibilities for a department of State. As I have said, we now have sixteen Ministers, four of whom are described as Assistant Ministers. It is proposed to establish special ministerial responsibility for three war activities which seem to he of sufficient importance to warrant it. I take them in no particular order, hut they are, first aircraft production, secondly civil defence, including in particular air raid precautions, and thirdly the problem of the re-organization of civil resources. The lastmentioned is an extremely difficult problem which will involve a great deal ofcontact with various organizations of civil production throughout Australia. Each of those matters is so important as to warrant a special ministerial department. 
It is not proposed to provide that, instead of sixteen Ministers of State there should be nineteen, each to be remunerated as a full Minister, because the extra cost would be excessive. The proposal is that there shall be such addition to the ministerial salary pool as will provide for twelve Ministers of State, whowould be remunerated as full Ministers of State are now remunerated, and; instead of four Assistant Ministers, seven other Ministers of State with their own responsibilities, each to be remunerated on the basis on which Assistant Ministers are now remunerated. The total addition to the Cabinet fund would not be very great. 
Certain rearrangements of the Cabinet business will be made, and it is hoped that this will make the handling of that business more effective in the future. The Ministers of State Act now provides' for the appropriation of £18,600 per annum for the payment of Ministers ofState. It is proposed to increase that appropriation to £21,250. 
It is not designed by this measure to increase the salary of any existing Minister. The whole purpose is to secure three additional Ministers, who would, under the existing scheme, be called Assistant Ministers,but who, under the new scheme, will be given special responsibilities for those particular departments of State. 
SenatorCOLLINGS  (QueenslandLeader of the Opposition) [8.11].  -  This bill is an exceedingly simple one and all honorable senators On this side of the chamber have known of its contents for some time. It is intimately associated with Australia's war effort and, therefore, 
I believe that it should be given a speedy passage through the Senate.I should not be prepared to adopt that attitude in all circumstances, but this measure follows the lines indicated in the Prime Minister's  (Mr. Menzies)  recent broadcast speech, in which he said that it was essential that ministerial responsibility, especially in respect of certain important war departments, should be more evenly distributed. We on this side agree with that statement. At times we have complained -I believe, with justification - that some things which ought to have been done were not being done, and that other  things  were not being done as expeditiously as the situation demanded. There was talk of red tape, bottle-necks, and so on. As this bill is designed to remove some of those obstacles, and to enable the nation's war effort to be accelerated, its passage through the Parliament should not be delayed. I approve of the bill as a whole, but I am particularly pleased with one aspect' of it. It has always seemed to me to be unfair that the pool of ministerial salaries should be! limited toa certain amount, andthat although Ministers are supposed to receive a certain salary, they maynot,infact,receivethatamount. I donotkonwwhatarragementsare madeforthedistributionofthemoney in that pool,andIdonotwanttoknow, butIsubmitthatifaMinisterisquali- fiedtodohisjob,andisdoingitsatis- factorily,heisentitledtothefullsalary forthatjob.Ishouldresentanarbitrary cutofmyremuneration,andIresentany interferencewithacontractenteredinto forthepaymentofanyspecifiedsumto aMinisterofState.Ifitisnecessaryto appointAssistantMinisters-andit wouldappearthattheirappointmentis necessary-theirsalariesshouldbeaddi- tionaltotheamountrequiredtopaythe salariesofMinistersofStateinaccor- dancewiththecontractsenteredinto withthem.Theadditionalamountof  £2,650tobeprovidedunderthisbillis  notworthtalkingabout,ifweare now togetabetterservice.Wecan agree to that without any qualms of conscience. The LeaderoftheSenatein hissecondreadingspeechtolduswhat the Prime Minister saidintheHouseof Representatives.I express my thanks to the honorable senator for having supplied members -of the Opposition with a copy of the Prime Minister's second-reading speech as soon as it was available. It is all to the good that we are to have these three war effort departments so shared out that their problems will get more complete and more rapid attention. When the new Ministers are appointed, we should be able to get from the talking stage to theaction stage with as little delay as possible.Nobody would say that it is not a good thing that aircraft production should be investigated and speeded up. If this bill will have that effect I am sure that the Opposition will be satisfied the right thing is being done. Our civil defences, particularly air raid precautions, are badly in need of attention. A very big -job is being done in Queensland in that connexion under the guidance of the State Government. A good deal of the speeding up of air raid precaution work in New South Wales is accounted for by the recent change of Government in that State. The fact remains, however, that there is a great need for the tightening upforour civil defences with special emphasis on preparation for trial blackouts, and the provision of air raid shelters. If this bill effects an improvement in that direction, we shall be more than justified in passing it. The same remarks applytothedevelopmentofourcivil resources and civil production. I say now, however-thoughnotinanyway asathreat-thatifafterthebillis passedthereisnoappreciablechangein thequalityoftheworkputintothese departmentsbytheGovernment,anda decidedimprovementinthespeedwith whichitisaccomplished,afullmeasure ofcriticismwillcomefrom the Opposition benches.Itrustthatthebillwill be passed without undue delay and that the Government, will complete its part of the job and let us see what it can do. 
I agreeintotothat the Government should be assisted in every way possible to organize a total war effort. A total war-time effort means at the very least that all who are capable should bear an equal share of the burden, and that nonessentialindustries should not be allowed to operate to the detriment of the war effort. At ajoint meeting of senators and members of the. House of Representatives, I asked what was intended to be done in that direction, and I was sup- . plied with an answer which did not convey any idea of the intentions of the Government-. We are asked to say now, in effect, that we accept in good faith the promise of the Government that it will do all that we think it should do. Although we have had  22  months of war, many of the things that should have been done have remained undone. For example, it has been said that there is a scarcity of labour necessary for building operations required so urgently for defence purposes. At the same time, however,, we find, that in almost ever.y capital city and country town of any importance in Australia palatial buildings of all kinds are being erected, absorbing the labour power and materials that should he used for defence purposes. That has gone on. ever since the war started, and it is going on today. .We are asked in this bill to 'agree to the appointment of additional Ministers. If it could be shown that' the work that should be done is being done, and if we were given the assurance that further efforts would be, made in the. directions that are so necessary, we could acquiesce- in the passage  of this bill ; hut that is not the position. In every capital city and country town in 'Australia we- find services being duplicated and multiplied in every direction. If appropriate action were taken an enormous amount of . labour-power and, -millions of pounds- worth of materials could heutilized to far better advantage. In company with fellow senators and members of another place', I visited the Small Arms Factory at Footscray and found, to my amazement, that many machines in the key machine shop were idle. I asked the manager,  Mr. Statton,  what was the reason for that, and he said that private enterprise was taking-, his key men. In other words, the Munition Department is being sabotaged by private enterprise, and the Government is doing, nothing to help it. That is the only construction that I could place upon his words. I asked him if I wore at liberty to mention his name in this matter, and he consented. That ia why I mention it now. I sought' to ascertain the reason for this. The only answer that suggests itself to my mind is that private enterprise has so much capital invested in non-essential .and  luxury  industries that it is not prepared to make the sacrifice that is so necessary unless it can he actually .forced to do go. That is the position that has existed in England. If honorable senators read the reports that come from other sources, they will .find that for all practical purposes the British Government and private enterprise supporting the Government have been virtually bombed into acquiescence' or to improving on their war effort. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B; Hayes):  - The honorable senator is departing from the- principle of" the bill. 
The object of the bill is- said to expedite, our war-time effort, and for. that purpose it. provides for the appointment of additional Ministers. I am endeavouring to show that, with all the. power at- their disposal, Ministers have, not, up to date, done what they should have done. It has been said that, we have made a good joh of our war-time effort. I agree that it is. good up to a point; but it is not' as good- as it should be. Thousands and thousands of men and millions of pounds worth of: material could be used to far better advantage than they are being used to-day. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has' said that Ministers should be paid their full salaries. I agree ; but what is that salary ? Is it in excess of their requirements? If it is, I suggest that it should not be. paid. If it is just sufficient for their requirements, then' it should be. paid, However, at this time, when people are: going' from door to door asking men. and women to make contributions to all sorts of funds, such as comforts funds, it is incumbent on members of Parliament to be prepared to make some sacrifice.. I do not think it is quite a legitimate proposal in time of war that, if additional Ministers are appointed, they should be paid in excess of their actual needs. I do not know what Ministers actually receive, but I assume their remuneration is much in excess of what they actually need. In these circumstances, I. do not believe that the people should be called upon to provide the additional amount required to meet the Government's proposal in this bill. 
A t least in a time of war Ministers should bear in mind that our men at the front are receiving only 5s- a day, and that' the purchasing- power of that sum is con- siderably less to-day than it was during the last war, and during the South African War of 1901-1002. They should also bear in mind "that the purchasing power of those who are engaged in the manufacture- of munitions' is considerably less than, it was before the outbreak of  the war. When 'the people are being  asked to make sacrifices Ministers should be prepared to set a, good example. ' We cannot- justify paying' the same ' salarie's to Ministers in a time of war as in prewar days. . 'We ' should be prepared to carry on with '-the very least'- we require for our needs. 
The honorable senator will remember that when we were discussing the last budget proposals I " urged that no man, or woman, receiving less than £500 a year should be taxed until all persons in the community in receipt of more than that sum were taxed to the degree by which their income exceeded that figure. If that were done, the Government would have so much move purchasing power at its disposal, and could use that money to far better advantage than it is- being used at present. I do not advocate that people should at all times be obliged to live according to their bare needs; but in a time of war, not only members of Parliament but also all persons receiving considerably in excess of £1,000 a year should be prepared to accept the very least on which they can live. Until that is done we cannot claim that we have' equity -of sacrifice, or that  we are organizing a total war'.effort. Consequently, a bill of  this kind which does  not make provision for that sort- of thing should be opposed. Any member of Parliament -'iri receipt of £1,000 a year should be prepared to serve in. any capacity, either as a Minister, or as a member of a committee, without any additional remuneration- whatever, provided it can- be shown that he is not being put to any additional expense while working in those capacities. I am not suggesting for' one' moment that any member of Parliament, or any person outside, should unnecessarily make himself or herself a martyr; but I urge that members of Parliament should, so far as it is humanly practicable, set an example to the nation in this respect. If we propose to continue to pay salaries to Ministers at the same rate as before the war, plus all of the allowances they have hitherto received, and- at- the same time, we tell the people that they are to be reduced to the lowest possible, minimum, we are  not ' setting a good example. We "know that prices' are rising, and that every 'increase of prices reduces the purchasing power of those upon whom the prosperity of the nation principally depends, namely, the workers in the factories, and our soldiers in battle. If we are sincere in preaching equality of sacrifice, and in urging the greatest possible war effort, we should be the first to set an example to the people whom we desire to follow us. 
I approve the measure. On this occasion, however, I cannot refrain from remarking that throughout the history of the Country party, even at a time when that party had six or seven members in this chamber and the Government was entirely dependent upon their assistance to secure the passage of legislation through the Senate, on not one occasion when a new ministry was being formed has a member of the Country party in the Senate been offered a portfolio. As I am on the eve of relinquishing my seat in this chamber, honorable senators will admit that 1 have no axe to grind in this matter. I direct these few remarks to the Government as a healthy reminder which, if it "cannot be acted upon at this juncture, will,. I hope, be borne in mind in the future. This is a matter to which, in all fairness to members of the Country party, the attention of the Government should be drawn. 
Question resolved in. the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its .remaining stages without amendment or debate. - 
I take this opportunity to correct myself in respect of a question which I asked,  will tout notice,  this afternoon. The question was - 
Has  Mr. A.  W. Coles, M.H.B., recently admitted that he was "guilty of a small deceit" in order to obtain £7i&gt;0 worth of dollars to travel from New Zealand to England? 
Does .the Government approve of the example set to Australia by a member of Parliament in obtaining dollar exchange bv deceit? 
Would not the 3,000-odd dollars' involved have been better spent on essential United States of America imports? 
Did the'. Commonwealth Government pay any part of the expenses incurred by  Mr. Coles  during his investigations in England on behalf of the Government? 
I find that the figure of £750 on which I based my question is wrong. In the first proof of  Ilansard  containing the statement made by the honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Coles)  in the House of Representatives, the figure of £750 appeared. After I asked this question to-day my attention was called to the corrected copy of  Ilansard  in which I find that the figure is £75, and not £750. In view of this fact I can only say that my question was wrongly founded. I have no more interest in the matter except to make this explanation. 
The second matter with which I wish to deal concerns the subject of censorship. Occasionally, honorable senators on this side are very disturbed at the operation of the military censorship. To-day, however, I am a little disturbed concerning the censorship of certain questions which I asked in this chamber. Perhaps, a satisfactory explanation will be forthcoming; I hope so. I am entirely dissatisfied with what was done to two questions which I placed on the notice-paper on the. 28th May last, and which were answered only to-day. Following are the questions that I asked the Minister for Trade and Customs: -  
Is it a. fact that Australia will have to import large quantities of Southern  Rhodesian  tobacco as a supplement to the local crop in order to .meet home demand this year? 
Is the action of the Lyons and Menzies Governments in destroying tariff protection afforded to tobacco by the Scullin Government responsible for the inability of Australia to meet her own requirements of that commodity to-day? 
I submit that there was nothing improper, or in contravention of any standing order ' or regulation, in the language used in those two questions, but they appeared on the notice-paper in the following form : - 
Is it n fact that Australia will have to import large quantities of Southern Rho.desian tobacco to supplement the Io':aI crop in order to meet home demand this year? 
Is the action of a later Parliament in reducing the tariff protection afforded to tobacco during the term of the Scullin Government responsible for the inability of Australia to meet her own requirements in that commodity to-day? 
I do not know what is meant by " a later Parliament". I wanted to make it clear that the shortage is due to the action of anti-Labour governments, and for that reason I specified the governments. The tobacco industry was practically ruined until the position w-as remedied. 
The fact remains that they were altered. If I put in a question which is improperly worded, . it should be sent back to me for concurrence in any alterations that are made before it is placed on the notice-paper. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I have not seen the questions to which the honorable senator refers, but I shall look into the matter and give him an explanation later. 
In those circumstances that is all I need say oh the  subject. I was astounded to see that alterations had been made. 
I direct the attention of the Government to the action taken recently by the Public Trustee in Darwin. A man named Webb, who resided at Perth, a carpenter by trade, went ito  Darwin,  where he was killed on Saturday, 21st September last. Although  eight months- have elapsed since his death, his estate has not yet been, finalized by the authorities. On the 4th February of this year, his widow received a letter stating that Ids tools had. been sold for £9 and *hat his clothes were in the hands of *he Public Trustee. Honorable senators will agree that no qualified carpenter would travel anywhere without a good set of tools. Certainly a carpenter would not contemplate buying tools in Darwin and paying unusally high prices- for them even if they were available there. The late  Mr. Webb's  widow and his father lave informed me that he had a full kit of tools, including two big planes valued at 37s. 6d. each, several smaller planes, four saws,- and a tool case valued at 25s. The tools were sold by the Public Trustee  at Darwin without the permission of the man's widow, who was his next of kin. That is a very wrong practice. The Public Trustee had no right to sell the tools without first obtaining authority. I contend that the powers of the Public Trustee  in' this respect should be cur- * Sailed. The secretary of the union to which the deceased belonged in Western Australia wrote to his widow saying that the tools were supposed to . be sent from Darwin to Perth. I understand that a carpenter offered  Mrs. "Webb  £25 for the kit. A statement received from the office of the Public Trustee in Darwin relating to the estate of the late  Mr. Webb  said that on the 12th October the following goods had %een sold by auction at the prices stated: - 

<graphic href="167332194106254_25_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="167332194106254_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

The undermentioned amounts were collected :- 

<graphic href="167332194106254_25_2.jpg"></graphic>

Proceeds from the sale of tools,   &amp;c,  .. -.. .. 7 11 10 

<graphic href="167332194106254_25_2.jpg"></graphic>

The statement added that the estate was now ready for distribution and would be completed next month. I told the ' lady not to accept the cheque because the procedure adopted was most unfair. Anybody knows that a carpenter's kit of tools is worth £25 or £30, yet this kit was sold for only £9. The excuse given was that all the tools were not there. Who is to know that the tools were not there? The man was killed and his tools should have been sent back to  hi3  relatives without any delay. Public trustees should not have power to sell the belongings of deceased persons without the authority of their next of. kin. 
I desire to bring to the notice of the Government two matters, one of which relates to petrol rationing. There is a large number of settlers in Western Australia, and no doubt in other States, who are on small holdings situated from 5 to 25 miles from a railway. Some of them have no horses, and they depend for their transport on small utility trucks or old cars. I appeal to the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McBride)  to see that, in implementing petrol rationing, every consideration is given to such people. A friend of mine who has a small property carrying 200 or 300 sheep has been left to manage the holding by himself, because his sons have gone . to the wai*.  His  only means of transport is an old car which he .uses in travelling over his property and to obtain his supplies from the railway siding several miles distant. There are many such cases, and while I would certainly  not argue in this chamber in favour of special consideration being given to people in the cities who can easily travel by tram, rail or bus, I contend that the man on the land who depends for his living on managing his holding efficiently should be given sympathetic treatment. Even if the city people have no petrol at all for pleasure the small farmer with an old car or utility truck should receive sufficient to enable him to run his property efficiently. Many of these people cannot afford to install producergas units while, in some cases, the vehicles are of too low a horse-power to permit the use of such units. When I was in Western Australia recently several such cases were "brought to my notice by members of the Western Australian Parliament. 1 hope that whatever policy the Government may pursue in regard to restricting the use of petrol, greater consideration will be given to farmers owning small .properties. 
We do. arid Western Australian members have urged this repeatedly. I am sure that  Senator Clothier  will support me in this matter as he has always clone on any question concerning the primary producers of Western Australia. 
I should like to deal also with the price of superphosphate. In doing so I shall not, refer to the motion that my colleague from Western Australia so ably and properly introduced into this chamber to-day, because I should be out of order in so doing. As honorable senators are aware, since the outbreak of war there has been an increase of 2Gs. a ton in the price of superphosphate. Co-operative companies iu Western Australia have issued circulars advising wheat-growers and others to .buy superphosphate at once and lay in a reserve supply for next year, because the price will increase considerably, possibly by £2 a ton. - That is all very well for those comparatively few settlers who have the necessary financial resources to place their orders, now, .but the great majority of our settlers are living from hand to mouth. They are oppressed by everincreasing costs of production and they had great difficulty in paying for the small quantity of superphosphate that they were able to buy this year at the increased price. They are not able to order next year's supply now, and I should like to know what the Government intends to do about the matter. Does it intend to. -carry the increased price of superphosphate, or does it intend to ask these people, who cannot alford to pay for next year's supply- now, to submit tamely to paying an extra £2 a ton? That may be all right for the people on some of the richer lands in the eastern States, but m udi of the settlement in Western Australia is on comparatively poor land, which without superphosphate is unproductive. It is the duty of the Commonweal.rh Government to do justice to these people. As I mentioned in a question this afternoon, a lead has been given in New Zealand,  where  the Labour Government has carried the whole of the increased price of superphosphate since the outbreak of war. In' addition, I understand, that superphosphate and other artificial manures are carried free on the government-owned railways, reliance being placed on increased production to make the railways pay. I am not asking the Commonwealth Government to do that, but surely an administration of which the Country party is an integral part - a party which exists for the pur- , pose of protecting the interests of primary producers - should not be less solicitous of the interests of men and women on the land throughout Australia than is the Government of New Zealand. I trust a. quick and favorable decision will be given in this serious matter. As the Government of New Zealand has carried the increased .cost of superphosphate since the outbreak of war, surely the Commonwealth Government should not do less for the primary producers of Australia. It is the clear duty of the Federal Country party to insist on this being done. 
.- All honorable senators will agree that one of the best means of propaganda tq-day is the proper use of tlie cinema or talking picture. I saw an excellent picture that was recently released by the Department of Information called " The Defence of 
Tobruk". The photography was  excellent,  and the commentary all that could 8&gt;e desired. If this picture is distributed through the ordinary channels, a long time will elapse before it will be seen throughout Australia, and I suggest that a large number of copies of the film should be made to enable the various picture theatres to exhibit it within the next fortnight. The best time to appeal to the ' public for support is when public interest is at its height, and I suggest that the defence of Tobruk is a matter now occupying a prominent place  in  the thoughts of the great majority of 4he people. The picture shows the defences of Tobruk as built by the Italians -and also its defence by the Australians, lit gives a good idea of the country in which our men .are fighting, and of what they have to defend. It also furnishes an excellent representation of the conditions  Hinder  which they live. Photographs of army 'bakeries show how the troops are fed. There is an excellent photograph of Tobruk Harbour. A picture of the arrival of mails indicates how great is the appreciation of the men of the letters received from home, and this is all good propaganda. In my opinion, the best feature of the film is that which shows  an  air raid on shipping on the harbour. The raid was successful, the bombs falling around a ship and sinking it. The bring-  ing down of an enemy aircraft is also depicted. The Minister for Information  ((Senator Foll)  might give consideration to. the production of a large number of these films and their distribution throughout Australia, so that they could  he  exhibited within the  next  fortnight. . 
I protest against the method by which the price of tea is fixed. According to any reading of recent press reports, the price of this commodity has been increased, by Sd.. per lb. since the declaration of  Avar.  The reason given is that increased charges are made for tea over.seas and increased freight charges are imposed. I accept that explanation, but I protest against the whole of the in- creased charges being passed on to the consumers, because rents, rates of interest and profits have not been reduced. It may he said that the Prices Commissioner has mot power to reduce rents, rates of interest and profits, hut this is a matter to which the Government should give consideration. The larger the number of men who leave Australia for service overseas, the smaller is the quantity of tea consumed, and where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Prices Commissioner that a trader cannot carry on at the pre-war rate of profit, the price of tea is increased. If there is to he equality of sacrifice, and if landlords and wholesalers and retailei'3 are to bear their fair share of the war-time burden, the exorbitant rents charged for shops used- for the purpose of retailing tea and other commodities should be reduced, the interest rates" charged by banks should be reduced, and, in fact, all charges recovered through the price of tea should be reduced. The. Prices Commissioner, however, is maintaining the  status quo  for the landlord, the financier, and the wholesaler and- retailer of tea, and the whole of the hurden is being passed oh to the consumer. If the Government considers that the workers should give up the right to strike it must do something in respect of the right to profiteer. We cannot allow progressive profiteering, and at the same time maintain industrial peace. To the extent that these charges are passed on, and the purchasing power of the workers is reduced both directly and indirectly, the Government is primarily responsible for any industrial strikes and disputes that may occur. In a time of war, increases of prices cannot be justified. 
I shall deal with wages in a moment or two.' I am assuming that it is true that the increases of the price of tea are passed on, but the Government is placing the whole of. the burden on the consumers, and particularly the consumers who cannot pass on increased costs. I point out to  Senator Spicer  that any increase of wages  i3  nullified almost simultaneously by increases of commodity prices. We are told that increased prices must be charged when wages are increased, but, even if the basic wage' were increased to £10 a week to-morrow, the increase would at once be met, under existing conditions, by increased prices, and the wage-worker  would not be able to purchase any more loaves of bread, pounds of meat or fruit, or suits of clothes or housing than before. In terms of commodities and in terms of gold the basic wage is no higher to-day than it was when it was originally fixed at £2 2s. a week. That sum would purchase at that time the same quantity of food and clothing as could be bought for £49s., the basic wage of to-day. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that they should not have wireless sets? 
The cost of production in terms of labour-time, and in terms of gold is a diminishing factor, and it diminishes at a far greater rate thanthat at which the workers receive increased advantages in the shape of wireless sets which many have to purchase on the time payment system. 
The position with regard to tea is similar to that regarding potatoes and other commodities where the growers are able to obtain prices sufficient to compensate them for the labour involved in their production. I suggest that the Prices Commissioner should take that matter into consideration. I do not suggest for a moment that he has the power to do wha should be done, but the Government should do what the New Zealand Government, is doing. It pays to the growers the maximum price that would enable them to live decently and pay their way, while at the same time they sold their products at the minimum price. Of course, there would be a balance to be made up. 
From the Consolidated Revenue. A man receiving £1,000 a year would contribute more to the Consolidated Revenue than a man on the basic wage. He should, in dutybound, assist the wage-earner and the potato-grower to carry on. I had the temerity to say that the whole process of price fixing was a fraud and a farce and I repeat that, because it will remain so until the Government deals more equitably with the matter. The industrial peace that we wish to maintain and the relationship which is necessary for the organization of a total war effort can be established only by the Government giving sympathetic consideration to this problem. If the Government says that extra charges should be passed on to the workers, thus reducing their purchasing power, we shall not do what should be done in the direction of organizing the war-time effort. 
I repeat that, when the price of tea or any other commodity is fixed, rather than that the price should be increased to the detriment of the consumer, and particularly the wageworker whose wage is fixed and cannot be increased, the Government should direct its attention to the manner in which charges are inflated by exorbitant capital charges such as rents, rates of interest, and profits. All these charges should be reduced. 
No; rents were not fixed . at the London Stores in, Melbourne. 
That may be; but should we succeed in convincing a judge of the Arbitration Court that the Statistician's figures reveal an increase of living costs, with the result that wages are increased, that increase is immediately offset by additional charges for rent and other things. 
The Government has notmade known to the people their rights under regulation 62, with the result that very few of them know what the true position is. When I directed the attention of certain tenants in the London Stores building, Melbourne, to the position it made a great deal of difference. Rents are being increased. It may be that a man pays £1 a week for a house, but should he sub-let certain rooms, thereby allowing two families to occupy the house, he may receive 30s. a week for it. The Government has never attempted to reduce pre-war  scents  in order to offset the reduced purchasing power of the people. According to the press, certain tea merchants have 2&gt;een able to declare a dividend of 15 per -cent. 
One of them was the Melbourne  Herald.  By means of increases of commodity prices the purchasing power '-of wages is insidiously and ingeniously reduced. Such actions do snore to create industrial unrest than anything which an agitator may do. 1 direct attention to this matter in order  that  the Government will not be able #o plead ignorance of it.  Senator. Spicer  may think that this is a laughing matter, Suit I trust that other honorable senators on the Government benches will take a more serious view. Before sanctioning any increase of the price of tea,- and especially of commodities which are produced in Australia, .the Government should confer, with the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner in order to reduce, if possible, rents, rates of interest, profits and overhead charges generally. I do not suggest that employers should be asked to bear an undue burden, or to sacrifice their capital; but I do ask that. they shall hear "their fair share of the burden, and not leave it all on the shoulders of employees an factories rand the men who are fighting (the battles of the nation. 

 Senator FRASER ("Western Australia) (9.20 ] . - I wish to clear up some misunderstanding which has arisen out of a statement which I made in . this chamber on the 2nd April when I directed attention to certain matters affecting universal trainees under the Defence Act. Men called up under the compulsory provisions of the Defence Act to undergo a preliminary medical examination frequently lose a day's pay, or a portion of a day's pay, without receiving any compensation. In some instances these men have to travel into country centres for examination and lose time from their work. Workers in the timber industry and others in outback places should not be penalized in that way. I ask the Minister to see that these men are compensated for the losses incurred by them in complying with the Act. 
Some time ago, I drew attention to the treatment of young men who applied to join the Royal Australian Navy, but were rejected because at some earlier period in their lives they had committed some minor misdemeanour. These young men were not even medically examined. The reason given to the applicants for. their rejection is that in- certain respects they do not comply with necessary qualifications. I got in touch with the Naval Depot at Fremantle, and asked the reason for the rejection of certain young men, but all that I could get from them was that the applicants had not been up to the required standard. Obviously, the standard referred to was neither physical nor mental, because the young men in question had not been subjected -to either a physical or an educational test. The ' applicants were told that, although unsuitable for the Navy, they could apply to join some other branch of the service. Such treatment of lads is wrong, and the Government should not permit it. 
The naval authorities will not state the reasons for rejection. In these instances which came to any notice last month, the naval authorities merely said that the applications had not been approved. 
Yes. Recently, a magistrate in one of our Children's Courts refused to impose a fine on a lad who had been found guilty of stealing apples because the recording of a conviction might prevent the lad from joining the Navy. 
I shall supply the Minister with details of these cases if he so desires, and I hope that this policy will be altered. 
.- I have already had an investigation made of the action taken by the Public Trustee at Darwin, to which  Senator Clothier  referred, but I shall look into it again to see if anything can be done. ' 
I assure  Senator Johnston-  that the Government recognizes that country motorists suffer many disabilities under petrol rationing which do not apply to dwellers in the cities. The Government intends to set up local committees in country districts to investigate these disabilities'. Their position is entirely different from that of city-dwellers who live close to tram and bus routes. I assure the honorable senator that country people will be given every opportunity to put their claims for extra petrol supplies before the proper authority. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Lamp  refer in terms of praise to the film released by the Department of Information depicting the defence of Tobruk. I agree with the honorable senator that such films constitute a very valuable part of our information service by keeping the people in touch with the doings, of our gallant troops. If it be possible to arrange for a wide and rapid exhibition of this film, and others depicting the exploits of our men abroad, the department will be only too glad to do so. 

 Senator Cameron referred to the recent increase of the price of ' tea by Id. per lb. I can assure the honorable senator that the Prices Commissioner fully investigated the matter before permitting the increase to be made. 
No; hut he has power to ascertain whether they are legitimate. 
On any basis. The honorable senator must know that the Government has vested the Prices Commissioner with absolute powers to investigate, all charges. If he finds that the distributors of tea, or of any other commodity, are unduly loading their overhead charges, he may take that into consideration when fixing the retail price at which the commodity must be sold. The Prices Commissioner is in no way subjected to Government interference. 
The Prices Commissioner investigates all charges before approving an increase of price. Therefore, additional overhead charges are taken into consideration. 
It is only fair to point out to the honorable senator that, as the result of the establishment of our price-fixing machinery, it has been possible in Australia to maintain the prices of commodities generally at a lower level than those charged in any other belligerent country.- 
Immediately after the outbreak of the war the Government took steps to protect the public against rising prices by establishing a price-fixing . authority. As the result of the activities of the Prices Commissioner it has been possible in Australia to control .the price of commodities to a greater degree than in other countries, and, as a result the cost of living is lower in Australia than in any other country engaged in the war. I shall bring the honorable, senator's remarks to the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Harrison).  If it can be shown that the distributors have &lt; raised the price of tea unduly, I a-m satisfied that the Government will take whatever remedial measures are necessary to ensure that the interests of. the consumers are protected. 

 Senator Fraser has complained that the Naval authorities have refused to accept lads as naval recruits who, at some earlier period of their lives, had been guilty of some minor misdemeanour. If what the honorable senator said is true it signifies an intolerable state of affairs. I shall bring the honorable senator's remarks to the. notice of my colleague, the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes). 
In consequence of the decisions of the New Delhi Conference, Australia undertook to supply certain commodities for the use of its own troops, both in Australia and overseas, and ' also for British troops. The Government has been asked recently to provide 400,000 lb. of yarn a month to enable mills in India to continue the production of defence requirements. The Government has made a survey of the capacity of Australia to produce this yarn, in. order to ascertain whether yarn of the quality required could be made available, but- it is not intended to restrict the supply of that yam to the knitting mills in Australia. We believe that our first duty is to the Australian and. British forces, wherever theym ay be, and we have asked the mills to concentrate on the provision of yarn for overseas, but we believe that, when they are in full production, they will be able, not only to meet overseas commitments, but also to make supplies of yarn available for. use in Australia. 
Will, the Leader of the Senate state whether the Commonwealth Government is considering entering into diplomaticrelationswith Russia? 
It is not the practice to state matters of government policy in answer to questions;. 
Will the PostmasterGeneral request' the technical experts of his department to. take into. consideration the rebroadcasting in English of news from radio stations in Russia, so that the people of Australia may be informed as to the position in that theatre of war? 
Can the 
Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs explain why there is new a shortage of cigarettes throughout Australia, and will the Government take further steps to encourage the Australian tobacco industry ? 
Honorable senators will realize that, owing to dollar exchange difficulties, imports of tobacco from the United States of America into Australia have been severely restricted, and that Australia produces only about one-fifth of the quantity of tobacco required in this country. Efforts are now being made to import tobacco from Southern Rhodesia and other countries, and I do not anticipate that the present shortage will long continue. 
Yesterday I addressed a question to the Minister for Supply and Development regarding the shale oil works at Glen Davis, and I shall now repeat a portion of the question. Can he assure the Senate that National Oil Proprietary Limited has actually produced petrol at Glen Davis, as claimed by the Minister for External Affairs at the opening ceremony of that company's works ? 
I do not know what the claim made by the Minister for External Affairs was, but I can inform the honorable senator that National Oil Proprietary Limited has produced petrol from shale during the last six months. 
I do not know. 
asked the Minister forthe Interior,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Minister's recent announcement that £80,000 was to be expended in Canberra for the provision of further office accommodation in Canberra, has this decision been altered ? 
If so, why? 3.What amount is the Government paying annually in rents for offices in Canberra? 
To whom are these rents being paid? 
The replies to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 1 and 2. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works considered the proposal to spend £80,000 on two temporary buildings in Canberra, but recommended that the proposal be not proceeded with. 
£5,472 12s.10d. 

 Mrs. M. Teather, Oakley &amp; Parkes, Canberra ShopsLtd..Lauriston Building &amp; Investment Co. Ltd..  Mrs. I.  Sakellaridis, Canberra Building &amp; Investment Co. Ltd., Commonwealth Bank, J. V. O'Keefe, the United Insurance Co. Ltd., The Queensland National Bank Ltd., Bundy Pastoral Prop. Co. Ltd., The Glen Mervyn Investments Pty. Ltd., Arthur Collett. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Lloyd's of London have no deposit lodged with the Commonwealth Government, as provided in the Commonwealth Insurance Act, for the security of policies issued in Australia and covering risks of millions of pounds? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
Lloyd's Corporation of London is an association of underwriters, but the corporation as such does not subscribe policies of insurance, the risks being accepted by the individual underwriting members of Lloyd's. 
Under section 8 of the Insurance Act the lodgment of a deposit in respect of insurance business in the Commonwealth on behalf of Lloyd's underwriters is the liability of the Australian broker or agent for Lloyd's. In compliance with the act, separate deposits have been made by Lloyd's brokers and agents in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
How much has the Commonwealth paid to the Midland Railway Company during the lasttwo years for freight and similar charges, in connexion with defence activities at Ger- aldton and Bullsbrook aerodromes, Western Australia? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers :  - 
Amounts paid to Midland Railway Company since June.1940 (first payment) are: - Fares and meals, £5835s. 8d. All equipment, stores,  &amp;c., are transported to Geraldton and Bulls- brook by the State Government Railways, the use of the Midland railway being confined to transport of personnel from other States who would otherwise necessarily have to stay over- night in Perth. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer;uponnotice  - 
What were the total costs in the conversion of Australianstockstotalling£30,011,000 on 28th May last,in London, and why was the stock offered at 99 per cent, instead of at par? 
To whom was the conversion entrusted and howmuchwas taken up by theBritishGovern- ment to make the conversion a success? 
What was the total cost of raising the recent Government loan of £ 35,000,000. 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
As the loan has not yet closed, information as to total cost is not available. The issue of the conversion offer at a discount was made, with the approval of the Loan Council, on the advice of the High Commissioner after full consideration of market conditions. 
Commonwealth- Bank of Australia. The extent of the British Government's assistance will not be known until after the loan has closed. 
Final figures arenotyet available. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for the 
Army,  upon notice - 
How many persons of enemy origin have been interned in Australia since the declaration of war in September, 1939? 
In what States have they been interned, and what number ineach State? 
How many of them have been sent to Australia by the Imperial authorities? 
How many have been granted their release by the Imperial authorities since their arrival in Australia? 
How many have been released by the Internee Courts of Appeal, appointed for the purpose in Australia? 
If any, onwhat grounds have they been released? 
How many Internee Courts of Appeal have been appointed in Australia, and what is the approximate cost annually of their maintenance? 
SenatorFOLL. - The Minister far the Army has supplied the following answers :  -  1to6. I regret that I am not in a position to furnish this information as it is not in the national interest that it should be disclosed. 
(a)Nineteen, namely, seven for the purposes of National Security (General) Regulation 26, and twelve for the purposes of National Security. (Aliens Control) Regulation 20. (b)The annual cost of maintenance depends on the number of appeals which are dealt: with from time to timebyeach particular tribunal and cannot be estimatedwith any degree of accuracy for any particular period of time. 
asked the Minister representing: the Minister for the Army,.  upon notice -  1.Is it a fact thatthe military authorities refuse to grant railway warrants to members of the Garrison Battalion whose homes are in the city, who complied with the law and changed their electoral addresses prior to the last State elections in NewSouth Wales? 
If so, will the Minister give sympathetic consideration to the matter and grant these members of the. garrison forces who are performing a national service the necessary rail warrants to enable them to visit their wives and families ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
Railway warrants are not at' present issued by the Department of the Army to members of garrison battalions when proceeding on recreation leave, but the whole matter is now receiving consideration. The New South Wales Government, however, grants free rail travel once every quarter to these members to enable them to visit their homes. The conditions under which this privilege was granted were determined by theNew South Wales authorities. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.15 a.m. to 5.20 p.m. 

The Opposition has just' taken certain action which is an indication of its definite policy on every occasion in the future on which a' formal motion for the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders shall be moved, unless the need for it be desperately urgent. Senators on this side of the chamber see no special reason for undue haste in the" consideration of this bill. We understand that the Treasury requires the measure to be passed at least before noon on the 30th June. The bill will be passed when we have finished with it. We have not had the same opportunities as members of the House of Representatives have had in recent days to discuss certain matters of great national importance which have arisen since we last met. We are here to do our duty, and we propose, as far as we can, to make it impossible for the Government in future to prevent us from doing our job as we think it ought to be done. We shall object to long adjournments, and Ave shall take every available . opportunity to see that the members of the Senate at least carry out honorablythe contract made by them with the members of the community at large to do their share of the work ofthis Parliament;. In the Houseof Representatives there is never such a. bustle in passing bills as is expected in this chamber. I admit that on some occasions measures of such urgency are brought before us that there is good reason for dealing with them with the utmost expedition.I hope that we shall be able to sort bills out for ourselves, and differentiatebetween those which should be fully debated and those which could be passed without lengthy discussion. 
On this measure, it would be easy to liberate a flood of criticism in connexion with many matters.Formyself, I do not. propose to be unduly critical of events of recent weeks in connexion with the tremendous struggle that is proceeding on the other side of the world. Some of the matters that I have in mind have been fully debated in the other branch of the legislature. I' do not intend to indulge merely in destructive criticism which might hamper the Government in speeding up the war effort. Much time could be spent in discussing, occurrences in Greece and. Crete, and many other happenings within our own borders in connexion with the administration of the various war services, but I shall not lay undue emphasis upon them. Nevertheless, I invite the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay.)  to accept a. little advice from me as Leader of the Opposition, and I tender it in a friendly spirit, desiring not only to make our democratic institutions what they ought to be, but also to prove that in a democratic country parliament can be made workable even under the present difficult circumstances. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  has returned from a remarkable tour. He has made many speeches both abroad and at home. By means of an address broadcast over the air; he has spoken to the people of Australia, and he has addressed! many sectional organizations whose members have assembled to hear him. Hehas also add ressed public meetings, and hasspoken freely to members of this Parliament, both in open sessions and at secret meeting of senatorsandmembers. I shall not discuss those speeches except in certain details. I shall adopt that attitude, not because the Prime Minister's remarks do not leave the way open to effective criticism by the Opposition, but because he is the Prime Minister of Australia and the leader of a Government elected under a democratic constitution. The time has long since passed for making speeches, and the people have the right to demand action. Members of the Opposition and also, I think, honorable senators opposite are anxious to cease talking and to get on with the work that is waiting to be done. 
I shall make a brief allusion to the address broadcast by the Prime Minister in what I understand was the greatest nation-wide hook-up that has ever been made in this country. In. that speech, he outlined the future policy of the Government and made many promises and statements as to his intentions, many of which could with fairness be critically examined. I shall content myself by saying that one remarkable and, I believe, regrettable feature of his latest broadcast was both sinister and prophetic. It was the only definite promise that he made. He suggested that certain action was necessary, and that he would bring down certain proposals, but, before he had made his speech, one of his proposals had been implemented by action and became opera- tive next morning. I refer to his threats against the liberty and freedom of organizations of the workers of Australia. 
I am not quoting his exact words, but that is the only definite thing he did say. The morning after his speech, the machinery was in operation, and was ready to. restrict the liberties of the industrial organizations. But I tell the Government now that it lias not a, fighting chance of "getting away" with this action. 
No. 
SenatorCOLLINGS-I intend to make my speechin my own way, and shall accept full responsibility for it. If a debate is to be indulged in about alleged subversive activities, I am ready for it. 
For example, I might ask when is there to be one decent case of a prosecution of a profiteer in this country ? 
I referred to a "decent case" of a prosecutionof the profiteer. I do not desire the Government to deal only with the small men, but I do suggest that it should deal firmly with the greater scoundrels who profiteer on every war effort. 
Yes. I am aware that a man at Jervis Bay was recently fined £110 for mentioning the movements of a certain vessel, but when I read that the case of the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited would not be heard until afterthe winter law vacation, I thought that it was a reflection on this Parliament that certain persons had not been placel under lock and key long ago. That is where they should be, together with the heads of certain boot companies and others. When I began my speech, I did not intend to travel along these lines. 
I do not wish to see trouble in this country. I do not want Labour members to have to plead with industrial organizations not to do things which should not be done. I do not want statements made by the Prime Minister, or any other responsible member of the Government, which, instead of creating a calm atmosphere in which the people would desire to do the things that the Prime Minister has in mind, would create an unfavorable atmosphere. I hope that the Prime Minister will remember that Australia's war effort cannot be carried out in that way, because the protection of this country depends entirely on what is done by the men whom he is threatening. 
The Labour Government in that State has speeded up, the war effort, particularly in regard to the protection of the community by means of air-raid precautions.Since its advent topower a few weeks ago, the war effort in New South Wales has been speeded up immensely.- If the Menzies Government would make way for a Labour government, it could beat the present Government out of sight in regard to the war effort. I do not want the Prime Minister and his colleagues to misunderstand the psychology of the Australian people. This nation did not come into existence by accident; it has been developed over a century and a half and as time went on our national characteristics improved, increased and intensified. Tens of thousands of people left the older countries of the world because of the tyranny and oppression practised in the land of their birth and came here imbued with the spirit of greater liberty and freedom, because there had bren developed in this country a standard of liberty and a conception of justice, that made life worth living. If the Prime Minister and his colleagues misunderstand the psychology of tire Australian people, great harm may be done. Let the right honorable gentleman and his M in is te rs realise .at' once that Australians will npt be driven. The  whole -history of. .their organizations  amply demonstrates, that. fact. I thought that wisdom would: 'suggest  [to-  the Prime Minister  that while  it .may be necessary  to  curtail  the' liberties of. the' people.- iri certain  respects, it should   not be. done in a -provocative. ;way. -There- is always another - way to. achieve, the -same 'end. That is all I am -pleading for. As the days go by, and this  .bill,  Ls.-giving .effect to what. the.. Prime- -Minister proposes to. do, he -will - be carefully watched. If regulations are conceived in a wrong, temperament,! -the Opposition- -will fight them to- the bitter- end, and take .the consequences.  At "this, juncture I propose to make -a few 'suggestions which, I think, would  be   helpful, to the Government. I trust that l ara,  not being  led into destructive criticism by. the provocative interjections of honorable senators opposite. That  is  farthest, from my mind. During the course of my speech I desire to offer nothing but constructive criticism. Every now and again proposals are made to induce the party to which I belong to abandon its attitude in respect to certain things. I tell the- Prime Minister, hi.s Government and the press, that it is hopeless for him to persist with these proposals, so I hope that we may hoar no more about them. I propose now to detail what they are. I tell the Leader of the Senate, in the hope that he will pass the information on to the Prime Minister, that there are certain things which the Australian Labour party, to which the Opposition in this chamber and the Opposition in the House of Representatives owe allegiance, has definitely and finally thrown into the discard. The first of these is a national government. Let us hear no more about it. The next is executive powers for the Australian Advisory War Council. That, also, is in the discard as long as Labour members continue to sit on the council. When the Government wants to get rid of the Labour members of the council it has merely to clothe it with executive powers. 
 The Opposition .does not want responsibility. 
SenatorHerbertHays.  -  What  does  the honorable senator mean by a.  new  order ? 
Hitler ling a new order - one based on bloodshed, military dictatorship, and the subjugation of small nations. Mussolini has one too, the essentials of his new order being his own personal glorification and the construction of an Italian Empire, existing at Hitler's pleasure. Nearer home, Japan fondly contemplates a new order for Asia, in which the Japanese would dominate nil the Eastern races  . . Tt is to be hoped that we are not fighting merely to preserve the present order, but that we will join in the fashion, and evolve yet another brand new order, quite the antithesis of Hitler's. In it, there must be no poverty, no unemployment, no slums, no social injustice and no starvation wages. 
Recently a Sunday newspaper which is published in New South Wales contained an article by a well-known writer who was congratulating a newly-born child. Addressing it by name, he said: "Rose, it is wonderfully brave of you to be born into this world ". That is true. I long for the introduction of a " new order " which will require no bravery on the part of people if they wish to fill their dwellings with happy, laughing, loving little children. I wish to see a world made fit not. only for heroes but also, for every one, men and women and above all, little children. Lest my suggestions be regarded as inadequate because they happen to emanate from me, I should like to support them by quoting the opinions of some authorities, at whom honorable senators opposite will not sneer. One of the most hopeful signs at the moment is the fact that the churches of Australia and of other countries, particularly of Great Britain, are declaring that a " new order " must be introduced. The Reverend  Dr. Ryan,  addressing the congregation at High "Mass in St. Mary'3 Cathedral, stated- 
The present social order was a ghastly failure in Australia and in every country in the civilized world. 
I invite honorable senators to heed that remark. Whatever we-do in the war effort during the .coming months, let us not be so blinded by the present awful tragedy that we do not  forsee  an even greater tragedy which must occur when war is over, unless we begin now to plan for a better state of society. The Reverend  Dr. Ryan  continued - 
The failure of the social order was not accidental. It was natural and inevitable. Industrial capitalism was and remains essentially unjust. The class war and general social unrest are the Dead Sea fruit of injustice. Social justice demands just distribution of goods among the people to whom those goods naturally belong. To fail in that distribution, as industrial capitalism has failed, is a crime. 
A lady addressing herself to the same subject, said - 
While we plan for the destructive tasks of war we should also plan for the creative tasksof peace, and she referred to malnutrition amongst children while food is destroyed, aged people who live on a meagre pension, sick who lack medical attention, and families growing up in overcrowded slums, bag huts and unemployed camps. Our watchwords, therefore, must be co-operation, not competition; public service, not private profit. Yet to achieve our new order, we must realize that after the war "the monopolists who own the machinery of production- and distribution, who control our monetary system, who even shape our thoughts, as they also own the press and tlie radio", will not become converted overnight to tlie principles they now refuse to accept. They will give up their power only if they are forced to do so by the force of public opinion, but, as public opinion oan be swayed, it is the task of the leaders in all working-class organizations to bring unity amongst the masses, to educate them to think and act alike so that when they speak, they speak with one voice. 
I have read those quotations only because they epitomize successfully my thoughts upon these subjects. The words recall to my mind: speech after: speech which has been delivered in this chamber by the Opposition.How often havewe said that private profit must give way to public benefit;, that there mustbe no "haves" and "have nots " in. the one community ; and that we should work for the abolition, of slums, unemployment and poverty?Repeatedly, we have directed attention to the destruction of those things which the people need for health, comfort and satisfactory physical development'. To our representations the reply is invariably, given thatsuch conditions mustcontinue. But, they continue for only one reason, namely, that the present social order is based on injustice and class exploitation. The Government must plan for victory not only in war but also in the peace that will follow the conclusion of hostilities. 
I shall now referto several items which come within the scope of: practical politics at the moment. On the noticepaper in my name . stands a question which, I presume, will be answered some day. The, question relates to the admission into the Royal Australian Air Force and other services of women who are paid a proportion of the wages which a man would receive for doing similar work. Honorable senators will be interested to learn that the Westminster City Council has agreed tha.t women employed as war-time motor-drivers and street-sweepers shall, during a probationary period of four months, be paid 75 per cent, of the male wage and thereafter the full rate. It is unnecessary to wait for the introduction of the " new order " before adopting a similar practice in Australia. If women are pressed into service - and some of them are doing wonderful work- they should receive the full rate of pay after serving a probationary period. At most jobs to which women turn their hands, they are as efficient as men. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 till 8 p.m. 

The Supply Bill now under consideration calls for little comment.Iam hopeful that  Senator Darcey  will have an opportunity to enlarge upon the point which I now propose to raise. As Ihave already said, the Oppositionwill agree to the passage of the measure. We know that it is necessary togive the Government Supply for the nexttwo months. However, I shall stress a few facts which have an indirect, but none the less important, bearing on the financing of our war effort. The public debt of Australia at present is £1,402;000,000: That is a stupendous figure, but, of course, it will increase still further.. It represents roughly an average of £237  per capita  of our population. There must come a breaking point beyond. Avhich. it will be impossible for us to go. I do not propose to discuss in detail the method by which the Governmen t is financing thewar.I t is using, to some degree, each of three methods,twoofwhich are orthodox and the third unorthodox. In my opinion, it is not using the third, namely, the utilization of national credit for national needs, so much as it should. However, the point I stress is that, so far as I can see, only one section, of the community willcome out of thewar showing a profit. That section can he simply classified under the heading profiteers. I wish to know whether the Government is prepared to consider a drastic reduction of the rate of interest being paid for loans floated forwar purposes. The Government of Great Britain has just floated a loan of £500,000.000 at 2 per cent. When is this 
Government going to wake up, and follow' Great  Britain's  example in that respect 9 
Under the bill -we are asked to appropriate £15,141,000. , That amount is one-sixth of the sum which has already been voted by Parliament for the financial year 1940-41. The Treasurer, in his second-reading speech, indicated that, except for a small increase of expenditure on defence and war services, no new expenditure is contemplated, and that the Government does not intend to depart from its  present  policy. 
I congratulate the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Poll)  and, of course, the Government, upon the fact that, at last, action is being taken, although somewhat belatedly, to clear away the slum dwellings at Molonglo, and also to improve the dwellings at Causeway. As I have repeatedly raised these matters in this chamber, I am glad to see that a great improvement is now being effected. However, I cannot congratulate the Government upon its continued expenditure in respect of rentals of buildings to bouse various departments and officials of this Parliament in each of the capital cities, including Canberra. The amount expended annually in rentals of such premises would provide the interest on the capital cost of erecting buildings in 'Canberra to overcome the Government's difficulty in providing not only its own accommodation, but, also adequate housing for the people of Canberra. 
I also protest very strongly against the holding of Cabinet meetings in any other city but the National Capital. Canberra was built as the National Capital, and it should bc used for that purpose. 
What did Western Australia get out of it? 
On every side in Canberra one notices congestion. Ever since I have been a member of the Senate, there has been a waiting list of 400 applicants  for  homes. Certainly, the Government is building houses, but the fact remains that the waiting list is never reduced j simply because this  job  is  not  being done efficiently. Whenever, this matter was raised in the past, the Government excused its failure to deal effectively with it by saying that sufficient money was not available. That fallacy, however, cannot be exploited io-day ; we know now that the Government can get sufficient money  for  that purpose. 
I also protest very definitely against the continued encroachment upon the accommodation provided for honorable members in Parliament House. It is an insult to every member of Parliament, and particularly to senators, that Parliament House is increasingly becoming a. secretariat. I again remind, the Government that, as from the 1st July next, it will not be able to ignore our protest in matters of this kind. When the numerical strength of the Opposition in this chamber is increased as from that date, we .shall .bo able to ;insist that Parliament House be preserved for the use and:  work  of members of Parliament, which is the specific object for which it  was  built. 
I ask the Leader of the Senate to make available to each honorable senator a copy of the statement which he made to-night dealing.  with  the  new  ministerial appointments and ministerial representation in this chamber. 
I revert to the thought to which I was giving expression before the suspension of -the sitting. At the moment we have to be properly realistic and have to bend our efforts to the  Avar  with the hope and. prayer that it will end in our victory,  but  I stress again that the  Avar  will have  been  entirely futile if out of the ruins  Ave  are not able to build a better  world.  The working class, of which we on this side of the chamber are members and representatives, has more to lose than -any other section of tha community if this war does not,  end in  our victory. 'For the last  i&gt;0  years, at least, the working class has been developing in this country a standard of living which is. probably bettor  than  that in any other country, but  Ave  have not come  Avi.th.in  .measurable distance of what  Ave believe  to be our just rights as members of a civilized community. Not only  have Ave  standards to preserve, but  also Ave  hops that, as the years pass,  Ave  shall be able to improve those standards and bring, a better life to everybody. If the  Avar  be lost by us, we shall have lost that opportunity. Regardless of nationality, political views and religious beliefs, 
Ave  must band together to seize the opportunity that to-day presents to institute a  new  social order. To-day is the only time; yesterday »has passed, and. tomorrow may never come. The truly great is he who -works each day to make a better to-morrow. That is not something said merely, for effect; it is a statement which I should like to make with the same fervour as I am using now if  it  were the last speech I had the opportunity to make. I enjoin all honorable senators, especially those opposite, to bear in mind  AA-hat  I have said and to remember that it is the duty of everybody each day to contribute towards the establishment, after this world tragedy has passed, of a  new  order in  which  there will be no unemployment, no  poverty,  no slums, and none of those things which disgrace our civilization to-day. The new order will come, not by chance, but as the result of the active participation in its establishment of every one of goodwill in the community. 
.- It is in no spirit" of carping, criticism . tha t I refer to some matters connected with Australia's  Avar  effort. In. these anxious times criticism is only permissible if an improvement be sought. Many employees at the munition factories near Melbourne are concerned at the slowness- of output from these factories. I do not know whether the cause is the inclination  of  some employees to ease down, the lack of machine tools or a temporary shortage of essential  raw material; it, perhaps, is a combination of all three. It would he ungenerous not to give credit to the responsible Minister, the Director-General of Munitions and his associates for the progress made in the herculean task set them shortly after the outbreak of war. Australia has cause to be proud of them and the "overall" army, but the time has arrived when we should cease patting ourselves on the back for what has been accomplished in the production of war equipment, and cone :n tra te on a "flatout " effort, brushing aside all obstacles to that end. The. Government has the power and should use it ruthlessly. 
Many times in this chamber I have advocated a fully equipped army of 400,000 men plus a powerful air force for Australia's defence. The war has now been in progress for 21 months, and the objective has not yet, been reached. Setting aside the protection of the Navy, which has a specific role to fill, I liken the defence of this country to the letter Y. one fork being in the Middle East, the other in the Near East, and the stem, thicker and sturdier, in Australia. I. include in the general term " army " the air force, as it was included in the last war. The air force is as much a part of the land forces as are tanks, armoured cars_ and artillery. Apparently no difficulty exists in the recruiting of personnel for the Royal Australian Air Force. whereas the Army, both at home and overseas, is  scarching  for men. The reason is not an insufficiency of man-power, because thousands are looking on when a man's job awaits them. The Government must accept share of the blame for the stalemate. In his broadcast speech, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  forecast an improvement. From time to time Government, spokesmen give the impression that men do not matter, and that equipment and more equipment are paramount. None but a fool would minimize the importance of adequate equipment, but the provision and development of both equipment and men must take place side by side. We were driven from Crete not only because we lacked equipment, but also because of lack of men and air co-operation. In the circumstances, air co-operation was impossible, and before this war is won there will be more occa-  910ns when air protection will not be forthcoming. Superiority of fighting equipment did not drive our splendid troops to the evacuation beaches, it was the constant stream of airborne enemy troops which overwhelmed General  Freyberg's  men. Numbers of trained and well-equipped men are essential when an important, objective has to be attained or a vital locality held. Brigadier Inglis, who was General Freyberg's right-hand man in the defence of Crete, is now in London hammering that home to the authorities. But are we never to learn the lesson? Amidst all the clamour for war equipment, no emphasis is placed on the necessity to maintain the Australian Imperial Force abroad at full strength. Of what good, is equipment if battalions are so reduced in  numbers  and so exhausted by doing, double duty that they cannot effectively use that equipment?" Australia must back up the Australian Imperial Force with men as well as with equipment. The diggers of 1941 must not be put in the same position as the diggers of 1918 of looking over a. shoulder and saying, " When will they come, where are they?" The men who brought the German  panzer divisions in Greece to a standstill, who sank the Italian cruiser  Bartolomeo  Collconi,  who are bringing the Nazi airmen down to earth, and who are defying the Germans to take Tobruk, arc the real defenders of our democracy. Some people in this country who have an anti-British outlook read of the Crete campaign and immediately claimed that it was another Gallipoli in which the British had given the Anzacs the brunt of the work. To such people I point out that during the eight months of the Gallipoli campaign the Australian Imperial Force lost 26,094 men killed and wounded, whilst the British lost 119,696. Those are official figures and may be found on page 4.04, Vol. II. of  Dr. C.  E. W. Bean's  Official History of Australia in the War of  1914-18. They should silence some of those croakers whose whisperings are having a prejudicial effect on Australian Imperial Force recruiting. If I were asked for some of the reasons for the stalemate in recruiting for the Australian 
Imperial Force, I should say, first, that the constant placing on a pedestal of the " 6ver-a.ll army" whose job, important though it may be, is a sinecure compared with that of the sailors, soldiers, airmen. and merchant seamen overseas, is having an adverse effect. Secondly, crowds of men of military age are employed in the Defence Department and in the Public .Service generally. A ruthless combing out must be undertaken sooner or later. With the situation overseas so desperate, the feelings of no one can be spared. Prospective recruits ask themselves, " Why should I risk my life when these eligible men are in cushy jobs for the duration?" Thirdly, there has been delay on the part of the Government in amending the Commonwealth Public Service Act to extend to returned soldiers preference to cover the present war. The men now serving in the forces are not concerned so much with the rate of pay which they are receiving as with. obtaining an assurance that when they return some permanent occupation will bc open to them. I was pleased to hear from the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett),  who, incidentally, we are all pleased to hear has been given full ministerial rank, that the Repatriation Department has been able to place in employment the majority of soldiers now returning from overseas. ' I should like to know,  however, whether those positions are permanent. I am inclined to doubt it. Provision should be made in the Commonwealth Public Service Act to make it obligatory for the Commonwealth Public Service Board to give priority in permanent status to the young men who are now making such heavy sacrifices. No more permanent appointments should be made until the termination of the war, and young men who are now consolidating their positions in Government departments should be told that their appointments are only temporary. Lastly, there is the rate of pay of men in the lower ranks of the services. The men now overseas are serving not so much for the pay as the cause, but eligible recruits are hanging back because the Australian Imperial Force rate of pay has  not risen equivalently with the wages in Australia. The soldiers have no unions to plead and fight their cases for them. It is up to the Government to revise the Australian Imperial Force rates of pay. I am the treasurer of a fund known as the Returned Soldiers League War Service Fund and occasionally we have to pay; out £3 or £4 - in one case it was £10 - to the mother or wife of a man who is overseas, in order to make sure that the rent is paid. We should not have to do that. It is no use shutting our eyes to the fact  that recruiting has not been satisfactory during the past few months. Perhaps the Prime Minister's broadcast dealing with the desperate situation overseas and the statement of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Curtin)  that operations in the Middle East are of vital importance to Australia's safety, might induce some eligible young men to realize their responsibilities. I should like the Minister representing the Minister for the Army to tell me who is the officer at Army head-quarters who has advised the Minister that an exAustralian Imperial. Force officer who is a little more than 50 years of age has no place in Australia's defence scheme. Such an officer might be too old for the Australian Imperial Force or the Militia, but. surely a useful task can be found for him. .Shortly after the outbreak of war, many middle-aged officers and non-commissioned officers were called up ostensibly for the duration of the war. They sold their businesses or arranged for them to bo carried on in their absence, but about a month ago, they were sent polite letters stating that their services were no longer required. They wanted younger men. That ' is a waste of good man-power, and I suggest to the Minister that the capabilities of every applicant should be fully considered. I am not talking now of the misfits or square pegs in round holes. I am talking of capable men whose services should be used to the limit. 
I am glad to see that the Minister has called for a report on the conditions of certain garrison units which are scattered all over Australia. Some of them comprise only 10, 20 or perhaps 30 men. They are living under conditions which can hardly be regarded as satisfactory. An unlined hut with a small brazier or oil stove might have been all right on  the western front during the last war when nothing could be done about it, but here in Australia, thesemiddle-aged men who are doing a good job and will' be doing it for the duration, of the war, are entitled to the same accommodation as is provided for the Militia or Australian Imperial Force in the bigger camps. I hope that the Ministerwilllookinto that matter and. "tick off" whoever has been responsible for failing to provide better conditions for these men. 
There is a rising tide of public opinion in favour of the appointment of a commander-in-chief of Australia's home defence army - a man with the Monash drive and imagination, who could gather together the more orlessisolated commands and divisions, complete their training, and so make them readytotakethe field. He should be provided with a staff thoroughly acquainted with their duties. Divisions and commands are at present under the control of the Military Board. I know the multitudinous nature ofthe duties which fall upon that body. So far, they have done splendid work; but they have not the personal touch so necessary in welding an army into an efficient fighting force. I should say, too, that the Royal Australian Air Force should be brought under the control of this commander-in-chief. We should then be assured of co-operation between the two services should trouble come nearer to our shores. We do not want a repetition of the lack of co-operation' demonstrated in the Middle East. I suggest that the Government recall LieutenantGeneral  Sir Thomas  Blarney to take up this duty. Hehas first-hand knowledge of modern war technique.  His  duties as General Officer Commanding the Australian Imperial Force in the Middle East could easily be taken over by either General Mackay or General Lavarack. He has a command which I regard as superfluous at the present time, that of.  Deputy  CommanderinChief of the forces inthe Middle East. He could be far better employed in gathering together the different sections of a home defence army. The Government should not leave the matter in abeyance until trouble is upon us. There are no declarations of war in these days, and the Government should not. be caught napping. I hope that the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  will be disposed to take some little notice of these observations. 
 I listened with interest to  Senator Brand  and I am confident that he at least understands the position. That is understandable in view of the worthy part that he played in the last war. The honorable senator who wanted to know what is wrong with recruiting, suggested as a solution the application of economic conscription to Commonwealth public servants. Apparently the idea is that employees- of the Commonwealth Public Service should be informed that their jobs are only temporary, regardless of the good service they have rendered and are still rendering to the Commonwealth. In other words they are to be marked down for slaughter or their jobs will be taken away from them. Apparently  Senator Brand  and the Government do not appreciate fully the real cause of the decline in recruiting. If there has been a lag in recruiting the Government is entirely responsible for it. Some years ago in New South Wales there was formed what was known as the New Guard. That body set itself up in the form of a Fascist orNazi organization. Its members believed that Hitler was the only man who could do any good for the world. The head man of the New Guard - the man who made all the bullets fired by Eric Campbell - is now the Director-General of Recruiting, Major-General H. W. Lloyd. The fanatic who wanted to upset constitutional government inNew South Wales ; the man who created a sensation by cutting the ribbon at the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, and was placed in an asylum for his stupidity,De Groote, is now advising the Government in regard to itsmilitary transport system. The workers of Australia remember these people and always will remember them. Theybelieve; as I do, that should Hitler win this war, he would not send Germansheretorun the country, but would- establish a. puppet government consisting of the Lloyds, De Grootes and Campbells in this country. As I said some time ago, the right place for these people is in an internment camp, and not in our military system. Until tlie Government is prepared to remedytlie present state of a iia i rs, the working people cannot be expected to offer their services. We on this side of the chamber arc well aware that there is a lag in recruiting; the Government has admitted it. What else could be expected in view of the fact that our troops in Greece and Crete were not fully equipped? 'We know that they had no equipment for the first six months of their stay in Palestine. They fought the campaign right through Libya to Benghazi with equipment supplied by the British Government, but, in the face of a swift thrust by the Italian and German forces, that territory was lost. Then our forces went to Greece without full equipment. Every man on the . Government side of the chamber knows that. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  said so, and the newspapers have said so. The point I wish to make is that despite the fact that our soldiers have been fighting with inferior equipment, there has been a hold-up of the supply of material for the manufacture of arms and munitions. There has been a shortage of aluminium for the building of aeroplanes, yet those in charge of our war effort are apparently prepared to allow the Main Roads" Board of New South Wales to pack the edges of its bitumen roads with bauxite, the Ore from which aluminium is produced. No attempt was made by the Government to increase the rate of production of war equipment until pressure was brought to bear upon it. by the Advisory War Council and members of the Labour party in the House of Representatives. It had not built, or even planned to build,  a  single tank, although the tank is one of the most important items of military equipment required in this war. The Government has fallen down on its job and has failed to direct the war effort in a proper manner, lt, has depended upon  Mr. Essington  Lewis,  Mr. Thorpe  and others of their kind to carry on, and they have not done a very good job. I trust, that the newly appointed. Ministers will make prompt decisions and put them into effect so that the welfare of the diggers will be promoted as  Senator Brand  has requested. In the interests of recruiting the Government should change its attitude towards members of our armed forces. I have here the case of a. man named Dunstan who served in the war of  1914-18.  It was brought to my notice by Lieutenant-Colonel  F.  S. McClean, who was an artillery officer in the last war. The Repatriation Commissioner refused Dunstan's application for a military pension, whereupon he wrote to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett).  Some time later the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  forwarded to him a letter from  Senator Collett,  dated the 12th June, 1941, which stated,  inter alia - 
The tribunal acts quite independently of the commission and was appointed by the Government at the request of returned men themselves for the purpose of finally deciding appeals relating to rejected claims. It is not subject to Ministerial direction, and consequently I cannot interfere with the decision arrived at in the case of  Mr. Dunstan. 
When Dunstan returned from the war of 1914-18 he was operated upon by  Sir Herbert  Maitland.  Dr. Burton  Bradley wrote about Dunstan's case as follows : -  lie  Dunstan. My contention is that the operation done in 1U19 was performed as a military act; therefore all consequences thereto are bound up with that initial action and the department must admit liability. 

 Dr. Poate, who has performed major surgical operations on many returned soldiers, made the following statement to Dunstan :- 
You should soc the claims officer at the Repatriation Department, explain the circumstances as  regards  the operation in lilli) and present the copies of X-ray report, also say you have seen mc. They will ask me for a report; then I can substantiate your claim. 

 Dr. Stormon issued the following certificate: ; 
This is to certify that I operated on  Mr. E.  A. Dunstan on 2nd August, 1940, and found that his illness is due to adhesions resulting from his operation done in 1D19 by  Sir Herbert  'Maitland. 
At that time Dunstan had returned from abroad, and the operation was performed at the Prince of Wales Military Hospital at Randwick. Because the Repatriation Commission has determined that Dunstan is not entitled to a pension the AttorneyGeneral states that the case is outside of  ministerial jurisdiction. The decision should be reviewed because, as LieutenantColonel F. S. McCleanhas said, that sort  of  treatment, which has been meted out to hundreds of returned soldiers, is detrimental to the Australian Imperial Force recruiting campaign. 
SenatorCollett. - Has not the case been reviewed? 
No. 
No. 
SenatorCollett. - He has the right to appeal. 
He was informed that his case was outside of ministerial jurisdiction, and that nothing could be clone for him. Thousands of men who returned from, the war of 1914-18 received a very raw deal. 
It is not exaggeration: I myself can produce hundreds of such cases, and the number for the whole Commonwealth must total thousands. 
TheGovernment's promises to the returned soldiers have not been kept. I have told the honorable gentleman before what the returned soldiers thinks of this Government. I have before me details of the treatment meted out to Sapper James Clarke, No. NX9187, of the 2/1 Field Company, Engineers'. Clarke left Australia as an expert tradesman, in a railway unit. He served abroad for a considerable time and then became sick-. When he entered hospital he was informed that he was no longer an expert, but an ordinary private, and consequently his pay was reduced from 7s. 9d. a day to 5s. 9d. a day, and the Government claimed from him the sum of £14 for amounts overpaid. According to his fieldcard he was then suffering from dyspepsia. When he returned from abroad he was told that he might apply to the Repatriation Department for a war pension. He lodged an application but received' the following reply from the Repatriation Commission :  - 
  With reference to your claim forpayment of awar pension, you are informed thatthe Repatriation Board has fully considered the application but is unable to accept your condition of Gastritis as being, due to or materially aggravated by your war service. You are therefore ineligible to receive medical or pension benefits in respect thereof, but' if you so desire you may appeal against this decision. 
That letter was d ated the 4th April, 1941. He considers that the commission has tricked him, because he was physically fit when he enlisted, as he passed all of the searching medical tests-. He went back to the Railways Department in order to secure his former civil position, but theRailways Commissioner said that because he had enlisted without official permission his job was no longer available to him.. Then he went to the Repatriation. Commission, and claimed thatashe had no job he was entitled to receive sustenance for his wife and three children. He was told that he was not entitled to sustenance because he was receiving a pension of £1 a week for his service in the war of 1914.-18. I feel sick when I hear all this prattle about what the Government is doing for returned soldiers. I have here another case relating to A. Middleton, who served with the Army for eight months. He attended an officers' training school, where the study preyed upon his mind to such a degree that he became mentally deranged. The military authorities sent him to Broughton Hall, but they dischargedhim from the Army before they did so. On the 20th, January of this year,  Colonel M.  W. Logan, commanding officer of the Details Discharge Depot, wrote to his father inthe following terms: - 
With reference to your telephone conversation of to-day, it is regretted that it was found necessary to send Private Middleton to the Reception House. Apparently he is suffering from a, nervous breakdown and is not exactly responsible for what ho says according to the Regimental Medical Officer. He is very worried as to what is going to happen to his wife and children and although he asks that his wife be notified, it would probably be better if you could see her and explain the position. The sum of£116s. is due to him for final pay and this will be held by the Paymaster until 'such time as Private Middleton is lit to receive it. 
Middleton had submitted himself to all of the medical tests and had been passed as physically fit. He did not become mentally deranged until after he had entered the officers training school. When this occurred our so-called kindly military system discharged him and disclaimed any further responsibility for him. I ask the Minister to review this case. I understand that shortly after he was admitted to the mental hospital  Middleton's  promotion to the rank of lieutenant was approved. When he was taken to the hospital at Lewisham he mct  Dr. Bond,  who was one of the three medical- officers who discharged him.  Dr. Bond  said : " I am sorry, old man. We thought you were malingering. You are a very sick man. I am sorry that action was taken regarding you." Morally, Middleton still belongs to the military system,  and his care should be the responsibility of the Government. I trust that his case will be reconsidered and that his wife, who is receiving only__a food allowance from the State Government, will be provided with the compensation to which she is entitled. Sapper Clarke, to. whom I referred earlier, told me that he could bring twenty cases similar to his own to my attention. I said that one case should be sufficient. I assure the Minister that if justice is not given to these men I shall bring many more cases before the attention of this chamber at an early date. 
Another injustice affecting members of the Australian Imperial Force was brought to my notice in a letter which I received from a soldier now serving in Palestine. He complains that the Egyptian Government charges ls. each as postage for letters sent by air mail by members of the Australian Imperial Force. The ordinary charge levied on a field post card is 3d., whereas during the war of 1914-18 soldiers were not required to put stamps on field cards. I ask the Government to rectify this position, and I shall be pleased to hear of the steps that it. proposes to take. I shall not deal further with the deficiencies of our war effort at the present time. I shall wait in order to see what actions are taken by the newly appointed Ministers. 
I wish to bring to the notice of the Government once again the case of Cap tain Conway, for nothing has yet been done about it. Honorable senators will remember that a select committee of the Senate recommended that an  ex gratia  payment of £100 should be made to Captain Conway. When the war broke out Captain Conway offered his services at the Victoria Barracks, but he felt, from the treatment that he received, that he was not wanted. He thereupon wrote to the then Minister for the Army  (Mr. Street),  who replied to the effect that there was no bias against him and that as soon as a suitable position could be found for him he would be appointed to it. No position has been found. Captain Conway has written to each new Minister for the Army, but, so far, without any success. On one occasion Captain Conway and I interviewed the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender),  and he said that he considered that Conway ought to receive the £100 which the Senate select committee recommended should be paid to him. We know that later  Mr. Spender  denied that he had made any such statement. Subsequently, Captain Conway wrote to the Acting Prime Minister and requested that the money should be paid to him. He was told to apply to  Mr. Spender  for payment and he did so, but without result. Seven Ministers have examined Captain Conway's submissions and always the same story has been told. Captain Conway has been treated in a despicable fashion. Certain charges against him, which appeared in his file, were ordered by General Bruche to be erased, but instead of that being done, four copies of a certain letter were put in different places in his file. Only a thin red line was drawn through the blue printing of the parts of the letter to which objection had been taken. Conway was undoubtedly the subject of a gross libel and, in my opinion, is fully entitled to the  ex gratia  payment recommended to be made to him. When it assumes office the Labour party will see that justice 13 done in this case. 
On the 6th June, 1941, Captain Conway wrote the following letter to the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  : - 
Dear  Sir, 
At tlie suggestion of the Treasurer, the  Hon.  A. W. Fadden, the following is forwarded for your information and consideration. 
In your recent letters to the Treasurer and the  Hon.  J. A. Beasley, you attempt to explain with incredible inconsistency and flagrant falsehood, what the  Hon.  Allan MacDonald described as the contemptible conduct of the Government which refused to accept a verdict of the Senate in my favour, when, as a Minister, a lieutenant-colonel, and a King's. Counsel, you are expected to respect truth and justice. 
You informed  Senator S.  K. Amour, in my presence, that the Government should comply with the decision of the Senate. Youconveyed the impression to the  Hon.  Allan MacDonald. that it was the Government and not you that refused' to honour the verdict of the Senate; and you tried to convince the Treasurer and  Mr. Beasley.  that. I had not suffered any injustice by falsely stating, that my grievance was imaginary. 
When Minister, for Defence, the  Hon..  J. B. Chifley, investigated my complaint) he found that I had been slandered, and directed that the slanderous statements be expunged from the records, and yet you. falsely say that. I did not suffer any injustice. It would be interesting to know what you call injustice? 
Later, the Senate investigated the matter,decided that my services had always been very satisfactory, discovered that the slanderous statements had not been expunged, but had been multiplied, illuminated and distributed in the records, and unanimously agreed that I should receive an appeasement of £100, which the Government declined to pay. 
In the face of these facts you sabotage truth and justice in order to defeat the Senate, but truth and justice are not so easily defeated) and I draw your attention to. a statement madein the Senate last August by the Leader of the Opposition, the  Hon.  J. S.  Col lings,  who said,  inter alia, "  Conway has provedhis case time after time, and at the first opportunity Labour will see that the verdict of the Senate is fully confirmed". 
Copies of this letter are being forwarded to the  Hon.  J. S: Ceilings, J. A. Beasley, A. W. Fadden, S. K. Amour and to  Mr. M.Falstein,  M.H.R. 
It is clear from that letter than Conway feels that he has been treated most unjustly and that he is very incensed thereby. Surely it should be possible to find a position for this man who did meritorious service for the country during the lastwar but was denied the opportunity of going abroad when he was willing to do so. We are now told that he is too old for a job in the Army. 

 Senator Brand has also complained on behalf of ex-officers of the Australian Imperial Force who consider that they are being unjustifiably discarded. Because of the attitude that has been adopted by the Department of the Army towards former officers of the Australian ImperialForce, the military camps of New South Wales are to-day seething with discontent. I know of men in those 
Gamps who in the last Avar enlisted' as. privates and won their commissionson the field of battle. They are still anxious to go overseas to fight but they are being: told that they are too old for that purpose. They arekeptincampsin Australia. to trainmen.who enlist here.. They havetogowiththe men on route marchesandintobivouacs,with the sky as their roof; for four days and four nights ata times Theysufferall the rigours of the hard training that the men have to undergo, only to find that young " fops "' whohave spent a short period of training: in a military schoolaresent along to take their placesas officers of the forceswhich go overseas.. These young. " fops " flash, along so rapidly that it is hard to see them. I have had many exAustralianImperial Force officers complain to me about the treatment they have received. They have told me : " We pray every night, for the diggers - not for the officers, but the boys who have to goaway under, such officers ". Many of these exAustralian Imperial Force officers are only 42: or 43 years of age, and the experience that they had in the lastwar, would be invaluable to the boyswho are now goingaway, yet they are told that theyaretooold. 
I  had experience in the lastwar in the 18th Battalion, inwhich there were some old and some young officers, and it. was notvery happy: The colonel, our battalion major and another major, the adjutantandseven of: our lieutenants wore cashiered for cowardice. Such a situation is not desirable. It is unfortunate that some flunkey in the Army should be permitted to make a decision that has- the effect of preventing old soldiers; some ofwhom are majors and sonic captains, from taking the part that they desire to take in the present Avar. I should like toknow the name of the officerwho made this decision. 
Itwouldbefarbetter to accept the services of former Australian Imperial Force officers whowanttogoabroad, than to apply economic conscription to theboys of the Public Service,as  Senator Brandwould  like to do. The exAustralian Imperial Force menwould make good soldiers and they are filled, with the spirit of adventure. Theywould be an acquisition to the Army. I cannot believe that young men who are forced into the Army by a process of economic conscription will ever make good soldiers. 
I wish also to make reference to the Home Guard to which  Senator Brand  referred. The Home Guard is required to look after internees. The internees at the Hay internment camp receive about £1000 a week to which Australia has to contribute £250. These internees are permitted to post letters and parcels of up to 3 lb. free, but the diggers who guard them, for which they receive only a " dollar " a day, are obliged to put stamps on the letters and parcels that they post. Surely the Government could treat the diggers at least as well as it treats the internees. 
Some time ago, on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, I referred to the supply of blue metal under an Army contract. The Minister for the Army subsequently made a statement to the press to the effect that everything was in order and that there was no need for drastic action. The Minister said that only about 30s. was involved in my complaint. Honorable senators will recollect thatI stated that the orders and the receipts for blue metal were invariably signedby officers on behalf of a Ma jor Sinden. It is significant.thatalthoughtheMinister. said thatthere was nothing.in my complaints,  Major Sinden  wasremovedfrom his positionshortlyafter the Minister made his press statement. Ifthere was. nothing in my complaints, why was  Major Sinden  relieved of his responsibilities? Apparently, at some quiet moment, on a dark -night, he was just pushed out of the way. Naturally, he feels that aninjustice has been done tohim. He was a director of three companies and considers that he had the requisite ability to do the job that was entrusted to him. I contend that all the circumstances of this case show that he was not given a fair deal. If only a sum of 30s. was involved, as stated by the Minister, I do not think  Major Sinden  should have been "sacked". 

 Senator Collings (The Leader of the Opposition) sought to learn when the Government intends to prosecute the " big fish ", for profiteering. I believe that something will have to be done in respect of Australian Consolidated Indus tries Limited. The  Sydney Morning Herald,  of the 16th June, published the following :  - 
The net profit of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited for the year ended31st March was a record, amounting to £403.595, compared with the previous record, of £351,039 for 1939-40. The ordinary dividend was raised from 7 per cent. to 8 per cent. 
I understand that the Government proposes' to take action in connexion with this matter. 
I remind the Senate that some time ago I asked a question regarding the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited. The Minister for the Army did not reply for some considerable time, and when he did so he was evasive and made no admissions. He told the Senate that everything was in order. A censure motion was moved in the Parliament of New South Wales, and a royal commission was appointed to vindicate and whitewash the Minister of Justice,  Mr. Treatt,  who had reduced from £1,400 to £500 the fine imposed on. the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited. The Federal Government then appointed a second royal commission. Yet. when I first raised the matter : the Minister forthe Army saidthateverything was in order. He made the samestatement in regard to the supply of metal. The Government further announced that itintended to arraign the boot manufacturers before the court; but they have not yet been brought before the court. I wonder when action will be taken against those people! Such persons should be arrested and put in gaol like common thieves, and tried immediately. They should be put where they' would not be able to make further profits for the duration of this war. That is what would be done to a man who stole a loaf of bread in order to feed his hungry children. All the racketeers' who are" making a' fortune out of this war are left unmolested, and for that reason the public has no confidence in the Menzies Government, and thereis a lag in recruiting.  Senator Brand  should make sure of what is the cause of the slackening of munition production in Melbourne, and not leave the inference to be drawn that the employees are responsible. I have evidence which proves that men who are working in munition establishments are just about atthe end of their physical resources. They have very little time off, and in many instances work twelve hours a day. Admittedly, the employees in some industries have not much to do. In fact, most of the munition annexes have had to put. men off, because they have not been able to obtain necessary supplies of raw materials. 
It is said that theRoyal Australian Air Force can obtain plenty of recruits. It would obtain a much larger number if those who offered their services and were prepared to proceed overseas in any capacity could be trained as pilots, air observers, air gunners or wireless operators. Many of the men who have enlisted, if without a social background, have been detailed to perform the duties of a messman, or have been ordered' to clean up the huts or do the work of a wharf labourer. They havecertainly been, given a uniform. The ordinary civilian should be allowed todo the work of a wharf labourer at a wharf labourer'srate of wage, and applications should be invited for messmen to dothe work of messmen. There are many men who cannot pass the medical test of physical fitness which would enable them to enterthe Air Force, but have the necessary qualifications for this class ofwork. Boys should not be misled into offering their services. I had occasion to make an appeal to the Government in connexion with the messmen at the Richmond aerodrome, and' I understand that' action was- taken in the matter. It is nauseating to men who are in the Air, Force to have to do this class of work. The Minister for Air  (Mr. McEwen)  should take cognizance of the position, and. effect an alteration at the earliest possible moment. There are plenty ofmen who are- unable, because of physical unfitness, to obtain employment in a war industry, but would be prepared to engage in this occupation. The work should be carried out according to the provisions of the hotel and catering employees award or the miscellaneous workers award. Men who obtain entry into the Air Force are proud of the fact,  but  they soon lose their pride when they are asked to scrub floors or to do other work of flunkeys in offices. This is wrong. I ask the Minister for 
Air to give to those lads who are now required to do this work, an opportunity to show their ability in other directions. I believe that attention to matters of this sort would lead to a better flow of recruits than there has been up to the moment. 
The best advice thatI can give to the Government is that the necessary credits for the prosecution of the war be obtainedthrough, our great Commonwealth Bank. I am induced to this belief by the answer which was given to a question that I asked in connexion with the matter. My question was - 
Is it a fact that the findings of theRoyal Commission on Banking. show that the Commonwealth Bank can lend interest-free money to the Government? 
The reply that I received from the Minister representing the Treasurer was that the Commonwealth Bank was so empowered. Therefore, the Commonwealth, should not continue to raise money from private banking institutions to aninsupportable amount, and thus burdenthe people with a tremendous interest bill. 
My friend  Senator Herbert  Hays asked my leader  (Senator Collings)  this afternoon- what the "new order" was to be. I shall quote words uttered in New. York by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  in order to enlighten the honorable senator.  Mr. Menzies  said; - 
There will never he in our lifetime extreme riches and poverty. Whatever the outcomeof the war the world, as we know it, has gone for ever, and the new world will be very unlike . the last.. 
Some two years ago, before the war commenced, I. read in this chamber a statement under the caption "Warning! Europe." It was a complete statement of the European situation. I believe that warcould have been averted at that time, had the people known, who were to be the greatest beneficiaries from it. I quote the Prime Minister of Great Britain in the following terms-: - 
Our aims will he to build a society in which, there will be wealth and culture, but one in. which wealth shall not prey upon the common weal, nor culture degenerate into class and pride. 

 Mr. Bevin is reported to have made the following statement :  - 
Unemployment has been, the devil which has driven the masses in large areas of the world to turn to dictators. The greatest social implications rising out of this war, to achieve which every one must he willing to place their all on the altars, is the efforts to get rid of that horrible queue line-up outside the labour exchanges.I am afraid that unless at the endofthis war we solve this problem we may well slip into the most revolutionary action - though I do not mind revolutions if they are well directed. What I am horrified at is a blind revolution of starving men that isundirected and that ends in disaster for the whole community. 
Hermann Bergmann, one of the most noted of German writers, has said that, had it notbeen for the deliberate debasement of the German mark - not- inflation, assome persons say: - which reduced' the German people to poverty and despair, there would have been no room for a man like Hitler to attain to power, and this dreadful war would have been 'averted. I said two years ago that the existing monetary system had brought the world to poverty and chaos, and was rapidly heading us into a war which would destroy our civilization. Unfortunately, that proved to be quite true. I was induced to make that remark by the following prophecy, which I read in 1929- 
There will probably come well withinthe lives of the present generation a period at which the blind forces of destruction will appear to be in the ascendant . . . but it is difficult to believe that the whole, world is so bereft of sanity that a pause for reflection is too much to hope for, pending a final resignation to utter catastrophe! 
While I was in Sydney, two years ago, I saw a wreath placed on the Cenotaph in Martin-place. It bore a large card with the inscription "Because you would not think, we had to die ". Those words are taken from a poem written during the lastwar. Because there has been no constructive thinking since, millions more will have to die. There is no doubt whatever in my mind , that there is a power which can sway governments to its will. I believe that there is no such thing as democracy. We were told by the great Abraham Lincoln that "Democracy is government of the people, by the people, for the people ". It is not logical to contend that the people,' who are said to govern, get whattheywant. Do the people want wars?' They do not; yet we have them. Dothey want poverty, malnutrition, slums? No; yet we have all of those dreadful things, proving conclusively that. we have not democracy as we visualizeit, and that, the people are not governing: George Bernard Shaw was once asked to define political economy, or the art of government; and he said: "Political economy is the art of spendingthe national income in such a way as will bring happiness and prosperity to the greatest number of people." No State in theCommonwealth much less the Commonwealth itself is working, on the true lines of political economy,. because undoubtedly the greatest good goes to the smallest number; and that is what all the trouble is about today. The LondonTimes published the. following :  - 
Much harm has been done to our cause, both in Europe andoverseas, by the insinuation that we stand for the old order, and that our only aimisto restore the  status quo  in Europe and to maintain it at' home. 
The liberals in the Church of England in GreatBritain, led by the Archbishop of York, with 23 supporting bishops - including top-ranking-. London and Durham - 14 deans, and some 2.00 churchmen, made history at a notable conference. They gave a lead to the British Government to plan for the new order, and without a dissenting voice adopted a resolution presented by the Archbishop himself, one of the chief planks of which read - 
Christian doctrine must insist that production exists for consumption . . . 
Many years ago, it was stated that the only thing,which justified production was consumption. That is axiomatic, but we find that, while we have the greatest production system ever known, we have poverty inthe midst of plenty. Anything which is physically possible is financially possible, but out efforts are stultified by the foolish monetary system: which afflicts the world. The statement continues - 
The monetary system must be so administered that what the community can produce is made available tothe members of the community, the satisfaction of human needs being accepted as the only true end of production. 
Recently a committee was appointed to consider social questions, but there is no chance of improving the social conditions of anybody so long as the present monetary system obtains. That is the system which is responsible for all our economic difficulties, for poverty and for the existence of slums, and this is so because the banks can say at, any time how much money there shall be in existence. They have had this power for a long time, ever since 1694. That is the cause of all our economic distress to-day. We are told that if certain things are done they will lead to inflation. That is a meaningless expression. The word should never be used except in conjunction with two other words, " of prices ". We have a Prices Commissioner at the present time. I do not say that his efforts are wholly successful, but he is making some attempt to fix prices. When money is brought into existence by the banks it tends to increase prices; when the banks withdraw money from circulation prices decline. The banks can restrict credit and call up overdrafts, and thus reduce the Volume of money in circulation. So longastheyareabletoexercisethis power, there is no hope of improvement.  His  HolinessthelatePopePiusXI., statedinoneofhisencyclicals:  - 
Inourdaysnotwealthaloneisaccumulated,butimmensepoweranddespotic economicdominationareconcentratedinthe handsoffewwho,forthemostpart,are nottheowners,butonlythetrusteesand directorsofinvestedfunds,whichtheyad- ministerattheirowngoodpleasure.This dominationismostpowerfullyexercisedby thosewho,becausetheyholdthecontrolof moneyalsogovernthecreditanddetermine itsallotment,forthatreasonsupplying,so tospeakthelifebloodtotheentireeconomic bodyandgraspingintheirhands,asitwere, theverysoulofproduction,sothatnoone can breathe against their will. 
Lastyear, our war budget was £100.000,000 ;  this yearwe have been told thatitwill be £250,000,000. The taxationimposedinthat £100,000,000 budget was' three times' asgreat as in any previous year. How areweever going to pay the taxation onthe £250,000,000. budget if the Government continues to raise money through the private- banks ? When the first £20,000,000 loan bill was before Parliament, we were told that the money was to be raised through the agency of the Commonwealth Bank, assisted by the private banks, but it has now been made clear that the whole amount was raised through the private banks. When I asked in this chamber how much had been raised through the 
Commonwealth Bank, the Treasurer refused to tell me. Honorable senators were given to understand that they were not entitled to this information, but the manager of the Bank of New South Wales,  Mr. Gillespie,  in telling his shareholders of the patriotic efforts of that institution, said that the whole of the £20,000,000 for the first war loan had been subscribed through private banks. It is well known to those who take the trouble to find out that when the loan was subscribed no money was transferred from the banks to the Commonwealth Treasury. All the Government got was the right to draw cheques on the private banks for the various rams which they subscribed. The banks do not lend money. It is fundamental that banks are instituted for the purpose of creating credit. When the war savings certificates scheme was first introduced, the banks were confronted with a difficulty, because it was laid down that no one person could own certificates to a greater value than £250. Then the banks went into the matter and persuaded their employees to become, patriotic, and subscribe' for the purchase of warsavings certificates: It might be more accurate to say that theydemanded that their employeesshoulddoso.Thebanks stopped the cashout of their em- ployees' wages, : and atthe end of a certainperiod sent,a cheque to the Treasury for that amount. I know a woman in Hobart whose two children only recently started work. This boy and girl had for a considerable time been walking1½ miles to their work and back again sothat they could subscribethe amount representedby their tram fares for the purchase of warsavings certificates. When the banks sell war savings certificates over the counter, the notes or cheques tendered in payment do not reach the Commonwealth Treasury. Not on your life! That money goes into the bank's cash reserves, and a cheque for the total amount received weekly or monthly, as the case may be, is sent to the Commonwealth Treasury. A bank which sells £100,000 of certificates in this way can then lend the Government £1,000,000, because the bank is authorized to lend up to ten times the amount of its cash reserve. I honour the people who are lending their money to the Government by subscribing for war savings certificates-, but that is what happens to it: As a- matter of fact, wars . are not fought on cash, but on- credits. The difference between taxation and credit is this: Taxes must be paid in cash out of earnings or savings, whereas; credits are created. The last war is not paid- for yet. It would- have been, much better if the Government had: devoted the energy which was- expended, upon the raising ofthe last war. loan, upon the production of essential war equipment. Recently, I heard a professor of- economics, a most conservative man, state that the first 'task of the . Government is notto. raise money to fight' the war ; it should be to- get machines- and war materials. Until', the Government grasps that fact, it willcontinue to waste time. Several days ago I received a note from the Treasurer stating that it was- intended to withdraw permis- . sion. to erect buildings of a smaller value than £5,000, except in special circumstances. That will affect thousands of workers, and inflict great hardship. What sort of a mad system is this under which the Government goes on taxing the -people when it can get the money it needs in the form of credit from the Commonwealth Bank? Many years ago, Abraham Lincoln, the great liberator, said - 
The monetary needs- of an increasing number of people advancing toward higher standards of living can and should be met by the government. 
Such needs canbe- served by the issue of national currency and credit- through the operation of a national banking system - government has the power . to regulate . the. currency and credit of the nation. 
The government should create, issue and circulate all the currency and credit needed to satisfy the spendingpower of the government and the buying-powerof consumers. 
The taxpayer will be saved immense sums in interest, discounts and exchanges. 
The financing of all public enterprises.- the  maintenance of stable government and ordered progress, and the conduct of the Treasury will become matters of practical administration. 
Money will cease to be master and become the servant of humanity.. Democracy will rise superior to the money -power. 
Lincoln's work was not in vain, and the knowledge of' money, and what it should do and could do, is growing at a great pace, and there is hope for humanity, notwithstanding the chaos. In the House of Representatives- of the United States of America- on the 6th January. 1941,  Mr. Voorhis,  of California, introduced, a bill dealing with the money question the first clause of which reads - 
A bill to provide for national defence without incurring public debt': to reduce the federal -deficit; to lighten the burden of debt-; and to improve the domestic economy.  &amp;c., &amp;c. 
The measure was referred to the Committee on Ways- and Means-. It is evident', therefore, that I am not standing alone; In the last few years,, the people havebeen educated. The first State inAustralia to grasp the significance of this was South Australia, in which there is a United Australia party Government. By eighteen votes to thirteen, the Parliament of South Australia- passed- a- resolution to petition the 'Governor-General- that the Commonwealth Bank be used to issue interest-free credit for the prosecution of the war, and to assist primary-productions. At my request, the Treasurer of Tasmania,  Mr. Dwyer  Gray, placed, a similar motion on. the notice-paper, of- the Tasmanian Parliament, and it- was duly carried. Similar' action was taken later, in Western Australia; and: then, in Queens? land, and recently the Premier of Victoria,  Mr. Dunstan,  was told by the Victorian Country party, -which keeps him in office, that he should have a similar resolution passed, through, the Parliament of that State. Ihave an appointment- with Mr; McKell; the Premier of New South Wales, and I believe that I- shall be able to persuade him to put a similar measure through the Parliament of New South Wales. Then all the States- will be unanimous in demanding this reform. Public meetings are being held all over the country to discuss it, and the matter has been taken up by some of the most important newspapers. Recently,  Mr. H.  J. Kelleher, a director of the Bank- of New Zealand, said - 
If the British Empire was to escape the burden of crushing interest payments after the war, it must immediately replace its privately-created finance by State issues. State-created money would be interest-free. To fight a war with privately-created money is to light two enemies, one outside our country and one within. The second is the enemy of perpetual national debt which we have never defeated: 
What is the secret of Hitler's, " financial miracle " ? Here further' shocks await  us. We find a reversal of our customary rules' and practices. We are buying our financial ammunition from our enemy. . The enemies of this country, and indeed . of every country, are the private banks. They have never created any wealth, but- according to an official report, which was issued a few years ago the.)': held mortgages over the wheat lands of Australia amounting to £161.000,000. Before the war, the' wool-growers' of Australia were so burdened with overdraft and interest costs ' that' they were about to ask the Commonwealth Government for a grant of Id. per lb. on wool. At that time, they owed £175,000,000. How can any country make progress under such a financial system? We must get down to fundamentals. It is axiomatic that there is no effect without a cause. In other words, there is a cause for every effect. How can a nation of a little over 7,000,000 people meet an indebtedness of £1,400,000,000? That is. the position confronting Australia to-day. We are told that, before long Australia's war expenditure will amount to £20,000,000 a month. Does the Government" think that that amount can be obtained from the people by means of taxes? The only three ways by which money can be provided ,are first, by means of taxes; secondly, by borrowing from the private banks, and thirdly, by using the credit of the nation through the medium of. the Commonwealth Bank. I advocate the third, method. When a bill to provide for the acquisition of the apple and pear crop involving a possible expenditure of £750.000 was before this chamber I asked the then Treasurer if the Commonwealth Bank charged interest to the Government. The Treasurer did not reply to me at the time, .but, later, he said that the banks charged the Government interest at the rate of 3¾ per cent. I then asked whether that money did not go back to the Government in the form of hank profit? Of course, it did; and therefore I ark "why charge yourself interest on your own investment"? If I borrow £1 from myself on Mon,lav. what is the use of paying back 22s. 6d. on the following pay day? Yet that is what the Government is doing, and. will continue to do so long as it is dominated by the private banks. 
In the orthodox way of raising credits for. war purposes or public works, the Commonwealth Government sets out to raise a loan. Who subscribed to that loan? When  Mr. Casey  was Commonwealth Treasurer, the Commonwealth attempted to float a loan of £9,000,000, but only £4,850,000 had been subscribed when the loan was closed. Subsequently, I asked how much money was subscribed through the Commonwealth Bank, and how much through the private banks, and I was informed that £3,750,000 had been subscribed through the private banks. We are paying interest on that money to-day. I have mentioned in this chamber before that the annual interest bill on the first war loan of £20,000,000 amounts to over £600,000 per annum. Why do we pay that money? It is inexplicable that the Government should continue to plunge the nation into debt year after year, thereby necessitating the imposition of heavy  taxes which the people find difficulty in providing. In order to meet demands made on them to provide interest, on borrowed money, the people are forced to deny themselves food, clothing and shelter. I emphasize that that is done in order to meet the exorbitant demands of the banks which do not lend money. That is a fundamental of banking - that they do not lend money. I have had experience of that in my own business.  Mr. W.  G. Hawtrey, exsecretary of the British Treasury, writing in the  Encyclopaedia Britannica  said that banks are institutions for the creation of credit, which they create out of nothing. No man can have his views printed in the  Encyclopaedia Britannica  unless he is an acknowledged authority on the subject of which he writes. I suggest that the Government should do the sensible and honourable thing in carrying out its war effort, and not allow that effort to be hampered by want of money, or credit. 'We have become accustomed to speaking of money, whereas the fact is that, except in a limited way, we do not use money at all. The latest, statement issued by the Commonwealth Bank in connexion with the note issue states that the private banks together hold notes to the value of only £15,000,030. The rest of their money consists of silver and copper. It does not follow that that money belongs to the banks- because the money, in every account in credit belongs to a  customer,  not to the bank. Yet the banks have been able to buy, by means- of cheques, war bonds and treasury-bills to the value of  £67,000,000.  Although I have said these things over and. over again, and notwithstanding the high standing of authorities- whom I have cited my words must have fallen on deaf ears, because no changehas taken place. I shall, conclude by reminding the Leader of the Senate that I am still willing to show the Government how to fight the war with interest-free money.  [Quorum formed.] 
During, the last twelve months we have listened, to speeches by various' Ministers in this Parliament; broadcasts by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and others as well as statements  in newspapers advocating an all-in war effort: I take it that this Supply Bill' has been introduced in order to finance, for- a. time, what the Government would like to have us believe is an all-in war effort. I believe that honorable senators- on both sides of' the chamber really desire' an all-in war effort in this country, but if that is to be obtained', the Government itself must give a lead to the people. It may be that the Government is-doing its- best  tobring  about that result; if so, I hope to show that its effort to that end can be improved: An all-in war effort would- involve the marshalling of the whole of our resources of man-power- and materials. It would embrace every resource at our. disposal and leave no one out. In order, to bring about that state of- affairs,, sacrifices will have to- be made; and therefore it is essential that action- be- taken to make those sacrifices as-nearly- equalas possible.  Senator Brand'  gave some reasons- why more recruits arc not coming forward. I shall give other reasons.One reason is that' the sacrifices demanded of the people are not equal. The Royal-' Australian Air Force is- urgently in- need of recruits, and therefore I submit that every encouragement should be given to men to enlist in that branch of our fighting forces. . A- young man who desires to join the Royal Australian Air Force is told that all of- his- expenses incurred in travelling to the nearest examination centre will be paid. It is true that he is provided with a railway pass, and expenses to cover one meal, but should he have to travel any considerable distance in. order to be examined, it may be necessary for him to be absent from home overnight, in which event he must pay for his own accommodation and meet other expenses which are necessarily incurred.  His  expenses are not paid until he has- been accepted. If rejected, he would ofcourse, have his return railway ticket. 
In my opinion, boys who are keen to serve their country are not treated fairly. It has been the policy of' the Government to send books to every young fellow who enlists- in the Royal Australian Air Force, in order to fit him to pass certain examinations- before he is accepted; Many of' these boys are working; in fairly heavy jobs which impose a heavy strain- upon them both physically and mentally. After a hard day's work, the- strain of studying, in order to pass these examinations- may have a- detrimentaleffect upon their health, especially their eyesight. I know of some young fellows- who, because of their keenness, have strained their eyesight studying at night, whilst others have suffered nervous breakdowns. 
Yes, after they have passed the preliminary examination. Should they suffer a nervous breakdown, they would be discharged after several months of hard work- and study. It would be far better to accept these boys on their enlistment and give to them a couple of months' additional training on full pay, rather than run the risk of injuringtheir health:. 
I come now to the Army. In the Militia Forces we already have conscription of man-power. Although the young men who- are compelled to enter military camps have (constant employment up to the time they go into training; many of them have no jobs when they come out of camp. Ihave in mind the case of a young man who enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force: After he had been passed in Hobart he returned to his employment in his- home town for a week or two, but  when his employer discovered that he would probably be losing the services of this man within six months he engaged another man. Every week eases of this kind come under notice. When complaints about the loss of job3 through absence in camp are made to officers in the Defence Forces, one of the first questions asked is. "Have you tried to enlist in the Australian Imperial Force?" If the men have done that, and have been rejected, their officers may endeavour to have them reinstated in their former employment, but I do not know whether they would try to help lads who had not offered themselves for service overseas. Unfair treatment of this kind does not encourage young men to enlist. I support remarks by honorable senators who have said that the members of some of the recruiting staffs are not quite fitted for that work. We are told that about 1,500  men  are lined up in a militia training camp, and an officer invites those who desire to enlist in the Australian Imperial Force to step forward. When recruits were not as numerous as one officer would like, he was heard to say: " Those of you who are not prepared to step out and join the Australian Imperial- Force to defend this country are nothing but curs, and your fathers and other relatives before you were nothing but curs ". That is the kind of statement made by recruiting officers in front of militiamen. 
The remedy sought by one lad was to ask what authority the officer had for that statement, but he received fourteen days' detention and lost a couple of stripes. Very few recruits were obtained as the result of that particular line-up. 
When adjustments of the basic wage are made, in consequence of increases of the cost of living, the increase should be passed on to members of the fighting forces as well as to employees. in industry. The dependants of a  soldier  cannot live any more cheaply than the family of a man employed in a munition factory. If the members of the Militia were called upon to fight they would do so, and, if necessary, they would sacrifice their lives on the field of battle. Since we compel mcn to serve in the defence of Australia, and, if necessary, to pay the supreme sacrifice, it would be equally fair to apply compulsion. to the wealthy, and call upon them to provide the money required to enable the soldiers to be paid and equipped with the necessary armaments and munitions. There is no equality of sacrifice if one man has to go into the firing line, and perhaps give his life, whilst another is permitted to enjoy great wealth and luxury, and is not required by law to make any sacrifice. Therefore, the wealthy should lend their money to the Government free of interest for the duration of the war, in order to finance the war effort. If they are not prepared to do that voluntarily, compulsion should be applied. It would be quite as fair to do that as to compel the wage-earners to fight or go into the munition factories. That would be far more equitable than pleading to children to give their pennies for the purchase of war savings certificates. I do not object to compulsion, provided that it is applied to all sections of the community without fear or favour, with the object of obtaining a maximum war effort. The whole of the resources of the nation should be pooled. If the Government sincerely desires an all-in war effort it will have to marshal the national resources of money, materials and manpower. 
I shall agree to the elimination of nonessential industries if the Government will start at the top. Finance is needed to enable us to utilize our materials and manpower, and I claim that, in pursuance of the policy of eliminating non-essential activities, the Government should reduce the number of trading banks. In most country towns there are six to eight banks, where one would be sufficient. The number in the capital cities is much greater. I shall wholeheartedly support the Government's proposal to restrict nonessential industries if it will undertake to deal with the banks first. Most of the employees of the private banks could be more profitably employed in other directions. If the whole of the wealth of the private banks were concentrated in one bank, the Government would be in a far better position to assess the amount of credit it could issue. At present, it is absolutely impossible to get an accurate estimate of the total credit resources of  the hanks. An all-in -war effort affects practically- every industry in Australia, including the primary industries. Recently, a threatening circularwas distributed amongst the farmers of Tasmania by the  Deputy  Prices- Commissioner,  Mr. Johnson,  regarding- the fixation of. the price- of- hay. As honorable senators know, primary producers do not always get good- years-; but this- year, owing to- adverse seasonal conditions; the hay crop- has been very poor. In the circular, the  Deputy  Prices. Commissioner states- that-he has been advised- that- many farmers in Tasmania are holding big stacks' of hay on their farms waiting for the price to rise.  His  advisers supplied him with a list of names of farmers who, they said, were withholding their hay from the- market. Two or three of those whose names appear in' the list as holding 20: tons of. hay are, in fact; not holding even- a ton of hay on their farms. That proves that the information supplied to the  Deputy  Prices Commissioner was inaccurate. What right has the  Deputy  Prices Commissioner to fix in only one State the price of a rural commodity which is produced in practically every State in the Commonwealth? 
I am referring to the Commonwealth  Deputy  Prices Commissioner in. Tasmania,  Mr. Johnson.  If he has no authority to fix the price of a rural commodity- in only one State, why has he issued a threatening circular? 
That if farmers persist in holding their hay, he will fix the price of hay in Tasmania at a maximum.of £5 a- ton and -will not permit this year's crop to be sold at more than £5 a ton. He contends that £5 a- ton is . far above the cost of production and that the fixed price may be considerably less. In stating that hay can be produced this year: for- £3 a ton, the Deputy' Prices Commissioner shows that he does not know the -first thing about his job. As the result, of- adverse weather conditions this year,. many- farmers have cut as little as a half, a ton of hay an acre, and- if the price of hay be fixed even at £5 a ton, they will- not make anything out of it. For  a  number of' years, hay- has brought a remarkably low price. During the lasttwo years- there has-been a heavy fall of the prices of primary products; Victorian farmers- have been selling hay for as low as £1 a ton. - In view of the fact that the crop in Tasmania- this- year is- exceedingly poor, I am at a loss to- understand why the Deputy Prices Commissioner should threaten the farmers- in this way. 
The circular was issued by Mr.Johnson, the  Deputy  Prices Commissioner of Tasmania, who is responsible to' the Minister for Trade and Customs-  (Mr. Harrison). 
That is so. and he is- administering regulations that come under the control of this Parliament. 
He received his directions from the Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland. Although I . have made a. number of representations to that official regarding- the fixation of the price of various commodities, I have never appealedto State. Ministers because Price Commissioners are controlled by a Commonwealth Minister. The explanation may be that, the Prices Commissioner obtains advice from a committee which is approved' by a State government; but that is merely co-ordinating- assistance. ' In the opinion of Professor Copland and the  Deputy  Commissioner, Mr: Johnson, those bodies function in a. small advisory capacity for the purpose of helping the Prices Commissioner, who is authorized to' accept: or reject their proposals, according to his own judgment. 
To obtain an all-in war effort, the Government must not discriminate against any particular section of the community. It. must not permit the Prices Commissioner to use his power in order to fix prices which discriminate against a State. Tasmanian farmers would not object to the fixation of a reasonable maximum price for hay, provided the 
Prices Commissioner also fixed a minimum price to cover the cost of production, and allow a fair margin of profit. In my opinion, maximum and minimum prices should be fixed for all commodities. Although the Commissioner fixed a maximum price for potatoes last season, he declared no minimum price, with the result that farmers received no protection when values fell to a level below the cost of production. A similar experience is almost bound to occur with hay. I protest against the fixation of a price of a commodity, unless the Commissioner is not prepared to be fair in all respects; and I strongly object to this circular, which threatens farmers if they do not comply with the order. 
Yesterday, the Senate passed legislation to increase the number of Ministers of State. I wholeheartedly supported the measure in the hope that the increased numbers would relieve senior Ministers of some of their heavy duties, enabling them to pay more attention to the activities of the numerous boards and committees under their control. Whenever a new project is undertaken, the Government creates a board to administer it. More administrative responsibility should be given to the elected representatives of the people in this Parliament. Whilst I do not contend that every board and committee could be abolished, many of them could be dispensed with if members of Parliament did their job. They could carry on much of the work that is now performed by boards and committees. The services of private members on the government side of the chamber could be availed of to a much greater extent than is now the practice in' order to assist in administration. They were not elected to. Parliament simply for the purpose of selecting men who wear the old school tie to do the job for them. But it has occurred in many instances in the selection of members for boards and for fighting services. If my suggestion were adopted, private members could examine the activities of various boards, and their inquiries would obviate the necessity to appoint select committees. Many of the private members on the government side, of the chamber possess- the ability to perform such a task. Their  investigations would be not only of real service to the country but also save a good deal of wasteful expenditure. If Ministers had been given the advantage of .such assistance from private members, the appointment of a committee to inquire into the operations of the Apple and Pear Board would have been unnecessary, and I should not have been obliged to appeal to the Senate to appoint a committee to examine matters concerning the growing and processing of flax. If a private member were clothed with sufficient authority, he would have no difficulty in ascertaining whether a board was performing its functions properly and he could report to the responsible Minister any flaws in its administration. That such appointments are urgently required can be demonstrated by one illustration. Although hundreds of tons of apples have been destroyed, supplies of this fruit are scarce in Sydney, and apples are selling at 6d. each. If a private member had been empowered to inquire into the distribution and sale of apples and of pears, this anomalous position might never have arisen. 
That makes the position even worse. We also find that shortages of supplies of apples occur in the different capital cities from time to time. I again appeal to the Government to make greater use of the assistance which private members can give in checking up the activities of these various boards along the lines I have indicated. That is one means by which it can convince the people that it is genuinely desirous of an all-in war effort. 

 Senator fraser (Western Australia) [10.31]. - I listened attentively to the remarks of  Senator Brand.  The explanation of the lag in recruiting which that honorable senator failed to provide, was, 1 think, given by  Senator Amour;  and the latter's remarks should be seriously considered by the Government. When the recruiting campaign was recently intensified in Western Australia, I heard several people speak unfavorably of the officer who is in charge of that campaign throughout the Commonwealth. I cannot understand why the Government retains the services of such a man in that capacity. , 
I agree with the honorable senator; but many of the present leaders of the German army also were very gallant soldiers in the last war. 1 believe in the old saying that a leopard cannot change its spots: Despite- the fact that- General Lloyd is a gallant' soldier, as' stated -.by. the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett),  I am -of opinion that a more suitable officer can be found to direct recruiting activities. 
 I am pleased that  Senator Brand  raised the subject of soldiers' pay. He remarked that the soldiers had no union. I remind him' that but for the' action- taken by the Labour party in this Parliament the soldiers' rate of pay would not have been increased. Not-only in Victoria but also in the other States; public appeals are being- made on behalf of the destitute wivesand families of men who are fighting overseas. That state of affairs must be remedied immediately, if only to remove one of the greatest obstacles to the success ' of ' the present recruiting campa ign. _ 
I was very surprised to hear another honorable senator opposite criticize the poor response of Commonwealth public servants who are eligible to enlist in any of the services. This Government has given an undertaking that conscription  will not be introduced ; and I hope that it will never apply conscription by backdoor methods. The Government must not. take action along the lines suggested by the honorable senator. I do not know whether the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  is aware of many of the practices being . indulged in in this respect. We Have not yet reached the stage when we must get recruits by fair means or by foul. Instances have occurred, however, in which youths, who are under compulsory military age, have been more or less coerced into enlisting into the Australian Imperial Forces. When such, instances were brought to the notice of the Minister for the Army, he gave an assurance thathe would investigate the position and take, steps to put a stop to such practices. On that point I am rather surprised -that action has not' been taken to curtail the activities of some recruiting officers who have become notorious for the tone of their public addresses from the recruiting platform. I take thefollowing extract from the report ofa speech of a recruiting officer publishedin the Adelaide  News  of the 23rd June, last :  - 
-- They did not have sufficient mechanized vehicles or support from the air. 
In spite of all explanations of and apologies for our failure in Greece and Crete, I contend that . everything that ought to have been done to assist our troops was not- done. That fact is apparent from the statements made by the British officer who returned from Crete to Britain in order to give to' the British Government a review of the campaign. It is all right to say that the mistakes that marred our operations in Greece and Crete will not be repeated, but other mistakes may be made. Iam sorry to learn that Australian troops are sent intobattle merely to fill a gap. 
This Government is not. doing all that ought to be done in . order to prosecute- the war efficiently. After nearly two years of warfare only now has a site been selected for the building of a small arms factory in Western Australia. If it takes as long to build that factory as it did to build the military hospital in Western Australia, the war will, be over before it is finished. Whatever the outcome of the war may be, it isessential that the factory fee built with all haste. The construction of the hospital was delayed:, because unnecessary time was occupied in drawing plans and in the selection of the site. In fact, there was a battle over the. hospital site, and I was victorious. 
I did not select a site, but I- did object to . the site originally chosen by the Government, because it was surrounded by the Karra- katta cemetery, the Claremont asylum, a sewage farm- and a dogs' home. That would- have been the site of, the hospital to-day had the 'Commonwealth had its way,, because, when I took a hand in the mattery the land had been purchased, and all that was required, was an agreement with the State Government. The Minister and' I battled the matter out in the press for a couple of days. 
Yes, after the Government ' had decided that the site chosen was not the best available. I pay tribute to the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)'  who had the whole matter reviewed', and,, but for whose intervention, a hospital, costing, only £40,000 or £50,000 as against the £150,000 structure now in existence, would have been erected. 
I do not ignore what the Minister did, but I do' say that had it not been for the Minister for the Interior taking notice of my representations, the military hospital in Western Australia would have ' been incapable of rendering the service which is expected of a military hospital. After consulting with a number of medical practitioners of high standing inWestern Australia,. I decided to make representations to the 'Government with the object of having a small swimming pool provided in the hospital grounds. As the Government proposes to placebefore us in the near future a bill dealing with physical fitness, it might have been expected that these representations would have received favorable consideration, but that wasnot the case. I made my representations to  Senator Foll,  as Minister for the' Interior; thinking that he would be able- to give a decision on the subject; but I found that the matter had to be referred to the Minister for the Army (Mr: Spender). My letter to the Minister, for- the Interior read as follows - 30th May, 1941. 
My dear Minister, 
I understand that the Military Hospital inWestern Australia will be completed at an early date and in view of that I desire to place before you a request for some additional facilities for the patients who may 'be inmates of the hospital for long or short periods. 
After consultation. with. -prominent medical authorities,in Western Australia,I have come totheconclusion that an indoor -swimming pool would be of . great advantage to the patients- and' would greatly facilitate 'their recovery. In' addition, to the' medical- opinion offered, I am informed that many of the latest  types of public hospitals have installed small indoor pools which are used for treatment in certain cases. ' . "-...  - It is not necessary formeto go into the benefits that . would be derived fromthis innovation. I would, rather, leave that to a more competent authority than myself,' . but . the representations that I am making are founded on the best and highest -medical authorities I have consulted . with, and on their opinion.I am makingthese representations. 
I hope thereforethat this will receive the f avorable consideration and decision ' of the Government. 
On the 21st JuneI received the -following communication from the Minister for the Army : - 
Dear  Senator, Fraser, 
With reference- to your letter dated 30th May, . 1941,-' addressed to  Senator' the Hon.  H. S. Foll, and referred by him to this Department, regarding additional, facilities at the new MilitaryHospital, Perth, I desire to inform you that the matterhas been discussed with , the . Medical Directorate, Army Headquarters. There is among medical authorities  generally, some doubt as. to the necessity of a swimming pool, and recent, investigations abroad by officers of my department definitely indicate that, where hydrotherapy . is deemed essential, excellent results for. adults are being obtained by a specially designed single bath unit. Accordingly in the Physiotherapy De- partments of all new Military Hospitals in Australia' the single unit method is 'being installed. 
In view of this information it has hot been considered desirable to install an indoor swimming pool in the new hospital. 
Seeing that the military authorities who selected' the original site for the military hospital in Western Australia found it necessary subsequently to alter their minds, I hope that they will also be prevailed upon to alter their views in connexion with the proposal for a swimming pool at the hospital. I am quite certain that honorable senators, generally, will agree that . the men who return to Australia from the war -should be provided with every possible comfort, in order to facilitate their recovery. I am also certain that a swimming pool would contribute to that end. I hope that the last word has not been said on that subject. The physical condition of many of the men who will come back to Australia will prevent them frombathing on our surfing beaches: For that reason also I trust  that however ' satisfactory the single-bath unitmay be in general hospitals, we shall at least have- a swimming pool in our 'military hospital. I request that this proposal be reconsidered. 
I wish now to- refer to' petrol 'rationing, although the direct issue, in this instance,  'is price control. I have received from the secretary of a country . roads board in Western Australia- a letter,- dated the 29th May, which reads as follows:- 
Dear  Sir, 
I enclose herewith copy of a letter which  I  am forwarding to the Price Fixing Commissioner by instruction, of my board, and would appreciate any assistance you may be able to give with regard to theprice of the petrol consumed by this board. 
To my board it seems difficult tounderstand what relationship the semi-Government rates and the amount of petrol allowed under the consumers' licenses- when fixing theprice has to dowith the petrol restrictions.' 
Any assistance you may be able to give to have the concessions in price renewed will be appreciated by my board. 
The letter for warded by the roads board to the Prices Commissioner read as follows :  - 
Dear  Sir, 

 Re Price of Petrol. 
 My board is in receipt of a communication  from the Shell Company of Australia Limited advising as follows: - " In the past you have enjoyed semigovernment rates when purchasing motor spirit, this rate being l1/2d. per gallon off list rate including pump rebate. 
 We now regret to inform you that we cannot continue to allow this special rate, and from the 21st March, 1341, the price of motor spirit to you, delivered in the metropolitan free delivery area, will be 2s. 3d. per gallon in drums or bulk, or 2s. 2d. per gallon bulk provided you hold a consumer's licence from the Liquid Fuel Control Board for 250 gallons per month or more. 
 The adjustment has been made necessary by a recent ruling given by the Price Fixing Commissioner at 'Canberra. Simultaneously with the increase in price of motor spirit by 1d. per gallon on the 2.1st March the Commissioner instructed that . all special rebates being allowed must be discontinued." 
And I am instructed to make a strong protest against the said action, firstlybecause my board in common with other local authorities have conscientiously curtailed their petrol consumption in accordance, with the wish of the Commonwealth Government, . which action does not appear to offer any justification for removing local governing authorities from the semi-government rates and further the placing of the smaller authorities whose consumer's licence from the Liquid Fuel Control Board is less than' 250 gallons per month' on a higher rate than those authorities having consumers' licences for over 250 . gallons per month. ' 
Thepricetothisboard at present is not as may be supposed 2s. 3d. per gallon but 2s. 61/2d. per gallon being an impost for freight, which is of course out of proportion to the actual cost of conveyance 107 miles from Perth- to Moora byrail. 
My board trust -that you may review your decision to remove them from the benefits of semi-government rates and also . remove the special disability due to our lower consumer's allowance. 
The responsibilities of country local authorities are just as great if not greater than the more favourably situated local authorities and my board are unable to appreciate the reason for differential treatment. 
I ask leave- to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned; 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I take this opportunity to inform honorable senators of the personnel of the several newly appointed standing committees of the Parliament: The details are as follows: - 

<graphic href="167332194106265_32_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="167332194106265_32_1.jpg"></graphic>

Earlier to-day  Senator Cunningham  asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice -  1-. Has the site of the proposed munition factory in the State of Western Australia been decided upon? 
If so,- where is the site,- andfrom whom was- the land purchased-, and at what price ? 
When- will construction work- be started'? 
The- Minister for Munitions, has now furnished the following information: - 
Yes. 
Welshpool. Unoccupied land, owned by numerous- people. Approximate values, assessed by Western Australian Government, £10 to £20 per acre according to site (135 acres involved?)'. 
What steps are being taken- to -provide an alternative- relay- station for: the north' and northwestof Tasmania? 2. Until: such services are provided will: the* Postmaster-General 'havea continuous ' programme provided -by station 7NT? 
The Minister for Munitions- has now furnished 'the' following information 
Owing to economic -considerations- arising.' out of the war it has. not been . possible', to. complete, the' plan.of regional' broadcasting, stations.' -Until,' therefore; all' areas in  theCommon  wealth have, been 'adequately ' served,consideration cannot be givento the provisions of alternative stations outside . the capital, cities. It is pointed out, however, that a . large; portion of the northern area of Tasmania is fairly well served by the Melbourne stations 3I0 and 3AR, from which alternative programmes are given. 
A programme is provided by station7NT from6.30 a.m. to 11.35 p.m. continuously except for a break from 8.15 a.m. to 1.0 a.m. on week days. This break, which unfortunately cannot be obviated, is necessary to enable essential maintenance work to be performed. 
To-day  Senator. E.  B. Johnston asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that many primary producers whose holdings are situated distances of up to 25 miles from the nearest railway station have no means of transport other than a motor utility truck or an old car? 
Will special consideration be given to such persons, in regard to petrol rationing? 
Will such persons -be allowed a reasonable amount of petrol,, even if supplies have to be; denied to city residentswhohavetrams,trains andomnibusesattheirservice? 
Ihavebeenfurnishedwiththefollow- ing - answers - 
Yes. 
Yes, in: genuinecases . State LiquidFuel: Control Boards are already acting insuch', cases. 
'Applications' shouldbemadetotheState LiquidFuelControlBoards,andcaseswillbe considered ontheirmerits. 
. -The Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has stated that the Government has appointed certain standing and parliamentary committees'. Indoing so, it has not acted in an entirely democratic way, in that it has assumed the right to appoint the chairmen of these committees. "Would it not have been wiserto. have allowed the committees' to elect their own chairmen? I. say nothing against those who have been appointed, as chairmen, but I believe that the mak ingoftheappointmentbyeachcom- mitteewouldhavebeenmoreinhar- monywiththespiritofco-operation betweentheGovernmentandtheLabour party.Idonotconsiderthatthechair- manship of everycommitteeshouldbe occupied, . by either- aGovernment - or a Labour member; but there shouldbe no suspicion -that theGovernment, desires to havethe -principal voice on all the committees", -and- that, itdiscountsthecooperation of the. Labour party.Itrust thattheLeaderoftheSenatewillseefit to ask the Prime Minister to -reconsider this matter. 
I have asked in the Senate a- question dealing with internees, for the purpose of combating rumours which I regard as highly injurious and prejudicial to the best interests of this country, particularly with respect- to its war effort. Recently I asked this . question - 
How many internees have been released by the Internee Courts of Appeal appointed for that -purpose in Australia? 
I received the following reply: - 
I regret that I am not in a position to furnish this information, as it is not in the national interest that it should be disclosed. 
It is rumoured that quite a number of internees are being releasedby the appeal tribunals. I am not in the position to -say whether 'or not those rumours are true, but I fail toseehowitcouldadversely affectthenationalinteresttodisclosethe information ' sought. If -the -rumours are not denied by. the Government,' they will' gainin strength-,- particularly since- the' . matterhasreceivedsomepublicity.The impressionwillgetabroadthatthose internees: who are possessed of funds, and: who are therefore able to brief counsel' to: ' assist them',, are able 'to obtain- their release, while' others less 'fortunately situated . remainin internment. The Government is asking the. people to make even, greater efforts to assist in the prosecution of the war, but the circulation of rumoursof this kind will not encourage the people to respond. The Government has nothing to lose by being perfectly frank. The public knowthat these tribunals have been established, and that appeals are being heard every day. They believe that some of the internees are being released, so there is no reason why they should not  be told how many. The Government is, by its silence, doing much to injure its own cause,. especially when the impression gets abroad that persons of enemy origin, who areunfriendly to Australia, are' being permitted- to go 'free. 
Senator,ARMSTRONG (New South Wales) [11.15].- I support the remarks of  Senator Amour  regarding the chairmen of the recently, appointed parliamentary standing committees. It seems to me that the Government . is trying to placate certain members of the House of Representatives. What qualifications does the honorable member'  for Henty  (Mr. Coles)  possess for the position of  chairman  of the Man-power, and Resources Survey Committee ? Possibly the Government is trying to induce him to take the first,, or second or third step towards becoming a member of the United Australia party. The Opposition is seeking to co-operate with the  Government  as far as possible, and it regards the Man-power, and Resources Survey Committee as one of the most, important of all, but the appointment of the honorable member for Henty as  chairman,  when he has had no previous  experience of the work, and is not even a member of an accredited . party in the. Parliament, willlead to fraction. I may mention alsothe appointment of the honorable member for Adelaide  (Mr. Stacey)  as  chairman  of one of the committees. It was common knowledge that he was disappointed because he' was not- made the Government Whip- in the House of Representatives, sothe Government is possibly seeking' to placate him by giving- him this appointment. I am. sure that the work of the committees will suffer as a result of the action taken by the Government. I hope, that it is not too late for the: Government to reconsider its decision. It should allow the: members of the. committee's' to meet and' appoint their own chairmen. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  to the method used by the military authorities in selecting camp sites in New South Wales. The; citizens of many towns, which possess' local advantages and prior claims, cannot understand why those towns have been passed over. One such town from, which complaints have been many and. con tinuous- is Young, represented: in this Parliament by the Postmaster-General'  (Mr. Collins).  Military officers visited the town, and" afterwards stated' that it did. not. possess the. necessary facilities- to justify placing a camp in that vicinity.' They did not introduce1 themselves to- the local authorities; they visited the town, and nobody knew how long they stayed. or what they- did. Afterwards they made their report. They did' not state in what' way the town- was unsuitable, and the. people of Young regard ' the action taken as very unsatisfactory, particularly as at Cowra, only 27 milesaway, a military camp, to which a mechanized section is attached, has been established, besides an internees' camp for the accommodation of many thousands of persons. Naturally, there is much jealousy between towns when one is given an abundance of Government favours, whilst others starve. Those townswhich are neglected are losing- their population, and enlistments are falling off. 'Some towns are given toomuch, while others, such as Young, although possessing many natural, advantages, receive nothing. I should like the Minister for Supply and Development to bring my remarks before the Minister for the Army, with the request that the military authorities should again visit Young and consult with the Mayor, Aldermen and Councillors on this, matter.  Their neglect to do so in the first instance has causedmuch local indignation, with the result that many protest meetings have been held. I am confident that if' the course which I advocate were adopted, ' much of this dissatisfaction would disappear. 
SenatorLECKIE (Victoria- Minister for Aircraft Production) [11.21].- This morning  Senator Aylett  asked the following question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs :  - 
Can- the Deputy Prices Commissioner in Tasmania fix the price of hay in Tasmania, if  the price of hay is not fixed in other States?' 
If so, would that not be discriminating, against Tasmanian farmers and against the. State of Tasmania? 
I now inform the honorable senator that the Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answers :  - 
Hay is not a declared commodity and while the Deputy Prices' Commissioner in Tasmania has no legal authority to fix. prices he has intervened to prevent prices rising to too higha level. A similar supervision is being exercised in other States. 
See answer to No. 1. 
AmI to understand from the reply of the Minister  (Senator Leckie)  that the  Deputy  Prices Commissioners in the various States have intervened simultaneously to fix the price of hay throughout Australia, or is this an isolated case applying only to Tasmania? The Minister's reply indicates that these commissioners are under the control of this Parliament: ' I" take it that 
Professor Copland was appointed under theNational Security Act  as  Prices Commissioner for Australia,  and  that he has delegated certain  powers  to  deputy  com- missioners in the several States. If that be not correct, I desire to know under whose control are Professor Copland and his  deputy  commissioners. -  Senator LECKIE  (Victoria- Minister for Aircraft Production-) [11.22). -  by leave  - If thehonorable senator  will  look again' at the answer to his  first  question,  he will sec that it  states  that hay is not a declared commodity. Therefore, the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner has no legal authority to enforce any price in respect of hay. His intervention is an indication to' the people concerned that should the price of this commoditybe raised beyond  what  is considered reasonable, hay may become a declared commodity, in'  which event  the Prices Commissioner would  have  full power to fix its price. 
.-I shall see that-  Senator Armstrong's  remarks are brought to the notice of the Minister for the -Army  (Mr. Spender). 
 in reply  - I  shall  bring the remarks  of  other honorable senators to the notice  of  the appropriate Ministers. 
Question resolved in  the  affirmative. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
With reference to the agreement for the sale of the Australian wool clip to Great Britain, and to the provision that Australia shall receive one-half of the profits from the resale of such wool - 
Can the Minister state what amount is available as Australia's proportion of such profits to date? 
When will such moneys be distributed tothe wool-growers ? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer:  - 
The amount of money payable to the Commonwealth Government out of profits made on the sale of wool for use outside the United Kingdom under the arrangement with the United Kingdom Government cannot be determined until the scheme is wound up at the conclusion of hostilities. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
If the Minister finds it necessary to override regulations under the Fair Rents Act in order to take possession of property for post office purposes, will the tenant who has to give up the property be entitled to compensation, especially if he should bo a cripple, and it takes away his only means of livelihood? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer : - 
This is a hypothetical question which it is difficult to answer. If the honorable senator will give details of any specific case which he has in mind an endeavour will be made to secure information in regard to the matter. 
Last night when I obtained leave to continue my remarks I was referring to petrol prices. I now quote the following extract from a letter dated the 17th June that I have received from the secretary of the Moora Road Board: - 
Dear  Sir, 

 Re Petrol Prices. 
Your favour of the4th June received, and also a communication from the Secretary of the Commonwealth Price Commissioner's Branch, which states - " The introduction of the cartel method of trading as a matter of government policy has eliminated that excessive competition and has enabled the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner to introduce a standardized petrol price structure which contains the following maximum prices for consumers in Perth: - 

<graphic href="167332194106276_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

Prices to country consumers are Perth prices plus the existing freight differentials. 
The removal of existing concessions did not confer any benefits on the oil companies as the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner had the matter thoroughly investigated and took into consideration the aggregate amount of those concessions which was introduced into the averaging calculations and thereby used to offset portion of the increased landed costs." 
Although my Board appreciates the need for economy and are certainly practising it we are still unable to understand why the difference in price to industrial pumps of under 250 gallons per month and against those over. 
I hope that the Government will give me an indication as to the reason for this  action, and take into consideration the protest made by the Moora Road Board. 
 I understand that a body was recently set up known as the Transport Coordination Committee, the personnel of which includes, I presume, the military officer mentioned yesterday by  Senator Amour.  In view of the great distance which separates Western Australia from the eastern States, this geographical disability is a very real one. Unfortunately, when committees are appointed by the Commonwealth Government, it invariably fails to include representatives of Western Australia. 
I know that that State is represented onbodies connected with the primary industries, but I have othercommittees in" mind. Western. Australia shouldhave a representative on theLiquidFuel Control Board. ' - ' - 
Yes. I also urge the Government to give serious consideration to theappointment ofa WesternAustralianto the. TransportCo-ordination' Committee. 

Some- time- agoI asked -whether the Minister ' for 'the Army(Mr. S pender ) andthe" Ministerfor Air  (Mr. McEwen)  would give ' serious 'consideration to fittingthe' "motor, carsused "permanently for transport in connexion with' their respective 'departments with producergas units.' Up to the presentI have not had a reply to my question. There is a military camp about 60 miles from Perth, and the stores required in connexion with it are transported to a central depot at Karrakatta. The goods are now carried by road, and I suggest that the vehicles used for this purpose should be provided with producer-gas units if the cartage cannot be done by rail. The Government should not delay in taking action in this matter. I brought it before the Senate months ago, and I have yet to learn how many of these units have been installed by the Army and Air 
Departments. If the Government would give serious consideration to the appointment of a representative of Western Australia on the Transport Co-ordination Committee,valuable information in regard to this matter could probably be furnished to -the Liquid Fuel Control Board. 
A few days ago I mentioned that young' lads -are unable to join the . Royal Australian . Navy if they, have'.been found guilty of a. misdemeanour. Although an. applicantis not given the reason for his non-acceptance, "it is well known to me that in a dozen- or more cases the applicants were rejected, not after the medical examination or the educational test hadbeen made, but immediately- their applications had been submitted. The Perth  Daily News  of the 16th instant published an advertisement which read - 
No. I know of officers in the Australian Imperial Force to-day whose record would not stand close investigation. That, of course, was the responsibility of the military authorities when the men enlisted. In a communication that I sent to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  nearly, twelve months ago, I said that, as a member of the Senate, I did not . stand for every Tom, Dick, and Harry with criminal records being accepted for service. The military authorities must accept responsibility for the promotion to commissioned rank of any men whose records are not without blemish. The cases that I have mentioned are entirely different. I hope that an investigation will be made, and that the Senate and the public will bc assured that the " old school tie " is put on one side, and that the son of the working man is given an equal opportunity with the son of the rich man. 
I hope that the Minister gives me that assurance. . 
The widest scope exists »for the inauguration of a new order. Let us see that that is brought about. As  Senator Cameron  has pointed out, a country cannot be built up on the dole system, if ' in war-time millions of pounds be raised and expended. 
I congratulate  Senator Collett  upon having been raised to full Cabinet rank. Now that he has sole ministerial responsibility for the administration of the Repatriation Act, I hope that he will administer it according to the spirit and not the letter, and will display a certain degree of sympathy. If it be not  sufficiently  elastic, I trust  that he will see that amendments are made. 
I do not subscribe to the statement made last night by  Senator Amour.  The Minister for 
Repatriation has clone a lot .for returned soldiers, and I hope that when he reaches the end of his term of office, he will still have the confidence of those who seek to be covered by the provisions of the act. 
.- This bill offers to honorable senators an opportunity to air whatever grievances they may have, and the Government cannot complain if their views are expressed in no uncertain' terms. 
I propose to deal broadly with two or three matters which may be of interest to the Senate, and I trust that my observations will prove of ' assistance to the Government. I do not intend to range into- the more nebulous regions of the new order, about which we have heard so much, and which nobody understands. So far as I have been able to ascertain from' exhaustive reading, the only concrete expression which has been made concerning it fell from the lips of  Mr. Herbert  Morrison, who said that " Every fellow should have an equal opportunity ". To only one new order has practical effect been given. It is a new order that we do not like, and one that we are resisting. It is the order of blood, of force, and of slavery. Our first duty to this country is to endeavour to rid the world 'of that curse, that menace to our freedom as a people. In the words of Tennyson - 
The old order  changeth,  yielding place to new. 
And God fulfils Himself in many ways. 
Whilst we deplore that we may not have reached in our standards those heights to which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has referred, we should, nevertheless, look around us to see how best we can hold the standards that we have, after the present struggle in Europe has terminated. I commend to my friends on both sides of the Senate the study of - those interesting' addresses which, from time to time, are delivered at the Harris Institute in the United States of America. There, they are endeavouring to search into the causes of nearly all wars, and particularly the present war, and have come to conclusions which,' in some degree, shake one's faith in certain fiscal views which one has held very closely, and upon which this country has been working for many years. 
I deplore the speech which was made last night by  Senator Amour  in an attack upon individual officers. Surely that sort of address will not assist in the recruitment of men who are so greatly needed in certain branches of our forces ! If what the honorable senator has said be true, surely representations should be made to the Minister for the Army ! If they are not true, they should not be bruited abroad in a public assembly, such as this.  Senator Amour  has himself seen active service, during which he bore the brunt of a very difficult campaign, and should be the last openly to charge various officers, about whom I know nothing whatever, with any impropriety. Surely that is not conducive to assisting the war effort of the Government, particularly with respect to recruitment for the Australian Imperial Force ! I put it-to the honorable senator, that in his wiser moments he. should think of the effect caused by such statements by a responsible representative of public opinion in New South Wales. 
The Leader of the Opposition touched last night on the fact that this Senate is somewhat ignored by the House of Representatives. It appears to me that there is a growing" inclination in that direction, and that it rests with the Senate to assert itself. In some degree, it is doing so to-day. Why should we not have the opportunity, on occasions of this sort, to voice our views regarding matters of more or less importance - of great importance in the opinion of some persons, and perhaps, of minor importance in the opinion of others? This is the opportunity and we should take it to the full. If the gentlemen in the House of Representatives are permitted to. debate a bill at great length, the Government should be prepared to allow this chamber equal opportunity to consider, it thoroughly. There should be no discussion of the merits of the bill now before us; its object is merely to provide for a continuance of expenditure on the -same scale as that set out in a bill which we passed a few months ago. It is for us to decide how much time we need in order to discuss it, and how much time we should have to ventilate all our grievances. 
I do not think that it would have very much opportunity - to do so if it so desired. Nevertheless, I am glad of the Minister's assurance. 
With reference to the matter referred to by  Senator Fraser  this morning, if the honorable senator's statements are true" - and I have no doubt that they are - there appears to be some laxity in naval recruiting. I understand that it has been customary in the past to make inquiries regarding the life history and health of candidates for the navy in order to save expense should they subsequently prove unsuitable. When young men are rejected they are perhaps merely told so in polite language without any reason being given. I do not suggest for a moment that that was so in the case cited. If that policy is not still being pursued it seems to me that the authorities are adopting a very casual way of declining a young gentleman's application. 
I should like to know if there is a sufficient provision of parachutes for our young men who take their lives in their hands day by day, flying in the air and performing all sorts of extraordinary evolutions which terrify one of more sober years when looking from the ground. Among the young men of the Royal Air Force and of the Royal Australian Air Force, there are many whose lives have  been saved by the use of parachutes. Wc often hear of their planes being wrecked but that the pilots are safe. Too often in this country we hear of the loss, not only of the plane, but also of its personnel. In the interests of our flying men, who are perhaps the most courageous of our youths - and their number is great - we should dp everything in our power to give them as good a chance as we can. 
Oan the Minister assure me that every pilot to-day is supplied with a parachute? 
I am glad to hear that. Rumours to the contrary are current and it is well that they should be scotched at once. I raise this matter because it was suggested to me within, the precincts of this building as late as last night that that was not the case.. I am glad to hear that the position is as the Minister has indicated. 
Some suggestion has been made for the curtailment of production in this country. As I see it, two features' of this subject emerge from the higher' reaches of Government policy. The first is that there is to be a licensing of wheat production in this country, and the second is that there is te be a curtailment of supplies or increase of the price of superphosphate which contributes to the production of foodstuffs. I say to the Government in all sincerity that this country which is tolerably safe from" invasion, tolerably immune from  destruc-tion  owes a duty to civilization to provide the wherewithal to save the lives of those in Europe to-day who are inevitably threatened with, famine. Let us look at the position in Europe at the moment. Charging down on what may be regarded as the granary of Europe, the Ukraine, with its new methods of cultivation, and with its thousands upon.  thousands  of acres of collective farms engaged in the production of wheat and other grain, with the harvest almost ripening, is the vast German war machine. It used to trouble me when I thought that this country might be invaded, of what would happen in the heat of a summer day if the invader were to drop incendiary bombs in our midst. What is to happen to the Ukraine? However successful the Russians may be, it is inevitable that in the Ukraine thousands upon thousands of acres of the food of hungry Europe will be destroyed. If, unhappily, our Russian allies are not able to withstand the onslaught of the Germans, I venture to think that their psychology is such - and they have proved it to be so in the past - that they will destroy what they cannot take away with them, and Europe will be in famine. 
Yes ; the Russians will do again what they did in Napoleonic clays sooner than see their country at the mercy, of the foe. We should pray for Russia's success. In the interests of humanity, of famine-stricken Europe, and of our own people, I ask the Government to proceed carefully and to stay its hand before it commits itself to a policy of reducing the production of foodstuffs. To my mind such a policy is wrong in the sight of God-, -and if we adopt it we shall display less foresight than the Pharaohs of old. In a time like .this, with suffering millions in China, with Japan short of food, even if it be to our detriment we should produce a superabundance of foodstuffs in the interests of humanity generally. Whatever difficulties there may be in regard to finance or production, whatever difficulties the farmers may be facing "to-day, we must see it through. Heaven help us if we fail. How shall we appear in the eyes of mankind if we proceed with a foolish policy of curtailing the production of foodstuffs ? 
The next matter to which I propose to refer will, ' I am sure, interest the Minister for Information  (Senator Foll)-.  I have been surprised and troubled at the apparent lack of; knowledge of the average man in the street as "to what Nazi-ism stands for, what it would mean to him if we had such a form of control in this country,, in the British Isles, or the dominions of Canada or South Africa. Those who are closer to it across the seas understand a good deal more about it. Here we have plenty of enthusiasm against Hitlerism and Nazi-ism, but our enthusiasm is not  displayed by the man in the street. A little while ago I suggested to the Australian Broadcasting Commission that excerpts from a book, written by a very eminent man should be broadcast to the people of this country, so that they may have some appreciation of what Nazi domination means. Although the suggestion was well received it declined to broadcast any excerpts from the book, because its author had been sent out here to enjoy a period of rest in one of our internment camps. That decision was, to my mind, foolish. Here is a man who has escaped from the tyranny of Nazi-isan. He writes of it in all its crudeness and barbarity; he exposed individual instances of it which' would make an ordinary human being' shiver. He has endured the terrors of the concentration camps; He has been bruised, beaten and battered, until little of life remains in him. Because he belonged to that nation with which we are at war, he was sent out to this, country to be interned. Why not .use a book which provides some of the best propaganda against our enemies that has ever been written? Another book to which I refer is entitled  A Mother  Fights  Hitler.  I commend it to every honorable senator. The author is the mother of a member of the profession to which I' have  ''the'  honour to belong, and because her. son. had' effectively crossexamined, the tyrant' Hitler, 'he was bounded ' and ' barbarously treated. He leaned a little to the" left, it- is true. He may' have communist tendencies for all I know ; but 'he never joined' the Communist party. ' He- was- successful in the courts as an advocate. ' The German tyrants pursued him until, broken in health, he escaped by suicide. HU treatment was barbarous.  His  mother wrote th is his-tory  of the greatest cruelties perpetrated by a nation of sadists and by its demented leader, I cannot understand how we can sit here and call for recruits,  and preach the glory of our own system and the fight in which we are engaged, when our people do not really know what it would mean if we were conquered by this European monster. We have available to us an abundance of literature, not stuff written simply to sell, but the outpourings of people's hearts and minds, written solely with the object of letting the world know what is really happening in Germany. I again urge the Minister to put over the air propaganda- along these lines, and it should be presented in such a way that will enable the people to understand what domination by the countries we are now fighting would really mean. Such propaganda would unite our people to a greater degree .than anything else, because this literature tells vividly of the cruelties of barbarism and sadism against which the British nature revolts. I was so much concerned about this matter that I took it up personally with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies).  I hope, therefore, that something will be done along the lines I have suggested. The authenticity of this literature can be readily verified. 
I do not suggest that we should put anything over the air merely to catch the people; we must tell' them the truth as vouched for by the highest authorities. 
It is not hard to understand bow "those people might have been genuinely deceived. Germany has painted a picture of great things for the world .when, at the same time, .it ' had- murder in its heart.. In view of the deception that Germany has practised -against every country that has had- dealings with it, I am not surprised that certain people have 'come back thinking that all is : well in that country. To-day, peace overtures- are being made; but whereas we would have listened to such overtures' a few years ago in the hope that something could be done in the interests of peace, we know now what the German system really stands for. It is useless to indulge in recriminations. We must face the' position. I have no doubt that the men to whom the honorable senator refers were deceived, and honestly deceived, about Germany. Indeed, some of our own statesmen in Europe' were similarly deceived. "We realize now the corruption that has been rampant throughout Europe for the last ten years. Let us state the facts to the people, and tell them the bare truth. .We need to do nothing else. Some of those facts are revolting, but they will agitate the minds of our people, and stir them to fight, as they are going to fight, for a fair deal for all peoples. I venture to think that we in Australia can play no small part in assisting in the dethronement of those responsible for this foulness in Europe. 
I wish to refer briefly to what I consider to be a slight slowing down of our war effort.  Senator Fraser  touched upon one' aspect of that matter this . morning, when he dealt with restrictions of the use of petrol. I shall not repeat what I have said so often on- this matter. Our  defence services, particularly the navy and the air force, are dependent upon petrol. I wish to assist the Government in every way possible in this matter, seeing that we cannot keep our waters inviolate from attack, and prevent the sinking of tankers. I want to assist it in every way I can, in order to keep the wheels of industry going, because if the wheels of transport are slowed down our war effort must slacken, lt is not going to be easy for the Government to do what I believe it sincerely intends to do in order to build up sufficient supplies of petrol to enable the Air Force and Navy to meet all eventualities. No doubt, as  Senator' Fraser  has indicated, many little economies could be effected. However, we- can hardly criticize Ministers because two or three trucks arrive at Spencerstreet station, or at any other station, to pick  up packages which .could be handled by one truck-. That is the fault not of any Minister, but of some official who should look after the co-ordination of transport and see that economy is exercised in such instances. Admittedly, it is a little disconcerting when we see big motor vehicles moving down our streets and roads with nothing aboard. One often wonders what it is all about. 

 Senator A. J. MciACHLAN. Instructions may be given, but the trouble is to see that they are carried out. I was surprised several days ago when a motor vehicle owned by the .Electricity Commission in Victoria, which by the way is doing an excellent job, called out to my home which is situated 13 miles out of Melbourne. The ' use of such a vehicle seemed unnecessary. The road boards are also guilty of waste of petrol. We see huge motor trolleys hauling timber from forests in Victoria for distances of from 30 to CO miles. The Government must insist upon the greatest possible use of alternative fuels in order to conserve supplies of petrol for our defence services. I know of one industry which has installed producer-gas units on all of its heavy trucks. Surely trucks used in the haulage of timber lend themselves to the use of producer-gas, particularly when they work in forests in which some of the best charcoal in Australia is readily obtainable.' Such people should be compelled to install producer-gas units on their trucks and lorries. I also suggest that the Government  should again examine the possibility of replacing internal combustion engines on. lorries and trucks with engines driven by steam. Quite recently the Dunlop-Perdriau Company announced in the Melbourne press that it had received from England blue prints of the mechanism necessary to convert internal combustion engines of motor vehicles to steam-driven engines. Possibly, because of the intensity « of its war effort, the Government itself cannot establish workshops  for that purpose, but at least it should encourage private industry to concentrate on that matter even if such action should involve considerable expenditure. I repeat that if our transport is slowed down our war effort will slacken. There are also great possibilities in the use of the electric car. Most honorable senators know that in order to conserve petrol 'in Germany, the butcher, baker, milkman and medical practitioner in. Berlin and other big  cities  in that country, use that means of transport for their daily rounds. Germany cannot afford to waste petrol, and it has, therefore, encouraged a greater use of the electric car. Similar means of transport have been adopted to. some degree in . London, particularly in delivery services. Such 'an innovation should not present very great difficulty in a State like Tasmania, for instance, which has available the cheapest electric power in the world. I believe that electric batteries for the propulsion of the ordinary motor vehicle will give, a mileage up to 80 at one charging, and that they can be re-charged overnight on an ordinary power plug. Several days ago I was told by an engineer  that  the cost of electricity for running a car for 200 miles is le. I do not profess to be an expert in these matters. My main concern is that if we permit any slowing down ' of transport Ave shall do incalculable harm to our war effort and economic life generally. Several other means of propulsion for ordinary vehicles are also available. I have no doubt that  they have been brought to the notice of the Government. J have been surprised  at Germany's success in the use of various means to overcome its increasing shortage of petrol. Perhaps, that country is now nearing the end of its petrol resources. 
No. But Germany produces a certain quantity of petrol from coal by the hydrogenation process. I understand that the Royal Air Force has recently blown up one of the biggest of those works in Germany. We know, of course, the havoc which a direct hit on such works would cause. The  theory of hydrogenation is the- reversal of the process of nature, by supplying pressure backwards, as it were. Consequently, any weakness in stresses is bound to cause trouble. We are getting a trickle of petrol- from Newnes, for which we are very grateful ; but supplies from that source are not sufficient. When I was in the Ministry, the Government gave a number of concessions to large and small companies operating in the Pacific islands near to Australia, and from time to time reports have indicated that good results are being obtained by means of geophysical examinations and boring. The Government should be  firm and say to these people now " What is your position?" I have no doubt that in the face of the present oil shortage, the  major oil companies are doing their utmost to locate new supplies, and I notice also that something is being done at the alleged deposits in Gippsland, but I think it is important that steps should be taken to ascertain what progress the licensees have made in their search for oil in the far more likely regions to the north-east of Australia. 
I conclude by assuring the Government that- the views which I have expressed have been advanced in a spirit of helpfulness. I feel, as the Leader of the Opposition- does, that it is our duty to be helpful in such a time as this. I may be wrong in some of the views that I have expressed, and I may have a mistaken impression of the policy being pursued in the higher reaches of production, but there are indications abroad that an effort is being made to restrict production. I conclude on that note. It would be fatal to this country and to civilization if we. failed to assist humanity in ,its time of need. 
I am sure that most honorable senators will agree with the .remarks of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan. I agree with . him entirely on the subject of propaganda. My view is that propaganda is something more than mere information. If we are to approach the people, then we should do so in the best manner possible in order to make them understand completely the danger that this country is in.' Mere information is not sufficient. We have  a  Department of Information, but it has failed in many directions. Probably the people concerned have done their best according to their lights, but money has been spent lavishly on huge advertisements in the press, which, in my opinion, are not worth a snap of the fingers. No doubt the advertisements have been written by well-meaning men, but from the  point  of view of an effective appeal to the people, the money might just as well have been poured down the. sink. It would have been interesting indeed to know just what amount of money has been expended on those useless advertisements. It would also be interesting, especially to honorable senators, on this side of the chamber, to know what charge is made for photographs supplied to the press by the Department of Information. Does the press pay anything for those pictures, or does the department pay the press to have them published ? 
As I see the position to-day, our main trouble arises from the fact that all the business of this war is conducted on a capitalist financial basis: That vitiates our war effort. Those engaged in war work are looking for profits and commissions. Of course, that is understandable in view of the fact that the Government is composed of men who have passed a lifetime under the capitalist system. I say frankly that the great conflict in which we are now engaged is a struggle, but between, two totalitarian- systems. It; is a struggle between Fascist totalitarianism, and Socialist totalitarianism. We shall never beat Hitler's Nazi totalitarianism by the application of antiquated financial methods. This Government is failing, not because it lacks heart, morality or high integrity, but because it adheres to out-of-date ideas and conceptions, which do not allow it to make the best of its opportunities. In regard to propaganda and the dissemination of information generally, I point out that the main essential is not merely the provision of money, but a conviction that our. cause is right. An appeal must be made to the people not merely in order that the men engaged in making that appeal may have an opportunity -to earn commissions, but because we feel in our minds that we are right, and we want the people to believe us. What is a mere statement of figures made by some person over the air? Such statements do not influence the people at all. Only a few days ago, two men attempted to make a. recruiting appeal at a "Melbourne football ground. In the noise and hubbub, they could not be heard, and the money paid to them was merely wasted. If those conducting our recruiting campaigns go to football grounds and are- .unable to speak to the people as they think that they should be spoken to, why waste money in that- direction? It is worse than useless. In fact, it is anti-recruiting, when things are done which are not in the best interest of the Australian nation. What we need is a Minister of Propaganda, who understands the art of propaganda, because, after all, it is an art. If the people are to be addressed, they must be spoken to in the way that will give the best results. When I make a speech, except in my more facetious moments, my object is always to get the best results. I endeavour to present my views in such a way that they will carry conviction. A man can carry conviction only if he knows in his heart that he is right, and that he is not working merely for a few paltry pounds. I do not believe in the form of propaganda indulged in by  Dr. Goebbels,  although, undoubtedly, he is one of the greatest propagandists in the world to-day. But he has abused propaganda until - it has " become one of the worst evils in the history of mankind.  Dr. Goebbels  contends that  the truth and righteousness do not matter; the end alone is what he considers, and he will . sink to any vile depth to achieve that end. I agree with  Senator A.  J. Mclachlan that the people should' know the whole truth. Why should we hide the truth from them? We are merely practising political bulldozing. When dealing .with the  appointment, of additional Ministers, an ex-Minister said in the House of Representatives some days ago that when he was Minister for  the Navy, lie had only about one hour's work each day. Is he telling the truth in that regard i Was' a Minister being paid for doing only one hour's work a day? If the honorable member for Barker  (Mr. Archie  Cameron)  who made the statement is not telling the  truth, he should be pilloried before the people of this country; if he is telling the truth, then the Prime Minister, should admit that there is no realneed for additional Ministers. The same gentleman also said that, after he had been Postmaster-General for a few weeks, he was yelling. out for work to do.- Is that true? I do not know whether it is true or not, but I should like a Minister to tell.- me if it is. I have always said that I should not like  to be a Minister because of the arduous work that they have to do. I was under the impression that they had to work night and day, but now an ex-Minister,, who is now a member of the Army Intelligence Department, has indicated that I may be wrong. I do not think that the honorable gentleman would tell untruths, but such statements go out to the world in the form of propaganda against our war effort. What, can we say  to the  people ? When Colonel Holmes asks me to go on the platform to assist the recruiting campaign, what can I say to the people in view of the statement I have just quoted? 
 I have been in five departments, and I have never yet had that experience. 
It is an amazing statement to me. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes)  -Order! The honorablesenator i3 not in order in referring to amember of the House of Representatives in that manner. 
Order ! The honorable senator will not. be in order in referring to a debate which took place in the House of Representatives during the current session. Standing Order 416 is quite clear on that point. 
Yes. 
I now refer- to a matter associated with child endowment which has been of absorbing' interest to members of Parliament and to thousands of workei'3. Recently I asked in this chamber whether it was a fact that it was mathematically impossible to draw money, on account of any child up to the . age of sixteen. The Minister answered me in his own way, but he has admitted that he did not . know whether that was so or not. Many members of Parliament are wondering whether I was right or wrong. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Collings), Senator Courtice,,  the honorable member for Kennedy  (Mr. Riordan)  and others, considered  that I was wrong, so I thought that I must be wrong ; .but, in order to be sure about the matter, I rang up the department, which, after due cogitation, stated that I was right. The press did not publish my  question, but on the next day I read in the press of Queensland a statement to the effect that the Government was about to liberalize the child endowment scheme. The report, which appeared in the press on the -29th May, was as follows : - 
Important provisions to  liberalize  the child endowment scheme are being evolved by the Federal Department of Social Services find will be submitted for acceptance to the Cabinet in a few weeks. 
The Cabinet will be recommended to amend the Child  Endowment  Act  ftp provide ,that the. endowment payments should be made to every child of a family other than the first child, irrespective of the age of the first child until the eligible children reach the age of sixteen: 
Under existing legislation, endowment is payable only in respect of children, other than the first child, under sixteen. 
The effect of the amendment would be that endowment would bc paid on every child but the first -in a 'family until the second and all succeeding children reached the age of sixteen. 
At present the second child in a family receives- endowment only until the first is aged sixteen, and the endowment payments for the second child then ends. Because of this, it is impossible for any child, except in cases of families containing twins or triplets, to receive endowment payments -until it reaches the age of sixteen. In most cases no child aged more than fifteen, and in many cases much less than this, can bc eligible for endowment payments. 
The cost of the concession, which is now being compiled, is- believed to bo substantial and the acceptance by the Government of the recommendation -will depend on whether the extra cost can bo financed while heavy war commitments continue. 
I rang up the Minister for Social Services  (Sir Frederick Stewart),  who told me that the report was not correct. On the 30th May I wrote a letter to the depart- ment, but received -no reply for a week or two. On two occasions I made inquiries by telephone and was told that an answer would be sent to me by air mail, but no reply came. A month having elapsed, I made further inquiry yesterday, and was told that- my letter had "been lost. Then, after the lapse of an hour or so, I received the following communication from the Minister for Social Services: - My  dear  Senator, 
In reply to your inquiries concerning the Commonwealth Child Endowment Act. I wish to say that the present legislation provides that endowment shall be paid in respect of each child in excess of one under the ase of sixteen years, provided of course thu children ave being .maintained by the person claiming the endowment. 
It has been suggested  that the Act should be amended to provide, that once a child has been granted endowment that payment be conti lined until that child attains the- age of sixteen years. -This matter has been carefully considered by the Government but at present no alteration is contemplated for administrative purposes. It has been decided to exclude the youngest of the family in making calculations for endowment purposes. 
For a month, the people of Australia were led to believe that a certain method would be adopted. Members of Parliament, including Ministers, and the general public throughout' Australia-, thought that only the first child would be eliminated from the scheme, and that in respect of every subsequent child endowment would be paid until it reached the age of sixteen years. I am told on good authority that the Minister for Aircraft' Production  (Senator Leckie)  was under that impress sion, and that you,  Mr. President,  also thought that that was the position. Now, after a month's consideration, the Government has- decided that the youngest child shall not receive an endowment payment, but that endowment shall be paid in respect of every other child until it . reaches the age of sixteen years. It is also said' that the cost of the scheme will not be increased.' 
When the Minister for Labour . and National Service  (Mr. Holt)  was speak-, ing on the second -reading of the bill, he made it clear that the Government had decided that payment in respect of the first child was not warranted: He said - - The Government has. given a great deal of consideration to' the provision of endowment in respect of the first child. While-it 'approached the question sympathetically, . it has decided that payment in' respect -of the first child is not warranted. . . . The inclusion of first children in the benefit would raise the cost of the endowment in Australia by over SO per cent. 
The act provides that all children under sixteen years of age, except one, shall receive the endowment, and I agree that the Government is acting within the statute in doing what it has done. I could quote from the speeches delivered on this matter by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, by the Minister for Aircraft Production and others, who disparaged other endowment schemes because they fell short of that adopted by this Government, which excluded only the first child. The Minister for Labour and National  Service also said - 
Another libera] feature of tlie Government's proposals is the provision for endowment to continue until the age of sixteen years. 
My point is that I believe that the Government, some members of Parliament, and the general public thought that, when the Minister referred to the elimination of the first child only, and said" that the subsequent children would receive the endowment up to the age of sixteen years, he actually meant that: Let us suppose that a family consists of three children aged fifteen years, ten years and one year respectively. Under the changed scheme, the child aged fifteen years will receive endowment for one year and the child aged ten years will receive it for six years; the youngest will receive nothing. 
Let us take the second illustration, where the first child is eliminated. The second child becomes eleven years of age when the first is sixteen. It is then the first child under sixteen, and does not draw the endowment. The third child is now aged two years, and receives the endowment for five years, that is, until the child above it is sixteen. Altogether, the endowment is drawn for seven years. In the first case the two elder children are paid up to the sixteenth year, whereas in the second case endowment is paid in respect of one to the eleventh year, and in respect of the other to the seventh year, yet in both cases seven years' payments are made. Let us- now return: to ' the original conception of the scheme. Suppose we drop out the first child and pay the subsequent two children up to the age of sixteen years. The second child receives endowment for six years and the third for fifteen years, making a total of 21 years. There is a difference of fourteen years between the payments under the present scheme and under the plan which the public thought was to be implemented. The difference in payment for fourteen years at the rate of £13 a year amounts to £182. I do not know whether the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  or an officer of the department, was responsible. The Treasurer i3 a very clever handler of figures. On one occasion I described him as a *' figure fiend ". I did for him one of the greatest services, ever done by one parliamentarian for another; I was partly instrumental in keeping him out of the State Parliament in Queensland,  with the result that he subsequently became Acting Prime Minister. He sought election for the Mirani constituency, but the man elected was a protege of mine,' named Walsh,, who is now a Minister in that State. During the election campaign, in order to illustrate what could be achieved by juggling with figures, I told the story of the Jew and the Christian'. . - The Jew was the employer, and the Christian the employee. The employee was entitled to a- week's holiday a year. Because he had been working very hard, and his energies had become somewhat dissipated, he decided to ask for an additional week. He knocked on the door of his employer's room, and was invited to enter. When he did so, the Jew said to him: "What do you want? " He replied, " I should like a fortnight's holiday ". The J ew looked at him in astonishment, and said, "Sit down. Here is a pencil and paper. I want you to do a little calculating. You have already had a week's holiday? " He said, ". Yes ''. The Jew said, " Put that down ". He did so. The Jew then asked, " Do you work on Sundays ? ", and was told that he did not. He said, " That is 52 days ; put that down. Do you work on Saturday afternoons ? " The employee said " No, sir ". He was told that that was another 26. days, and to put that down. When the employee was asked. " Do you sleep ? " his reply was " Yes, I am a good sleeper ; I sleep eight hours a night." He was told to add 122 days to his other figures, and was then asked, " Do you play? " He replied, " Yes,- I have eight hours for recreation." " That is another 122 days," said the Jew. To further questions, he' admitted that he did not work on Christmas Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Foundation Day, Anzac Day, a-nd other public holidays. He was told to ' total the figures he had put down. Having done so, he found that the result was 372 days in a year. The J ew said to him, " You havenot been working at all, and you owe me a week's wages ". I speak in this- lighter vein in order to illustrate a point that I wish to make. There is. more in my. speech than merely humour. I used this against the present Treasurer with good effect. He would have become the Leader of the anti-Labour party in Queensland had he been elected to the State Parliament, but we defeated him. I am sure he must be -very thankful to us, because he is now in a very much better position, and doubtless is doing splendid work. My point is that, with the manipulation of figures, almost anything is possible. At one time, while I was in the! United States, of America, I listened to one of the best " turns " that I have ever heard. In a few minutes, a darkie proved by the use of figures that he was his own grandfather. I hope that honorable senators will pardon me for taking' such- a long time to reach my point. The Government claims that child, endowment is to be paid in respect of all children, with one exception, up to sixteen years of age, in every family. I am endeavouring to prove that the result of the application of its scheme will not bc what the country was led to believe It would be, and that, an a family of three, the difference will amount to £182.  Mr. Ben  Taylor, the father of nine children, eight of whom are. under sixteen yea.i'3 of age-, has shown in the excellent tables that have been published in  Hansard,  that his loss will be £132. I have brought this matter .up, because I considered that it was essential to have it ventilated. I should, like to hear what the Government has to say in reply. I told one departmental officer that I suspected that the youngest, child would bo left out of calculation, and lie replied "I think that you are right." No endowment will, be paid in respect of a child born on the 1st July next. At the rate of £13 a year, the total loss by the' parents for a period of sixteen years will be £208. Some effort will have to be made in the near future to give to the family of the worker full payment for every child up to the age of sixteen years. During the coming months the cost of living is bound to increase. The wages of the workers will have a lower purchasing value as the result of tax and compulsory savings measures adopted by the Government. We should, therefore, tlo our best for the family man. I urge the Government to dispense with mathematical legerdemain, and to provide that, in respect of every family, a payment of at least £13 a year will be made for each child, without exception. 
With the Leader of the Opposition  ('Senator Collings),  I voice an emphatic protest against the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable this bill to be passed through, all stages without delay.  Senator- A.  J. McLachlan has suggested that that is merely the usual practice, thus- implying that the .measure, does not need very much consideration. In my view, it is a very bad habit to cultivate. The circumstances are not usual. The bill has to be passed, of course, in order that the Government may be author--  i zed. to expend a certain amount on its undertakings and services. But every bill should be considered on its merits, and that is not possible in the present- instance in the time at our disposal. The bill may contain anomalies which need rectification; there may be duplications, or other features to which attention should be drawn. I graduated in a political school which takes for granted no more than it, is obliged to take. The Senate has cultivated the habit of taking everything for granted, and that is helping to bring it into disrepute. The people are justifiably asking " Why have a Senate if proper attention is not paid by it to the business of the nation?" Instead of having a three weeks' adjournment, we could have dealt during that period with many matters with which we are forced to deal now. Had they been dealt with earlier, possibly the position to-day would, have been better than it is. In asking for the suspension of the Standing Orders in order to enable the bill to be passed without delay, the Government asked for too much. I shall never agree to the adoption of such a course unless good reasons are advanced in proof of urgency. Several Ministers have too many irons in the fire; they are engaged in private business, and with them, politics is merely a parttime job.  They are thus prevented from giving to the affairs of the nation the attention that is necessary. That  i3  another reason for my objection to the haste now displayed. Particularly in times like the present, Ministers should devote the whole of their attention to the affairs of the nation. If that would involve what they consider an unjustifiable sacrifice in connexion with the businesses in which they are engaged, they should resign their ministerial positions and lot them bc held by others who can fulfil all requirements. I shall voice a protest on these lines whenever I consider it necessary to do so. . 
In September, 1939, the year 'in. which war was begun and the bill to tax the price of gold was under discussion in this Parliament, I §aid that, in-time; pf war, :a  nation should first mobilize its man -power and other resources. When I made that statement, I knew perfectly well that the position would not be viewed by others as I saw it. I knew perfectly well that man-power and resources would not be mobilized to the degree which they should have been, and as they ultimately will have to be. I knew that it would be a. case of necessity making and enforcing its own law. . That is exactly what has happened. As the exigencies of war became more acute, the tendency towards that mobilization has become strengthened, though not sufficiently, as I shall show, owing, primarily, to the policy of the Government. When I use the term mobilization of man-power and resources, I include in it national control of essential industries and services. 
It follows that, if we control the means by which the people live, we control the people. That is the very source of the power of all employers and governments. If they control the means by which the workers live, for all practical purposes they control their very lives. 
SenatorCAMERON.- Certainly not. 
Industrial conscription involves employees working in industry under conditions similar to those which operate in the military forces. Under industrial conscription, employers would have the right to work their employees seven days a week and overtime under any conditions, and the employees would have no right to resist or refuse. I assume from his interjection that the Minister for Aircraft Production himself believes in industrial conscription. 
The honorable senator's interjection, to my mind, suggests that the wish is the father of the thought. However, in spite of his disclaimer, I believe that industrial con scription is intended if this Government can possibly give effect to it, and I shall endeavour . to show that that is so as I develop my argument. In speaking of national control of essential industries and services, I should like to make a comparison with existing conditions. We see to-day that most industries and services are controlled by private owners with the result that duplication and multiplication of industries and services exist in every conceivable direction with consequent colossal wastage of man-power andmaterial resources. As a. matter of fact, it can be truly said that the enormous wastage under existing conditions constitutes the safety-valve of what we know as the capitalist system. If our economy were organized on the lines indicated by me it would mean, for example, as has been suggested during this debate, that in any country town, instead of having six different branches of six different banks requiring the services of six different staffs, there would be but one bank and one staff. What applies to banking applies also to insurance, grocers' shops, public houses, and all sorts of industries and services. Under co-ordinated control it would be possible to produce the maximum at the minimum cost in terms of man-power and material. Under the existing state of affairs 'a colossal wastage of man-power and material is going on all the time. In time of war, when we are forced to defend ourselves or submit, we have either to mobilize man-power and resources or be defeated. What is happening to-day? The Government is mobilizing man-power and materials practically under duress, almost to the degree that they can be driven by the inexorable law of necessity. The war sociologically, has a similar effect to an earthquake geographically. We have a state of society which is running along apparently quite all right in. the eyes of the orthodox, just as we have a geographical area in which also apparently everything is going on all right, when, suddenly, a convulsion takes place. As the earthquake smashes the earth's surface and may subsequently render barren country fertile, so does the war smash existing conditions, laws and customs,' and possibly result ina state of society .becoming better than it was previously. In this respect the only difference between wars and earthquakes is. that man has no control over earthquakes, but he has control over wars. I have said that the Government is mobilizing man-power and materials under duress. It has appointed more than 70 wartime authorities' and, quite recently, it has set up . a number of committees. Most, of those represented on these war-time authorities, particularly the most important ones, are either the direct representatives of the leading monopolies of this country or persons closely associated with them. They make recommendations to the Government to .do this or that in such a way that nothing is -done, if it can possibly bc helped, to conflict with their interests as controllers of private monopolies. That, in my "opinion, prompted the Prime Minister to say at tlie beginning of the war that the slogan of the country would bc, " Business as usual ". Now that the war has gone on for 22 months, we notice that the Prime Minister, in a recent speech, has been forced to say " We cannot go on as usual "-. The function of these committees is to inquire into and report to the Government on all those problems that have been aggravated by the war and which are exercising the minds of Ministers. The functions of the Man-power and Resources Survey Committee and other committees are to inquire into and report to tlie Government as to how we can use our man-power to the best advantage.  Then we have the Social Security Committee, whose task it is to advise the Government as to the best way in which to provide for the social security- of the people. The Government would rather appoint these war-time authorities and committees to go thoroughly and1 exhaustively into these things than get on with the job itself. The Government is not going along any faster or further than it can possibly help. As evidence of this I submit the utterances of it's Ministers, who are practically fighting a rearguard action- all along the line, avoiding, as far as it is possible to do so, any encroachment on the right of a few individuals to monopolize. the means by which . the nation lives. 
That is the policy which prompted the question put to me by the Minister for Aircraft Production regarding industrial conscription. The Government is thinking along these lines because man-power is becoming scarce, because industrial disputes and strikes are coming into being, and things generally are becoming much harder to manage than hitherto. Another proof that the Government's policy is one of refusing, as far as it possibly can, to bring in a system of national control of essential industries- and services, is the fact that, a little while after the commencement of the war, when it became necessary to provide military forces and war material, the Government gave contracts to private owners of essential industries and services rather than develop those industries and services as national utilities. So, wo have .the Abbco bread scandal, the spectacle of soldiers being supplied with short weight and- half-baked bread, made from inferior flour. So it- is also that we find certain profiteering, grafting, and corrupt practices being indulged in to the detriment of the soldiers of the nation. Had the Government done what it will ultimately be forced to do if the war lasts long enough, and said, at least for the duration of the war, that the factory of the Abbco. Bread Company Proprietary Limited would be taken over as a national utility, the supply of bread to the soldiers would have been a direct responsibility of the Government and not a matter for pro7 fi tearing shareholders, grafters and. others more concerned about private, profit than supplying the needs of the Army. The Government did not do that, and-, consequently, the nation has been put to the expense of the long inquiry which has been held. The company, I understand, is still operating under similar conditions. As the result of the inquiry certain persons may be punished ; but that is only dealing with the effect. Tlie cause remains, and the Government, apparently, does not intend to remove it. As with the factory of the Abbco Bread Company Proprietary Limited, so it is with boot, factories that supply shoddy boots, and also those iri Sydney responsible for robbing the Government of something like 4,000 lb. of meat, d'aily! Under private control we cannot ' effectively mobilize our national resources. During the last war the Fisher Government realized that fact, and so far as it possibly could gave effect to a policy of national ownership and control of essential industries and services. Consequently, splendid work was done during that war. Certainly, we did not then see so many scandals arising out of conditions peculiar to war, as has been the case on this occasion. Another result of the Government's reluctance, or refusal to give effect to a policy of national control is the lag in war-time production. Our needs of munitions, armaments and equipment are not being met as fast as they should be. Although the Prime Minister and other Ministers have said in general terms that something will be done, no specific statement has been made on behalf of the Government as to what it is going to do to overcome the lag in production. With other honorable senators and members of the House of Representatives, I visited the Maribyrnong munition works. In what is known as the key machine shop, which supplies tools for the whole of the works, I noticed a number of machines idle. When I asked the manager why those machines were not working, he replied that, they could not obtain the men. He  added that they had had men working them, but they had left in order to go into private employment. What does 'the Government propose- to do to remedy that position? 
The honorable senator opposed giving the Government power . to keep . skilled men iii that industry. 

 Senator Brown directed attention to the prices of commodities, and to the campaign that is being organized to encourage the people to eat more lamb and fruit, and more of all of the commodities mi at we produce. Here again the Government is remiss because, as the honorable senator said, whilst it is appealing to the people to increase their consumption of those commodities it fails to provide them with the wherewithal to purchase them. On the contrary, it is reducing the purchasing power of the masses. Lamb could be sold at the minimum price ' of, say, 3d. per lb. in order to enable the man on the basic wage, and those who work in return for the dole, to buy more of that commodity. That, however, would mean a loss to the producer; there is no doubt about that. "What should be done in those circumstances ? If the Government really wanted the people to do what it is asking them to do it would fix the price of lamb at 3d., and say to the producer, " We shall make up  your loss ". That, is being done in England. It is another instance of the necessity of war compelling  the  Government to make up losses to producers . by compensating them out of Consolidated Revenue. Under such a system those who possess most pay most into Consolidated Revenue and thus help the poorer people to obtain more lamb and fruit, and more of the commodities they need. But this Government does not propose to adopt that system, although it has been adopted in New Zealand and in England. What is the Government doing in that direction? It is. allowing the small, men in both primary and secondary industries to be starved out. As the result of the apple and pear acquisition scheme, almost all of the small fruit-growers will be unable to continue to . work their orchards, and under the wheat stabilization scheme, small wheat.farmers will not be registered, and therefore will be. unable to grow wheat. 
The demand is not that women should replace men. but thatthey should go into industry and help the men. 
Put a jeweller on the 25-pounder gun? Tim I is what the honorable senator is suggesting. 
The honorable senator, is out of date. A Minister has just been appointed to attend to all those things. 
And who are they - the men on the honorable senator's side of the chamber? 
Were not producing as much as they had been. Again the foreman replied that material was lacking. Had the Government taken the advice of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions, there would now be &lt;a shop committee in such establishments charged' with the responsibility of maintaining production and seeing that the work is done properly. Then, should a difficulty occur in regard to the procuring of material or in the falling off in. production, that committee would have to explain the reason. At present, that is the job of the manager.. The foreman said to  me,  " It is not my business; it is the manager's responsibility ". 
Whilst lockouts are encouraged, too? 
I come now to a very contentious subject, to which quite a number of references have been made during this debate, namely the lag in recruiting. I have heard no suggestions by honorable members opposite as to what should be done to correct the position beyond an implied threat that unless the lag is made up very quickly conscription will have to be resorted to. 

 Sitting suspended from 1245 to 1.1,5 p.m. 

To put tlie matter even move bluntly, we have the right to demand that soldiers shall not be wasted in efforts which have not been carefully thought out and adopted as integral parts of the supreme strategy of winning the war. . . . Have we any warrant for assuming that blood, including Australian blood, has already been wasted in subsidiary or collateral enterprises? It is to answer this question, and not with any desire to be ungenerously carping or wise after the event,  that  we must review dispassionately, but critically the Grecian a.nd Cretan campaigns. The "forces and equipment put into Greece, particularly aerial, were wholly inadequate to influence to any degree the ultimate issue of the war, which is the only thing that should matter. 
When a leading newspaper  states that  soldiers are being put into the field without proper equipment, one can. readily imagine the effect on the minds of the people. The average Australian also wants to know what is being clone about' home defence. Does the Government intend that all. of the men who are available shall be sent overseas? It has made no pronouncement which would give a clue to its intentions in this connexion. Before, the outbreak - of war we were told by mein who have done good service for this country, and  who areregarded as military experts, including the High Commissioner in London,  Mr. Bruce,  that in the event of war Australian troops would not be required to serve overseas. Subsequently, these statements were contradicted. All these matters are turned over in the minds of young Australians, and they are suspicious of those who appeal to them to enlist. 
I now refer to regulation 75 issued under the National Security Act. I am astounded at the terms of this regulation, which reads  as  follows: - 
After regulation 10 of the National Security (Supplementary)Regulations the following regulations  are added: - "11. - (1.) The power of the GovernorGeneral to appoint officers of the Defence Force and to issue commissions to them shall extend to the appointment of such aliens, not being enemy aliens, to  - 
the Military Forces for service in the AustralianImperial Force, as the Military Board recommends, 
the Naval Forces, as the Naval Board recommends, and 
the Air Force, as the Air Board recommends, and the issue of commissions to them. " (2.) An alien, not being an enemy alien, may be enlisted in - 
the Military Forces for service in the Australian Imperial Force, subject to the approval of the Military Board or of the District Commandant of the Military District in which the alien resides at the time of enlistment, 
the Naval Forces, subject to the approval of the Naval Board, or (c) the Air Force subject to the approval of the Air Board. " (3.) An alien may be enlisted in the Military Forces, the Naval Forces or the Air Force without being required to take and subscribe an oath or affirmation of enlistment. ... 
Any alien who enlists in our armed forces should be required to take and subscribe  an  oath or affirmation of allegiance. 
SenatorMcLeay.  -  But would the honorablesenator  object  to an American takingonthe job? 
There are some in the French Foreign Legion. 
A person shall not be capable of being registered as a patent attorney unless he is a British subject. 
That provides that an alien must not be registered to hold the minor position of a patent attorney, whereas regulation 75 permits the appointment of. aliens to important positions. The lives of our soldiers might be endangered if an alien were placed in control of them. The lag in recruiting is caused by many things which should be explained by the High Command overseas and by the Commonwealth Government. If the Government does not mean exactly what is stated in regulation 75, it should take particular care to make known far and wide the meaning that it intended to convey. Most of the aliens in Australia who are eligible for appointment as officers have been trained in conscript countries, and no doubt they believe in treating soldiers as they are treated in Europe. If they were allowed to do so, they would cause disruption in the ranks, and a number of our men might be court-martialled and punished because of their opposition to alien officers. 
What is done in England has nothing to do with Australia. 'We possess sovereign rights to decide what is best for the defence of Australia. Australian officers should be in control of Australian soldiers, and the Government should not be permitted to appoint aliens, particularly if it does not require them to take the oath of allegiance. Must we adopt a policy merely because it has been adopted in England? I am strongly opposed to many acts of the British Government, particularly in relation to the military forces. Ifwe followed Great Britain's lead, Australian soldiers would be expected to fight for the same rates of pay as British conscripts. 
No, but the Government should make it clear that aliens who desire to serve in the Australian Imperial Force must serve under the same conditions as Australians. That is a reasonable proposition and I am certain that 90 per cent. of Australians would agree with it. 
I wish now to refer to the proposal of the Government to take certain drastic action with the. object of preventing strikes. As dispassionately as possible, I inform the Government that unless it is also prepared to take drastic action against profiteers and others primarily responsible for industrial trouble, disputes and strikes will continue to occur. 
I would much rather no strikes occurred, and I am perfectly certain that the number of industrial disputes and strikes would have been less had the Government accepted our advice in the first instance and agreed to the panels proposed by the  Australasian Council of Trade Unions, which provided for direct representation of the workshops. Under that system the first indication of a strike would have been apparent to the representatives, and the situation could have been dealt with immediately on the spot, and, if necessary, later referred to an appropriate tribunal. By that means it would have been possible to avoid a great deal of industrial dislocation. I desire the -wheels of industry to he kept movingwithout interruption. I consider it to he most important to the making of a total and successful war effort that industry shall be kept in operation. If the owners of private industry and services, and the controllers of prices, rents, and other matters affecting our economic affairs, were required to pay proper attention to the rights of the workers and were prevented from going along in their own sweet way, many industrial disputes would be avoided. 
The evidence that profiteering is increasing is unanswerable. Every wellestablished monopoly is increasing its profits. 
If it be not true, I ask the honorable senator to reply to certain statements that I shall now quote from the leaflet published weekly by Messrs. J. B. Were and Son, one of the highest and most reliable authorities on the subject in Melbourne. I direct attention to the following information which appeared in the company's publication dated Melbourne, the 24th January, 1941- 
Column "A" also shows thepresent yield in relation to cost assuming he had taken up all his rights; whilst Column "B" shows the average annual return on the original investment over the twelve years, assuming he had sold his rights and his bonus shares at the time of issue. 
It will be seen from the table that a man who expended £1,600 in buying 1,000 Broken Hill Proprietary shares at 32s. at the peak of the market in 1929 and exercised all subsequent rights would now have 3.280 shares, costing him a total of £3,100. The market value to-day of his holding would be approximately £7,407, showing a capital appreciation of £4,307, or about 140 per cent. 
Current dividends would give him a return of 7.9 per cent. on his cash outlay. If, however, he had retained only his original holding of 1,000 shares, but had sold his rights to new issues and bonus shares at the time of issue, his average return over the 12 years would work out at over18 per cent. per annum. 
Looked at from another point of view, if the proceeds of the sale of all rights and bonus shares were used to write down the cost of the original holding of 1,000 Broken Hill Proprietary shares, the investor would still have 1,000 shares for nothing, a capital profit of £1,000 in cash and an income of £75 a year at current dividend rates. 
In the case of Australian Consolidated Industries, the capital profit would bo £1,145, and the investor would hold 1,000 shares at no cost. returning him £70 a year. 
If the same procedure were applied to Colonial Sugar Refinery the investor would have 50 shares valued at £2,406 in the market at a net cost of £850, giving a yield of 10 per cent. per annum. 
From the above calculations, it will he seen that it has paid investors handsomely to put their money into the market leaders. With the tremendous industrial development now in progress in Australia, who can say what benefits will accrue to the holders of key stocks over the next 12 years? 

<graphic href="167332194106276_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

I agree with the honorable senator. The workers have been wonderfully kind - much more so than I should be disposed to be. I take it that no objection will be offered to such kindness? 
What I am saying cannot be divorced from the war  period. The plain fact is that the Government is allowing profiteers to use the war as a cover for making profits on an unprecedented scale, and this is militating against the nation's war effort; 
It is definitely and absolutely true. If the profits that are being made to-day by these monopolistic concerns were being used by the Government to provide better conditions for the workers and more materials for use in our war industries, our position would be better than it is. The Government cannot have it both ways. It cannot expect to allow increasing profits to accumulate in the coffers of the monopolies and in the hands of the investors, and, at the same time, to proceed with a total and successful war effort. The Government is, in effect, an accomplice of the profiteers in that it refuses to make a stand against them. 
SenatorMcLeay.  -  Where would  this  country be to-day without the Broken Hill Proprietary Limited? 
It would be in a muchbetter position if the Government were game enough to say that that concern must be declared a national utility, and that, for the duration of the war, the whole of the staff must be held responsible to the Government. All question of profit should be eliminated. What is to happen after the war could be left for later decision. The Government should say to that monopoly : " You will not be permitted to bleed the people of the country, and to militate against the country's war effort". If that were done the- Leader of the Senate would not need even to attempt to point the finger of scorn at the workers. 
They were sabotaged by the succeeding anti-Labour Government. The Labour Government in office at the time of the last war nationalized the shipbuilding industry, so that shipping could be carried on successfully during the war. It also acquired a line of steamers but immediately it went, out of office the succeeding government sold the ships. The country has never been paid for them, and there is a scarcity of shipping to-day. An anti-Labour Government in New South Wales also destroyed the shipbuilding industry that was established in that State and sold the equipment, not to British or Australian interests but to the Japanese! It would cost £1,200,000 to replace the machinery that was removed from the Walsh Island Dockyard by the direction of the anti-Labour Government. 
The Leader of the Senate has shown some anxiety to know what Labour intends to do in connexion with the war effort. Let me ask what this Government is doing? It is appointing aliens as officers in our forces, it is placing profiteers in charge of our war activities so that they may bleed the country white, and it is demanding that conscription shall be enforced on the workers in order that they may be compelled to serve under alien officers and to work for profiteers. 
The quotations that I have made from the pamphlet of Messrs. J. B. Were and Son show clearly that profiteering is rampant and increasing. The information that I have placed before the Senate could be supplemented by other similar details from many authorities equally as reliable as that to which I have referred. If the wheels of industry are to be kept running smoothly, as we all desire; if strikes are to be prevented, and if there is to be harmony in the relations of employers and employees, the Government must be prepared to take drastic action, not against the workers, but against the profiteers. If that be done we shall be able to use our financial resources to the maximum, and to organize our industries for a 100 per cent. war effort. 
Finally, I wish to say a. few words about the new order. The Prime Minister said, in effect, that after this war the world will not be the same as it was before. That is obvious to anybody who has studied the position, but, apparently, it was not obvious to the Prime Minister when he said, at the beginning of the war, that business should be carried on as usual. As a result of the war, the monopolies to which I have directed attention will either be reduced in number by the elimination of the smaller of them, and. will 'become allpowerful, or they will have to be made the property of the people. I hope that the change will not be accomplished by bloodshed, but  it remains for the Government to say whether the trial of strength to determine whether monopolies shall become national property shall take place without friction. 
I said that I trust . that the change will be accomplished .without bloodshed. Following the last war, the establishment df dictatorships in Italy, Germany and Russia caused bloodshed, but, in Australia, the people still have the franchise and. the right, on paper, to determine their- own industrial conditions. The change which I' hope, to witness in this country will, I believe, he peacefully accomplished, and will prove highly beneficial to all. 
I congratulate the Government upon the appointment of standing and parliamentary committees for the purpose of assisting it in its onerous duties. I am fully aware of the large volume of work now devolving upon both Commonwealth and State Ministers. The committees that have been appointed will be able to carry out important investigations regarding many proposals, and their recommendations should be of great -value to the Government. I 'believe that the right-men have been selected for the work that they will be called .upon to do, and I wish them every success in their new duties. My only criticism is that the committees should have been allowed to select their own chairmen. I suggest that attention be directed to industrial development in the less populous States in order to produce a better industrial and economic balance than now exists between those States and the rest of the Commonwealth. Such an adjustment would be most valuable in time of war.  Senator Amour  mentioned that there is a shortage of steel in Sydney. I remind him that Western Australia could make up any shortage of steel, copper, bauxite or tantalite. 
I intend to express my views frankly regarding preference to returned soldiers. During and after the last war, I paid par.ticular attention of the operation of this principle. I agree that our returned men deserve preference, but I cannot overlook the claims of others who w.ere too young to serve in the last war and of those who were employed in munition factories. The latter should receive a certificate indicating their service in the production of munitions, and this should place them on an equal footing, with returned soldiers, when they seek employment. 
Of what use would the soldiers have been if the workers in the munition factories had not provided the necessary war materials? 
The penalty would have been much greater, if no munitions had been produced. 
The man who is prevented from going to the war but enters a munition factory is entitled to privileges in time of peace similar to those of returned soldiers. . 

 Senator -Cooper. -  -The  munition worker has had an advantage over the -soldier, because he has had a chance to learn a trade during the war. 
I shall stick to my guns. I know several men in Western Australia who tried to enlist, but were not allowed to d'o so- because they were  regarded as key men in certain industries. I. have nothing against the returned soldiers. I have worked hard in their interests, but I am now urging the claims of the men who are prevented from, going to the war. 
Rifle clubs in Western Australia are charged for their ammunition at the rate of £2 Od. 8d. a thousand rounds, and also 15 per cent, sales tax. As these men are training for home defence,.! suggest that the ammunition they use should be  exempt from sales tax. Every possible encouragement should be given to them. 
Aircraft of various descriptions is being manufactured in Australia, but are machines of the lastest types being produced ? If we can build Wirraways, we should be able to produce the latest bombers. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  has stated that Britain will require our help in the air, rather than by land or sea, and I hope that the Government will build the best, and not the worst, aircraft. 
It is certainly not the best. 
When members of the Defence Forces are being transferred from Western Australia to the eastern States, whether they be airmen, soldiers, sailors or nurses, they are entitled to comfortable travelling facilities On the railways. They should be accommodated in special trains, and brought over in large parties, instead of in small groups. It is rather embarrassing to see officers and noncommissioned officers taking their meals with civilians on the trains, whilst privates have to stand aside. On one occasion, sufficient food could not be provided for soldiers travelling on the transAustralian railway, and special arrangements had to be made for the provision of meals at Rawlinna. 
I have before me the case of a bricklayer who enlisted at Northern on the 4th March, 1941. After being in camp for a few months, he was sent to Sydney. Unfortunately, during a period of leave, he had more alcohol than was good for him, and he was struckby amotor car. He was placed in hospital in Newcastle and was subsequently transferred to a hospital in Sydney, where one of his legs was amputated. After a period, he was returned to Western Australia, and he has now been discharged. In his letter to me, he states - 
I enlisted in December, 1939, and passed medical test in January, 1940, and went into Nort ham camp the 4 th March; was on the draft to go overseas in May, but was taken offand sent to Sydney to join the Engineers, as I was a bricklayer. From Sydney, I was transferred to Greta camp. On getting weekend leave,I proceeded to Newcastle, where I was injured in an accident, sustaining a frac tured leg which, through negligence,  both by the Military and the Hospital Board, the leg hud to be amputated. If the Army had taken notice of my several requests for removal to a military hospital, then it would not have happened; but I was left for twelve weeks in General Hospital, Newcastle, then the Army Medical Officer discovered that I would have to havemyleg amputated, and I was transported to P.O.W. Military Hospital, Randwick, where the operation was performed by  Colonel Vickers.  After nearly four months longer in hospital, I returned west, and have had another operation since being hack. I still maintain, had the Army done their job, 1 would have still had my leg but instead they left me to be made a mess of in the Newcastle Hospital. On being discharged about six weeks ago, the discharge read:" Owing to misconduct by being absent without leave ", but on producing my leave pass, the discharge was lifted for fourteen days pending the arrival of my medical papers from the eastern States, then I was discharged medically unfit, not occasioned by my own default, and that discharge was waived aside for another month, until I was discharged on the 30th April with the same discharge, and since then I have applied twice for a pension, which was not granted, andI now have to go before a tribunal when next it sits in Perth.  Mr. Spender  (Minister for the Army) stated that no man was to be discharged until he was as nearfit ashe was on enlistment, yetI am discharged without an artificial limb even, ora job that a limbless man could do.Now, taking all things into consideration, it is not much thanks to a man who volunteeredearly in the war, and not conscripted. 
A letter written to him by  Major B.  G. Rutledge reads as follows: - 18th July 1940. 
Your several requests for removal to P.O.W. Hospital, Randwick, have been passed to H.A.R.T.D., and your case has had the" special attention of the Commanding Officer, 2/5 A.C.H., who has also made inquiries into the quality of the medical services being-givenyou at the Newcastle Hospital. Everything in your interest is being done. I sincerely regret that you are having such a bad time as the result of your accident, and trust your condition is not so serious as when, you last wrote. 
This man has a wife and five children. He has no work, and has to receive assistance from the Child Welfare Department of Western Australia. That is not right. Because a man has a couple of drinks and is " skittled " by a motor car, he should not he made to suffer beyond what he has already suffered. He was neglected in Newcastle Hospital, with the result that, after three months, he had to be sent to a hospital in Sydney to have a leg amputated. The matter should be immediately rectified. 
Another case that I have had submitted to me is that of a man of German descent, 35 years of age, who was born at Southern Gross, in Western Australia. He has a wife and one child. He has been denied entry to the ranks of the Australian Imperial Force, the Royal Australian Air Force, or any other defence service. For years he was in the Militia in Western Australia, and when war broke out was detailed to guard duty in connexion with the ordnance at Fremantle, for which, he received efficiency pay amounting to £2 2s. Had he not been a good man, he would not have been given those duties to perform. A month after war broke out he endeavoured to enlist, but his family record showed that his father had not been naturalized, and he was rejected. He asks why he is compelled by law to enrol and vote, and yet is debarred from military service. His father died twenty years ago. I intend to place the whole of the facts, which are contained in correspondence, before the Minister for the Army. 
A typical case is that of a soldier from Western Australia, who was killed overseas on or about the 11th February, 1941. He left a widow and one child. The widow received military payments up- to the end of March, when they were discontinued. Up to the 23rd May, when the Repatriation Department was consulted, finality had not been reached in respect of a claim for a pension. Had it not been for the Soldiers' Dependants Organization it is quite" likely that this woman would have been forced to apply for assistance to the . State Charities Department, which is doing wonderful work in Western Australia. The -matter has -since been adjusted. 
.- I urge on the Government the desirability of arranging that the debate on supply bills, shall in future take place simultaneously in both Houses of Parliament. This is necessary because, on  mOre  than one occasion, similar arguments have been advanced in the two chambers, and honorable senators have been accused of merely repeating what had already been said in the House of Representatives,, and were therefore wasting time. If the debates took place simultaneously, credit for the propounding of an idea would go to the first member^ who made i,t. .. - . , , 
Some time ago the ministerial statement was made that publication of the sixth volume of the  Official History of the Australian Imperial Force,  for- which we have been waiting for so long, would be made in June of this year. I urge the Government to see that this record is brought up to date as early as possible. Returned soldiers' organizations throughout Australia are keenly anxious that the last volume shall be' completed. 
When mcn in Tasmania enlist in the Royal Australian Air Force they are sent to schools on the mainland to undergo training. This is an injustice to Tasmania, which has . two part-training schools", one at Cambridge in the.southern portion of the State, and the other at Western Junction in the northern portion of the State. Tasmanian- trainees would be more contented, and the work would be better done, if their elementary training were carried out at one or other of those schools, instead of their being sent to Victoria, South Australia, and other States, whilst South. Australians and. Victorians are taken to Tasmania for their elementary training. Cost of transport would be saved, and the present agitation would be avoided in connexion with the inability of trainees to take advantage of home leave when in States other than their own. It will be agreed that Tasmania has not had a proper share of the defence expenditure. ' This is one way in which  its rights can be observed. 
I have been requested by the St. Helens Progress Association to ask for the establishment of an air training school at St. Helens, which is on the east coast of Tasmania. It has a first-class aerodrome, one of the best climates in Tasmania, water, electricity, and everything else needed for the establishment of an air school. If this request were granted, there would be a triangle of aerodromes - Western Junction, St. Helens, and Low Head - which could be used in conjunction for air training school purposes. I see no reason why this should not bc done. 
At Western Junction, excellent re-  creational and canteen facilities are provided for members of the Royal Australian Air Force, but they are not available for. the ,use,  pf  the men who are  engaged on garrison duty there. In the present fight for democracy, the men who are guarding this air training school should not be denied these facilities. I request the Government to remove this anomaly. It would be stupid to suggest that separate recreational facilities should be provided for the guard at. Western Junction .when they need only cross the road in .order to use those that are provided for members of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Some little time ago, I addressed a meeting at Ulverstone, and had put to me the request that the Government should take control of the blue pea crop of Tasmania. I did not take the matter further, because I thought that the request was not sufficiently backed by the producers' organizations. In company with the honorable member for Bass  (Mr. Barnard)  I recently made a tour-- of the eastern districts of the .State where numerous requests were made to us to induce the Commonwealth Government to control the' marketing of - blue peas, if not throughout' the whole of Australia,-, at least in Tasmania. When the crop is growing agents . go to the grower and say, " We - will give ' you 15s. a bushel -for all the blue peas you can harvest this year. - If the war should "end suddenly there will be no market * for your crops." On tlie Sydney market last year blue peas were sold for from 24s. to 26s. a bushel and at present the Launceston merchants are offering 21s. a bushel. These agents who 'play on the credulity of the farmers are definitely engaged in a form of profiteering and the Government should take action to curb their activities. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to this matter. 
Recently I placed a question on' the notice-paper asking if tlie Government would fix a minimum price for potatoes. In the districts where they are grown potatoes are cheaper than in other areas. Recently, on the north-east coast of Tasmania, which is not a potato-growing district, silver-skin Bismarks of excellent quality grown from Government certified seed could be bought for 4s. a bag. It is impossible for farmers to make a living at that price. In failing to fix a minimum price for potatoes the Govern ment has fallen clown badly on its job. In order to induce the Government to fix a minimum price for potatoes, the following letter was sent to the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page)  by the Tas.manian producer's .organization: - 
On 'behalf of the above organization, which represents a large percentage of potato growers in this State, we desire to bring to your notice the very unsatisfactory position of the potato industry at the present time, and the urgent need for Federal action' to protect the growers from the ruinously low prices now ruling. -As you are probably well aware, potato growing is a very uncertain proposition, crops and prices varying greatly from season to season, and- as high prices are usually the result of low yields, the grower is lucky if he can show a profit over a period of years, as seasons of low prices predominate. Last year, potatoes. being scarce, the price was high,, and although this circumstance bad nothing whatever to do with war conditions, potatoes were declared under the National Security . (Price Fixing) regulations and a maximum price fixed, which prevented farmers from getting the full market value. Practically no exception was taken to this by the growers," as it was understood that in the event of there being - a glut in future seasons, the [growers would be protected by minimum prices. A glut occurred early this year and since February last prices have been below the cost of production,  and  growers are facing a very serious position unless action is taken to regulate the market. lt is generally agreed that in the absence of any other outlet the only procedure is to keep the surplus on the farm and feed it to stock,and' it is suggested that this could be effected by strict grading regulations in all States with a view to keeping off the market all but No. 1 grade. We understand from Professor Copland that he is attempting to bring this about, and we should greatly appreciate your co-operation in this direction. 
No convincing argument can be advanced against the fixing of a minimum price. 
I propose now to deal briefly with the position of apple and pear growers who have had surplus crops. In my opinion no fruit-grower whose crop has been damaged by hail and frost should be compensated, unless he has lost the whole of his crop. I know that some of the growers in the Lilydale and Huon districts, who arc orchardists solely, have lost the whole of their crops through hail and frost damage. Some time ago I attended a meeting at Cygnet regarding this matter at which the following resolution was carried unanimously: - 
That in ' the opinion of this meeting it is essential for the apple and pear industry to receive Commonwealth  financial  assistance in regard to losses caused by climatic conditions. Such assistance to be on the same basis as that provided to wheat-growers for drought relief. Further that this meeting fully supports the State Government in its efforts to secure equitable treatment for the apple and pear growers. 
As the Premier of Tasmania is now discussing this matter at the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers, I shall not discuss it further at this stage. 
There is a constant demand in Tasmania for the installation of automatic telephone exchanges. I know that this is not an opportune time to make requests for the extension of facilities of this kind ;but I ask the Government not to lose sight of the importance of the matter. Recently, a deputation waited on me urging that automatic exchanges be installed at St. Helens, Branxton and Lilydale. I trust that as soon as the Government can find the necessary money to install additional automatic telephone exchanges in country districts the needs of Tasmania will not he overlooked. 
I propose now to say a word or two in favour of increased remuneration for nonofficial postmasters. As the result of the introduction of petrol rationing and the child endowment scheme the work of these people has been greatly increased. In one or two cases the salaries of nonofficial postmasters have been increased by 2s. 6d. a week. That is little enough; but in the majority of cases they have not been compensated in any way for the extra work they are now called upon to perform. I trust that the Government will give this matter serious consideration. 
Every endeavour is being made to develop the fishing industry in Tasmania. Unfortunately the operations of the canning factory established at Lady Barron, Flinders Island, have not been very successful. Some time ago, with members of the House of Representatives, I urged the Government to grant assistance to the company operating the Flinders Island factory, either by way of a direct loan or by a grant, to enable it to undertake the construction of a fishing fleet. The Government, however, could not see its way to grant our request and thecompany, finding it could not carry on, disposed of the business to a Tasmanian company. 
If the necessary finance had been forthcoming the company would now have been able to supply practically the whole of the requirement of cannedfish for the Defence Department. The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research reports that there is an abundance of fish in Tasmanian and Bass Strait waters. The Government would do well to foster this undertaking as a war-time industry. If the whole of ourrequirements of canned fish were supplied by Australian canners a considerable saving of dollar exchange could be made. Not long ago when crossing to Flinders Island by aeroplane we passed a very extensive shoal of fish. To give honorable senators some idea of the size of the shoal, although the aeroplane was travelling at 158 miles an hour, it took us eleven minutes to cross it. We were told by fishermen that in one catch they could take 500 tons of fish from that shoal and they would not be missed. The development of the fishing industry would be of immense benefit not only to Tasmania but also to the mainland. If a canning factory were established in Hobart the fish could be taken off the boats at Bridport, St. Helens or Triabunna and trucked to the factory in Hobart for treatment: 
Yesterday, I directed a question to the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Collins)  with regard to broadcasting station 7NT. That station is satisfactory in every way except that there is a break in the transmission from 8.15 a.m. to 10 a.m. I asked if it were not practicable to have a continuous programme provided by station 7NT and was informed that the break is necessary to enable maintenance work to be performed. It is difficult to understand why that is necessary in view of the fact that maintenance work on the mainland stations is done at night. In the northern part of Tasmania reception from the Victorian stations3AR and 3LO is not satisfactory. A. relay station should be established in northern Tasmania so that listeners in that part of the State may have a choice of programmes. If that be impracticable, the transmission from 7NT should not be interrupted. 
Recently, a contract was let by the Commerce Department for the construction for a lighthouse-keeper's residence at Low Headat a cost of  £2,130. I understand that a sixroomed dwelling is to be provided. Bricks and materials for the dwelling will have to be carted from Launceston, a distance of 40 miles. At Low Head there are ample supplies of the best concrete gravel and sand in Australia. It has been said that a concrete building cannot be made waterproof. As a structural engineer I say definitely that a concrete building can be made waterproof if proper care and sufficient time is taken in its erection. At least £1,000 of the cost of this new residence could be saved if it were constructed of reinforced concrete, and the concrete structure would be a better and more lasting job. 
As honorable senators are aware, facilities for travel to Tasmania are limited owing to the exigencies of the war, and to overcome the difficulty Tasmanian members and senators are allowed six passes a year to enable them to travel by aeroplane. At present the steamer service is limited to three trips a fortnight, and it is almost impossible for honorable senators to make an uninterrupted journey to Tasmania. If they cannot travel by air, they have sometimes to wait three or four days for a boat. At the conclusion of the last period of  the session honorable senators and others travelling from Canberra were provided with accommodation in the second division of the Melbourne express, which did not arrive in Melbourne until after the steamer had left. We are entitled to more consideration by the Transport Department when we have to catch a boat in Melbourne. If we did not use one of our limited number of aeroplane tickets in the instance I have mentioned, we would have had to wait a week in Melbourne for the next boat. As other honorable senators wish to speak . on this measure, I shall not delay the Senate longer, but shall furnish directly to the Ministers concerned the observations which I intended to make on several other subjects. 
 It is so long since honorable senators have had an opportunity, to speak in this chamber that many of us are quite out of practice and unable to do justice to our subject. Now that ;we have a chance- to f speak on a&gt; Supply 
Bill, and many matters come to our minds, our opportunity to speak is limited because this legislation is being rushed through in circumstances which have led the honorable .senator who has just resumed his seat to cut short his remarks in order to give his colleagues an opportunity to take part in the debate. 
The first matter with which I wish to deal is petrol rationing. The indecision and vacillation which has characterized the Government's legislative programme, since the outbreak of war, have been in evidence in its handling of this subject. Its handling of the petrol rationing has been most unfair to not only motor car owners and users, but also to the industry generally. When the scale of rationing to operate to the end of June, was announced, the motor industry believed that the drastic reductions involved represented the limit to which the Government would go. In. those circumstances, motor users and traders generally entered into large commitments which to-day represent very serious losses to them. I read in the press last week a report by the managers of the agencies for De Soto and Pontiac cars that due to the. latest reductions announced, their businesses would be ruined, because they had purchased and paid for new cars which they would not now be able to sell. Apart from the question as to whether rationing on so severe a scale is necessary or not, the Government must have known for some considerable time exactly what would be its requirements, and also what degree of rationing would have to be enforced. However, it allowed the impression to be conveyed to the community that the present scale of rationing would finally satisfy its requirements. Furthermore, if it were sincere in its efforts to conserve supplies of petrol, it would itself have set an example to the people by exercising economy. Some months ago, it announced that producergas units would be installed in 10 per cent, of Commonwealth- cars. This week,, both  Senator Fraser  and I have asked what percentage of Commonwealth cars have been fitted with producer-gas units, but no answers have been made available to those questions. After all, they were not difficult questions. I ' believe that the Government can readily give1 the answers,  but simply refuses to do so. Indeed, I do not believe that more than 2 per cent. of Commonwealth cars have yet been fitted with producer-gas units. From my own observations on visits to military camps, and from what I have been told by other people who are more familiar than I with the matter, I do not believe that one solitary military vehicle is fitted with a producer-gas unit. We have this extravagance on the part of a Government which does not hesitate to institute a scale of rationing which must involve the ruin of motor traders in Australia as well as many- private' businesses dependent upon motor transport. It cannot be said that the Government has set an example in this matter: Its failure to do so is inexcusable, because it has at its disposal more means to install producer-gas units on its motor vehicles than are available to any private . business. Indeed, if necessary it could' construct its own factories for the manufacture of such units. That would not be unwise, seeing that abundant supplies of charcoal are readily available to the Government. To-day, one gets a shock if he sees a producer-gas unit on any Commonwealth car. One can only concludethatour petrol position is not so serious as the Government would have us believe. Apparently, the Government'smain excusefor imposing the severe restrictions which- are to operate as from 1st J uly next is that tankers are not arriving. It would be interesting to compare the quantity of petrol shipped from the United States of America to Japan during the last ten months with that shipped to Japan during the preceding ten months. 
No ; but if 
Japan canget all the petrol it requires from the United States of America, there must be something wrong with this Government if we cannot get what' we want. All along, the man in the street has realized that some measure of petrol rationing would be unavoidable. However, the Government refuses to tell us what percentage of petrol is being used by military vehicles. 
Senator.ARMSTRONG.- I heard the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  say by way of interjection, but not in answer to a question, that the quantity of petrol used in military vehicles represented 2 per cent. of the total petrol consumed in Australia. I should like to see the figures on which that percentage is based. I suppose that it does not include the petrol used by the Air Force and the Navy. I recall that during a confidential meeting of senators and members in the House of Representatives, the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  refused to say what quantity of petrol was being used by military machines. To-day, nearlytwo years after the outbreak of war, we still hear responsible Ministers stating that the Go-" vernment intends to deal with the position. The Minister for Munitions said only last week that substitute fuels will be produced. Such statements arouse uneasy thoughts in the mind of the man in the street. At this stage of the war, he wants to know, not what the. Government intends to do, but what it has already done. He wants to know what petrol substitutes have been produced, not what the Government intends to produce within the next twenty months or so. I need hardly remind honorable senators that many nations and flags which existed twenty months ago have disappeared. But the Government continues to speak of what it intends to do. The Minister said that the production of substitute fuels would be part of a. long-range programme. Instead of listening to talk about long-range programmes, we are entitled at this stage to hear something about the fulfilment of some of the programmes which the Government is always announcing, but none of which ever seems to produce results. A programme has now been announced for the production of substitute fuels to provide one-third of Australia's requirements. I repeat that at this stage the man in the street does not want to hear any more about the Government's intentions. He wants the Government to come along and say just exactly what has been done, how much petrol has been stored in Australia, and how many producer-gas units have been manufactured. 
I know how many gallons Ave have stored; but that information  was  given to us in secret. Nevertheless, I am obliged to raise this matter, when I hear such statements. still being made by Ministers, and find the Government still immersed in mists of doubt. In view of the latest severe restrictions announced by the Government, the man in the street must conclude that . our petrol position. is desperate. I remind honorable- senators opposite that in not only this chamber, but also, the House of Representatives, members of the Labour party, have for the past ten years- been urging the Government to- establish plants for the production of oil from coal. The necessity for that action has also been stressed in the daily press.' The man in the street, who has been  aware  that, for many years past, oil has been produced from coal in European countries, including Great Britain, begins to wonder whether our failure to undertake that work is due to lack' of initiative on the part of the Government, or to a lack of skilled men.- He is of opinion that we should have both. We certainly have men of sufficient skill for that work; so I leave it to honorable senators to say for themselves what, has been lacking. What is the position at Newnes to-day? It seems almost impossible to obtain a statement from the Government in regard to that undertaking. The Government has been pouring money into the  Newnes  project far in' excess of the amount specified, in the agreement reached some years ago, yet no statement has been made either to members of this chamber or of the House of Representatives. It is ascandal. We have heard  various  figures of intended production  varying  from 10,000,000 gallons a year to ' 30,000,000 gallons a year. What I Avant to know is how many gallons have been produced since the company commenced operations at Glen Davis; how many" gallons are being produced each day now, and when will the objective of 10,000,000 a year be  achieved?  Further, I should like to know how much money the Government r has. put into this project, without the concurrence of Parliament, since the legislation providing aid to the company  was  passed? 
I have read in the press that an electric car invented by a  Mr. John  Bowker, of South Australia, can do 'approximately 100 miles for 9d. According to neWS.paper reports the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  has been interested in the project for some months and is discussing proposals for its exploitation with officers of the Department of Supply and Development. Under instructions from the Prime Minister the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has examined the proposals, but has withheld final decisions pending forthcoming trials of. the new car. Here again there appears to be delay and vacillation. Apparently, such a car has been on the road for twelve months in South Aust tralia. It has .been examined by officers of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and .by members of  the Ministry, but still no definite action has been taken. Surely by now the Government must know whether the car is practicable for general use. If there be any value in this invention it should be exploited immediately because in the present crisis Ave must grasp at- everything which  Will provide an alternative to the use of petrol in thi3 country. When the Government launched its campaign to convert motor cars and lorries' so that the)' could be propelled by producer-gas instead of by petrol, it ' undertook to -install producergas units on 10 per cent, of its OWn vehicles. Yet, despite the fact that the petrol ration has been' so" cut that 90 per cent, .of motorists will find- it necessary to install producer-gas units,  or cease to use their .  vehicles  there is little evidence of the Government having fulfilled its undertaking. I have not yet seen a single truck or ear on military duties fitted with a producer-gas unit. 
Why should I not see them? 'The  job,  which thesevehicles are doing in the military camps,  is the same 'as that being done by ordinary' commercial "motor cars and trucks. They are attached to various military camps - throughout ' Australia, but they are largely engaged on the same jobs as they would do in civil use. They have to pick up. and deliver supplies, transport "officers and men, and the like'. I contend that if producer-gas units cannot be used on these army vehicles, the Government has a " hide ". to ask the general public to install them. 
I have not mentioned the word "pleasure" at all. In the absence of the Minister for the Interior'  (Senator Foll),  I have been talking of the fact that the motor trade now faces ruination. More than 8,000 men will be thrown out of employment as a result of the latest drastic cuts in petrol quotas. The point I wish to make is that very soon neither pleasure nor business motorists will be able to use: their vehicles owing to petrol rationing. If the position is as serious as it, would appear to be military "cars and trucks stationed at the various military camps and" establishments throughout Australia -should be converted to -producer gas. The sooner the Government -goes ahead with the job of installing producer-gas units on at -.least '70 per cent, of the defence cars and lorries, -the. soo'ner. the public will take similar action. ' -.- "-.  Senator LECKIE.-  The honorable- sena-  tor realizes, .of ^course;- that; .in the' event of ,an invasion, those -vehicles would be used on military operations^ ;  "Senator- '  ARMSTRONG. - And so would every other car and truck available in the country. 
I should also like to say a few words with regard to the efforts being made to establish a reasonable system of defence in this country. At the outset, I should like to explain that these are not merely my own views in regard to this matter, but they are the views of" highly placed military - men who have done me the honour of expressing their opinions to me.' The present system of compulsory military training is not producing the results that were anticipated. ' The greatest fault that military men have to find with the .system is that during the three months that the men are in camp, they reach an advanced stage of efficiency in their training, but they then return to civil life for three months. Originally it was intended that the men should be in camp for three months out of every twelve, but because of the Government's desire to keep the forces up around the 250,000 mark, it has been found necessary to put the men in camp for six months out of every twelve. It has been found that when the men come in for their second three months' term, their numbers are reduced to an extraordinary degree. Some camps expecting 5,000 compulsory trainees have received only 3,500 or 3,S00. The reductions are caused by enlistment in the Australian Imperial Force, exemption because of hardship, or exemption upon applications from employers. The result is that the entire organization of platoons, companies, battalions and so on, is upset, and the whole training has to be started over again. From what I can gather those in charge of training operations are firmly convinced that it would be far better to have a permanent army of 100,000 men than to try to train 250,000 young Australians as they are doing now. Under the present system  a  tremendous amount of work is involved in bringing new men up to the standard of efficiency of more experienced trainees, and' the feeling -amongst the officers in charge is -out of. .futility,- because even ' with- the intensified training at' present in operation, the soldiers, lacking modern equipment, are- not- reaching the standard of proficiency that they should attain. 
There is another aspect of the matter. Despite the fact that the jobs of young men going into camp are protected to a certain degree, quite a lot of Australians are very casual, and when they find they have been, displaced from their former positions, they do not approach the tribunal which has been set up to protect them. In fact many of them do not fully appreciate their rights in that regard, or  do not know how to go about the matter. Consequently,many of them become unemployed. I have talked to some of these young fellows, and the possibility of losing their jobs is a great bugbears in their lives. Amongst the compulsory trainees are many hundreds of suitable young men who make every effort to stay in the training camps. Because of. their prolonged training they have risen from the ranks to the positions of corporals or sergeants, and they look upon the military work as their lives and future. They wish to be kept permanently in . the military organization. I do not think that the Government would have any difficulty at all in establishing a permanent home defence force of80,000 or 100,000 which could he kept in camp continually, and thus be ready for service should the occasion arise. If that were done, the officers in charge of training our home forces would be much happier about their work than they are to-day. I hope that the Government will consider my suggestion, because this is a. very important matter. It appears that at present the dislocation caused in homes and in industries by putting militiamen in camp for short training periods of three months is not being compensated by the attainment of a high degree of proficiency by those trainees. 
There is another matter in connexion with which I feel that the Government needs a shaking up. The Government is being congratulated a shade too much upon the excellent speech made by the Prime Minister, and on the appointment of three additional Ministers. I am reminded a little of the methods used by the Baldwin Government in Great Britain. When attacks by opponents of that Government became severe and drew too much public attention,  Mr. Baldwin  would graciously admit that he saw the position clearly; and he would thereupon lay down a plan of re-construction. At the end of six, eight or ten' months, however, it would be found that nothing had happened, and the same process would be gone through again. 
SenatorCollings. -  Mr. Baldwin's  slogan was " Wait and see ". 
He was an expert at diverting criticism by the promise, of action, and the present Prime Minister of Australia reminds me very much of him, but at this stage I am not very much concerned with what the right honorable gentleman has promised to do. I am not convinced that the appointment of three new Ministers to the Cabinet will accelerate our war effort in any way. It is quite obvious that members of the Cabinet are not really running the country. . They are notmaking this country safe for democracy, but, rather, by the appointment of leading industrialists to key positions in our war organization, they are merely protecting the interests of Australian monopolies. The key men of practically every monopoly in Australia hold important posts in the Government's war effort. 
But they are using their ability in a way that will not do much good to the country. A brief survey of the position discloses that appointees of the Government include,  Mr. Essington  Lewis, of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited,  Mr. W.  J. Smith, of Australian Consolidated Industries Limited - which company, apparently, the Government intends to take proceedings against for alleged war-time profiteering -  Sir Philip  Goldfinch, of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited,  Mr. Thorpe,  Director of Machine Tools, and  Sir Archibald  Howie. There are too many others to mention now. The latest appointment, which was announced in the newspapers this morning, is that of the general manager of the British-Australasian tobacco monopoly to the post of DirectorGeneral of Supply. 
The honorable senator did the same, and so did the Minister for the Interior. Many Australians offered their lives for their country and came back. 
SenatorMcLeay.-It ill becomes the honorable senator tospeak like that of a great Australian. 
The honorable senator cannot put me off the track by drawing ared herring like that across the trail. 
That man was in the last war ; so were 350,000 other Australians who- enlisted, and every one of them, whether he was a lieutenantcolonel or a private, was as good a man as he is. Many of them finished up on the dole. 
I would not comb the land in order to secure the services of heads of monopolist concerns. Anybody who has watched closelythe development of Australia's war effort must be amazedat the rapid growth of monopolies. Even the latest development in the field of aluminium production is shrouded in ' mystery, It appears as though the Government will before long have the greatest aluminium monopoly in * the world in possession of the industry. Are there no capable men in Australia, apart from the heads of these big industrial concerns? Because of these appointments every Australian is doubtful of the Government's capacity to produce the maximum war effort. It will be interesting to learn who will be appointed Governor of the Commonwealth Bank.  Sir Alfred  Davidson, of the Bank of New South Wales, would be the ideal choice, if the Government is to be consistent. We can rest assured that the monopolists will not fail to look after their own interests. When this war ends and we look around among the shattered ruins - there will be devastation everywhere even if we are victorious - we shall see standing upright, with their chimneys smoking and huge profits accruing, the factories of all of these monopolist companies. Even though the morale and the health of the average man may be farbelow what they were when the war began, these concerns will have increased in power out of all proportion to their rights. It should be the bounden duty of the Government to prevent this sort of thing. The Government has established committees to superintend our war effort, and the Labour party has given the services of many of its members in order to assist it, but still we see monopolists being called in to take more control out of the hands of the men who should be conducting the affairs of the country. These industrialists are the men who are governing Australia to-day. If they were doing a good job for the defence of the nation I should acknowledge their right to hold the positions which they occupy, but these successful commercialists have definitely failed to direct Australia's war effort to the best advantage.  Mr. Aldridge,  a representative of the Sydney  Sun,  who should have as much first-hand knowledge of this war as anybody, because he has visited many fighting fronts, asked when he returned to Australia recently, " Why train your men with rifles and bayonets? The war is not being fought with rifles and bayonets, but with mechanized equipment ". We have no automatic fire power in our army. There are no Bren guns in our military camps, "we have very few Lewis and Tickers guns, and we have no heavy artillery or first-line fighter aeroplanes. We aremanufacturing Wirraway aeroplanes,but we should have progressed beyond that stage in the first eight months of the war to the manufacture of Hurricanes, Spitfires, and American Curtiss fighters. Without them we cannot defend Australia adequately. The Government has not attempted to take even the initial steps necessary for the manufacture of front line fighter aeroplanes. Until we can manufacture all of these things the Government is wasting its time by training 250,000 boys to defend our country. -They must have mechanized equipment and aerial support. How far  has  the Government gone with the production of tanks? The monopolist  directors whom I have mentioned arc supposed to be getting on with this job. If they could build up the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, multiplying its capital many times in 30 years, why can they not build tanks, fighter aeroplanes and automatic weapons? About three- weeks ago I read that a' young man had invented a tommy-gun, and that the Government intended to place a trial order for about 100 of them. It should have obtained licences from the United States of America at the outbreak of war for the manufacture of its full requirements of this kind of weapon. The manufacture of tommy-guns is not nearly so involved as is the manufacture, of Bren guns. Had the Government been alive to its responsibilies, it would have sent men to the United States of America in order to obtain licences and blue prints, so that our factories could - have been turning out these weapons in thousands by now. We are importing tanks to-day, and yet we are exporting Wirraway training aeroplanes. If we are making too many Wirraways, we should switch part of that branch of production over to the manufacture of front line fighter aircraft. Although we are supposed to have the services of the best brains drawn from the ranks of the monopolists in Australia in the direction of our war effort we have very few of the essential things that are necessary for the proper defence of Australia, and, worse than that, the Government cannot tell us when we shall have them. Until- we can see tanks, fighter aeroplanes and a wellequipped army with adequate automatic fire-power actually in the field we shall be suspicious of the bona  fide3  of the Government and the monopolists who pull strings behind the scenes. 
 'A great deal of interest would be added to this debate if supporters of the Government broke their silence and endeavoured to give satisfactory replies to the criticism that has been voiced by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Since the debate began yesterday afternoon there has been a constant flow of criticism of the Government's activities which warrants some reply from Ministers. Even honorable senators on the Government side of the chamber have spoken in a critical vein. 
There has been no opposition to the actual terms of the bill, which provides for an appropriation of £15,141,000, but the discussion has revealed that dissatisfaction with the policy and administration of the Government exists throughout Australia. Sometimes I wonder whether the Labour party was wise in refusing to be associated with a national government and whether a transfusion of good red blood into this anæmic administration would not be good for the country. 
I hope so, but perhaps the best thing would be to allow the patient to die, and put a healthy government in power. I have no intention qf .causing disruption; my criticism is always intended to be constructive. However, there is a strong feeling throughout the country that all is not well with our war effort, and that excessive profits are being made by private companies. There is widespread unrest, misunderstanding and dissatisfaction. We have been at war for nearly two years now, and it is time that this state of affairs terminated. 
I endorse fully the remarks of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan and  Senator Brown  regarding the propaganda activities of the Government. For a long time the Government paid far too much attention to misrepresenting the Labour party's attitude towards the war effort. I am pleased to notice that there is now some evidence of a lull in that campaign. There are to-day some' signs that the Government understands the position better, .and is prepared to deal more fairly with, the Labour party. I trust that the appointment of the committees announced last night will prove helpful in this direction. I have always contended that the Government has been "slow in the uptake ", but it may be that better days are ahead of it. 
The manner- in which the petrol position of Australia has been handled shows that Ministers merely muddle their way through the problems that come before them. The petrol rationing scheme is a pure bungle. By enforcing drastic  restrictions on city and country people alike, the Government has shown its inability to cope with the situation. To deprive city people of the use of motor cars does not mean very much, for other means of transport are available; but to deprive country people of the use of their motor vehicles is serious in the extreme. It was apparent to many people eighteen months ago that the position in respect of motor spirit and lubricating oils would become serious in this country, but the big oil companies declared that everything would be all right, and that rationing would not be necessary because ample supplies would continue to be available. That was not the view of the thoughtful sections of the community, but the Government allowed the extravagant use of private motor vehicles to continue, with the result that restrictions have now been imposed ' on both commercial and pleasure transport. Had a sound policy been adopted eighteen months ago, the worst of the difficulties of the present situation could have been avoided. But' in this, as in many other matters, the policy of the Government has been " wait and sec". I realize that recriminations will get us nowhere, however, and that we must face the- facts as they are. We must all be prepared to suffer such inconvenience, and to make such sacrifice as may be necessary, in the national interest. 
The Government would have been wise had it obliged private cars used for pleasure purposes to go. off the roads long ago. It would also have been wise had it taken effective action two or three years ago to ensure that Australia would be more self-contained in respect of motor spirit. We should have undertaken the production of power alcohol and other substitute fuels long ago. I am glad that, at last, I can congratulate the Ministry upon a decision to do something in this direction. It has been guided for too long by armchair economists in this and in other matters. Had the policies enunciated by these theorists been followed in every, way, Australia would still have been without  any basic industries, and our position would have been desperate. The Government should even now implement a &gt; bolder "policy than it proposes for the production: of power alcohol. The recommendations of the Power Alcohol 
Committee of Inquiry provide among other" things for the manufacture of 50,000,000 gallons of motor spirit a year. That quantity could and should be produced. Tha proposals of the committee should be adopted more fully than at present seems to be likely. 
I was pleased to hear the speech of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, but his utterance could have been delivered more appropriately from this side of the chamber. For many years, honorable senators opposite have scorned and ridiculed the ideas enunciated by honorable senators of the Opposition, and the honorable senator himself has acquiesced in the " wait-and-see " policy of the Government. To-day he seems to realize that a more vigorous  administration is necessary, and that everything possible should be done to prevent the dislocation of industry. Although the honorable senator contended that production should be increased, he did not say in what way finance could be provided for that purpose. It would be absurd for us to think that we can continue to produce profitably commodities for which we cannot find a market, and it is the responsibility of the Government to see that our resources are organized so as to provide work for all and to prevent the dislocation of industry. 
Two or three years ago, we discussed the practicability of establishing a shipbuilding industry in Australia. I referred to the capacity of certain ship-building yards in Queensland to construct wooden ships that would be of service to the country in a time of difficulty. I said . that I believed that we could construct a large number of motor torpedo boats, and other small craft that would be useful for defence purposes. Yet, the Government is only now considering .these, possibilities. A few months ago, I was assured by a shipbuilder of Brisbane, whose plant was then engaged in the building of yachts for pleasure purposes, that he could build vessels that could he of great assistance to the Commonwealth in relation to defence needs. 
It is characteristic of all anti-Labour governments, however, to delay action. Honorable, gentlemen opposite, like their  political associates in anti-Labour State governments, are not blessed with constructive minds. They seem quite content to remain inactive until necessity forces them to do something. I have said on a. previous occasion, and I repeat it now, that for a long while the only defence policy that the anti-Labour parties had was to present a battleship to the Mother Country. The Labour party has always advocated the adoption of adequate defence measures for Australia. Now the Government is being stampeded into action, and our position is so serious that we are obliged to do things in a way that 
Ave  would not prefer. . If we had made proper provision for defence, we should doubtless have. been a more effective force in assisting to preserve the peace of the world. Although members of the Government have hitherto seen fit to criticize the Labour party,. I hope. that the present signs that -they are prepared to pay some heed" tq pur . proposals, is an indication that they have "experienced a change "of heart. Honorable gentlemen opposite have also habitually indulged in criticism of the Trade Union movement, but in this regard also they are, perhaps," seeing the error of their ways. I hope that as they work with us. on the various, committees that are to bc appointed, they will appreciate that ' we desire, at least as much as they do, to promote the interests of Australia, and that we are prepared to contribute to the best of- our ability to that end. I hope .that in the future we shall hear less criticism of the workers of Australia from honorable gentlemen opposite. By our co-ordinated efforts, I trust that we shall be able to contribute towards the development of a far stronger British Commonwealth of Nations so that our enemies will be overcome and this disastrous war terminated . sooner than we dare to expect at present. If the Government will indicate to the workers of Australia that it really desires their co-operation, I am sure that it will find them ready to join in a maximum war effort." 
In conclusion, I wish to emphasize the necessity for providing additional storage for the. surplus primary products of Australia, so that they may be available to other parts of the Empire after the war is over. Tremendous financial obligations will be involved in providing adequate storage for our bountiful production, and the Government will need to give some consideration to this aspect of the subject, at an early date. Whilst it may be futile for us to produce goods for which we cannot find a market and for which shipping space is not available, there i? a great deal to be said for building sufficient stores to house our surplus products until they can be marketed. I trust that the Government will make finance available for this purpose. 
.- The purpose of this bill is to provide a sum of  £15,141,000  for Supply to the 31st August next. For reasons which '"will be obvious to honor- - able senators, I do not intend to oppose the measure ;. but I shall take this opportunity to make a -few- remarks concerning members of the Government, both as legislators and as administrators. The Senate has been called together for.' two sitting periods since the 28th May, and it will probably be summoned to.meet again  some time before the 31st August to provide . additional- finance for. governmental activities. On the occasions on which we . have met since the 28th May, we -have  dealt with only two important bills. Oneof these related to child, endowment, and it canriot.be said that* the Government  made .a good job. of it. It is now found that amendments will- have to be sub- "mitted to the Parliament to enable many anomalies to be removed. 
During the present sittings only one measure of major importance, namely, the Ministers of State Bill, has been passed. It seems that when the Government finds that it is necessary to introduce one bill of importance,- members of the Parliament are called together from  all parts of Australia at .considerable expense in order to deal with it. This Government has been long- enough in office to enable Ministers to be sufficiently well trained in the art of administration to be able to present to the Parliament a legislative programme, but it has failed to do that. On the return of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  from abroad, I thought that the representative of the Government in the Senate would have submitted a programme of works for the better development of Australian  industries, as well as for an additional' effort towards the winning of the war, but that has not been done. Naturally, on his return to Australia, the Prime Minister was very tired. He said that he had travelled- 42,000 miles by air, and that his trip 'had been very interesting, but the most" interesting thing that the people of Australia wanted to know was what he recommended should be done in this country in connexion with the international situation. What is required of Great Britain and its allies with regard to the war effort was not made known  to us, and up to the present the people have been denied that information. I am surprised that the Leader of the Senate  (.Senator McLeay)  has not seen fit to present to this chamber a statement regarding the present international situation. Surely the Government is advised of what is going on .throughout the world. We do not know where we stand with respect to our partnership in the British  Commonwealth of Nations and our great effort to combat Hitlerism. Apparently we are not- to be advised- on that matter during the present, sittings. How can we give our best services to the people whom we "represent if we are working in the dark? We have had no advice regarding activities of Austraiian airmen overseas, and no request has been made with regard to what should be done to make up deficiencies in personnel. Nor are we advised as to an increase of air protection required by our troops, the need for which was. demonstrated in Greece and Crete. That  debacle  reflects no credit on the higher commands in either Great Britain or Australia. The British Government was attacked, in regard to that aspect of  operations in that area, not by representatives of Australia in our own Parliaments, but by important and responsible newspapers in Great Britain itself, which drew attention to mistakes that should not have been made. That matter has been passed' over quietly, but somebody must shoulder the blame for what occurred. I am giving away no secrets  when I say that the Australian forces did not have sufficient protection in the Middle East. Statements by General Blarney were published in the press in 
Australia indicating that what we needed most was,- not additional recruits for the Australian Imperial Force, but more fighters, bombers and tanks. That is the situation to-day. At the time of the withdrawals from Greece and Crete, the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  demanded a quickening of the recruiting efforts of the responsible officers of his department, and an appeal was made for more men, but the Minister had nothing to protect them with. Such an' appeal by a man occupying such a responsible position as that of Minister for the Army shocked the people of Australia at that time, because he demonstrated that he had not closely scrutinized the press reports regarding the criticism of the higher commands in Great Britain and in the Middle East. It also showed that the Minister had not paid attention to the remarks of General Blarney. Instead of demanding more and more men, the responsibility lies on the Government to see that war planes are turned out in such large quantities, and with such rapidity, as will give to Australian fighting forces a chance equal to that of those against whom they are pitted in the Middle East and in other battlefields to which they have been sent. That is the work which we expect this Government to do. 
Perhaps we have seen this week a flash of high-speed governmental action, because a bill has been passed to. increase the numerical strength of Ministers of State. I welcomed that measure, and was glad that the additional Ministers appointed are well qualified for the duties that they will be called upon to -perform. Whereas men of legal training are worthy of a place in ministries, it is Possible to have too many of them. Therefore I welcome the- appointment of men not associated with the legal profession. In view of the appointment of these additional Ministers the people of Australia will expect a speeding-up of the production of munitions and other materials required for the war effort and also a greater utilization of our national resources. Whether the Government- will accomplish that, is beyond my power to predict at the present time; because, so far, the delays that have occurred, and the inability and incapacity of at least some of those who hold, ministerial posts, have been such that I am given no encouragement to expect any great degree of improvement in the future. I need only refer to the confusion that has been caused in connexion with petrol rationing. There has been complete muddle since its inception. It would appear that, at the moment, not only the Government but also the users of petrol in Australia are most anxious to utilize producer gas units in order to obtain motor power for the purposes of their business. The Government, knowing that rationing was to be effected and that there would certainly be a scarcity of petrol in Australia, did nothing to speed up the production of producer-gas units to replace that of which the people were to be deprived. Until after the Parliament went into recess quite recently, it did nothing towards the standardization of producer-gas production in Australia. "What is the reason ? Why have delays occurred? Why has no action been taken ? Surely it was apparent to the Government and its responsible advisers that such action would have to be taken as would prevent the. dislocation of industry. 'Honorable senators need only travel through the agricultural areas of this country in order to witness the depletion of population caused by the reduction of petrol supplies. Many places that were towns a few months ago are almost completely depopulated at present, and industries which were connected with their establishment have gone out of existence, as the result of petrol rationing. 
Mention has been made of a " new order " which is to follow the termination of this war. The present order, or disorder, that has been allowed to grow up in this country has destroyed almost every semblance of industrial activity, not only in our country areas but also in some of our more important rural towns; yet nothing has been - done to correct the position. The Government does not seem to think that any responsibility rests upon it. Its most urgent cry is for men and more men to reinforce our troops overseas. I find no fault with that, provided that other important issues which concern the welfare of this country are not overlooked ; but the Government has been responsible for neglect in many respects, and that will have a terrific repercussion on the lives of the people in the very hear future, even before the war is over. 
Unemployment is growing in some States. It may be said that many persons are unemployable, because they have not been fortunate enough "to receive training in trades or professions. Nevertheless, they are here, and many of them were following most useful occupations before the outbreak of the war. To-day, there is no place in industry for them and they cannot obtain work. My reason for mentioning the matter is to bring directly under the notice of responsible Ministers in this chamber the urgent need for the adoption of some means for the training of men, who to-day are unemployable, to do useful service for the Australian nation during the whole period of crisis. The Government is making no worthwhile effort. Some of the technical schools in the different States have undertaken technical training, but only to a limited degree. The Government is not handling the situation at all; it has entirely neglected that phase of administration. Although many Ministers have stated that some action should and would be taken, that has not been done. In my own State, over 100 young people who are capable of being trained have applied to be trained, but apparently proper facilities are not available. Nor. is there scope for training which would enable them to be employed in useful occupations in connexion with the present requirements of the nation. That is the condition not only in Western Australia but also in other States. Maybe the Government will .speed up its operations. It is to be hoped that it realizes that its responsibilities are enormously greater now than they were only a few months ago. As Ministers are to receive assistance, they should avail themselves of every moment of their time to do their utmost, to make a maximum effort. That is not yet being -done. Much could be done, to deal with matters that urgently require attention. For example, surely the Government does not claim that it is doing its utmost in connexion- with the production of aircraft for war purposes. Nor can it claim that it is exploiting available mineral deposits to obtain metals used in munition production. 
The opportunity is present. The Government has not been short of money. It has had enormous sums; so much, in fact, that it has not been able to expend the whole of the amount voted. What is the trouble? Has the Government done anything in connexion with the training of administrators? 
I want Ministers to reply to these observations. The. people of Australia are deeply concerned, and want to know why certain commodities of which mention has been made in this Parliament have not been produced in larger quantities. We have had almost two years at war. We have read in the press, and have heard it stated by responsible persons, that Australia has accomplished wonderful feats of progress and development since the outbreak of hostilities. Doubtless we have; but we could have done better. We are not yet utilizing the resources that are available to us. We are not training, on special lines, the young men who are ready to be trained, in order that they may undertake special work. It is of no use to say that we have not the necessary tools. Tools are being produced. There are lathes in different parts of Australia which could' be requisitioned if they were required. Various parts of machines could be utilized for the purpose of tool production, but that is not being done. Huge factories in Australia are employed to-day on work, not for the purpose of assisting our war effort but in order to keep luxury trades fully supplied. The services of the machines, machinists and technicians in these factories should be utilized solely for the production of essential war supplies. The skilled technicians engaged in these luxury industries should be engaging in the task of training others in the production of goods necessary to enable the Government successfully to carry on' our share in the war.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that we should pray for Russia's success. I remember the time when some Labour people in Sydney carried the " Hands off Russia " resolution and how we had to stand up to the taunts and gibes of honorable senators opposite concerning it. To-day, however, Ave are asked to pray for the success of Russian arms. I am just as anxious as is  Senator A.  J. McLachlan to see Russia beat Germany because I want to see the dread spectre of nazi-ism banished from the earth. It is extraordinary that Ave should have been sneered and gibed at by honorable sena tors opposite at the,very timewhen the British Governmentwas attempting to arrange for its representation atMoscow with a view to the creation of better relations between the two countries. I mention this now because it is necessary to remind honorable senators of how they change their ground. We were not only flagellated by honorable senators opposite  and asked to carry theonus of responsibility of decisions made by a tribunal with which Ave had nothing to do, but Ave. also had to stand up to libellous statements in the Australian press. However, we knew the situation much better than did the Government of the day. 
The Governmentwould bewell advised to spread the expenditure of defence moneys throughout Australia proportionately to the raising of taxes and of revenues. 
Anything may be impossible until it is attempted. Why should the great reserves of men and materials in Western Australia be forced to lie idle? The reason is obvious. The Government is carrying out its usual formula of protecting its wealthy supporters in the more prosperous States without regard for the consequences to our Avar effort. Whenever Western Australians have endeavoured to establish a factory in theirown State, competing manufacturers in the eastern States have reduced the price of their commodities with the result that the industries in Western Australia have been strangled in their infancy.. We have adopted a new philosophy. It is no use crying in the wilderness. We know that we have to depend on ourselves. We realize that the people of the eastern States are too busy looking after their own affairs to give us a thought exceptwhen they need our raw materials to keep theirown industries going. 
The Labour party has made it possible for this Parliament to beworkable. We expect the Government to get on with thejob. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have co-operated with the Government in every possible way. We are prepared to assist it by taking our place on any of the Standing and Parliamentary committees which have recently been appointed to advise Ministers in connexion with the various phases of industrial and rural development, and to assist it in connexion with any other matter on which it desires our advice. In future, we want from this Government deeds not word.'. We do not want the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Senate to say, "We are going, to do so and so". We are fed up with that. If the Government  porposes  to make appointments for the purpose of speeding up production, provided the selected men are wisely chosen, let it make them and tell us about it afterwards. It is useless for Ministers to tell us what they propose to do six months hence. 1 am glad that the office of assistant minister has been abolished. Although many assistant ministers were very good mon, they were hampered by lack of authority in carrying out the work of their departments. 1 trust that no appointments of this kind will be made in tho future. We have responsible Ministers now, and we  expect  them to do the work of the nation and to be answerable to Parliament for  the work of their departments. 1 appeal to tlie Government to do the job instead of merely talking about it. .1 am prepared to assist the Government in every way to bring into being a total -war effort. "I shall do everything possible to block the depletion of our country towns and the smashing of our country industries. lt is a sad spectacle to see the residents of country towns forced into the metropolitan areas to earn a living. No good can come of it. Every effort must be made to k:ep country people in their own districts by providing them with occupations at a wage which will enable them to live decently. 
In view of the fact that a good deal of the criticism indulged in by the honorable senators opposite has been directed to service , departments, the Leader of the Senate  (.Senator McLeay)  has asked me to assure honorable senators generally that their representations will be brought to the notice of the service Ministers concerned. A good deal of the criticism which has been directed against the Government, in relation to the war effort is entirely unwarranted and unfair. Honorable senators opposite should ask their colleagues on. the Advisory War Council whether it is not a fact that since the outbreak of war a complete change has come over the scene in this country in relation to our defences. Listening to the speeches of some honorable senators opposite, particularly  Senator Armstrong,  and to a lesser degree,  Senator Cameron,  one would imagine that during the whole of the period of the war, the Government has done practically nothing in the interests of our defence. But honorable senators know perfectly well that that: is not the case. They know that, new life has been infused into our activities, of which they can see evidence at every turn. Every facility is given to honorable senators to see for themselves exactly what is being accomplished in the organization of our defence. If they would accept those opportunities they would learn of the new organization of industry, involving new classes of machines, and the manufacture of equipment which, a. few years ago, no one even dreamt could be made in this country. If they made such investigations they would not indulge in criticism of the kind that has been voiced this afternoon. One thing that strikes me very forcibly is that, apparently, the only way in whichwe can really hear of the good work thatis being done by the nation is when a distinguished person from overseas visits us and is given an opportunity to see what we are doing. Since I have been Minister for Information it has been my privilege to welcome many distinguished people from the United States of America and to provide them with facilities to' go through our munition and aircraft factories. Invariably, they have expressed wonderment at the progress we have made in the establishment and development of our war industries, and on their return to the United States of America they have written of our work in the most eulogistic terms in the press of their country. Of course, this Government has made mistakes. But if honorable senators opposite, or members of , any t other political party, had been occupying the treasury bench during the last two months, mistakes also would have occurred. Our industrial accomplishments since the outbreak of war, have been marvellous, when we think of the new spheres into which we have launched, and the new kinds of manufacture we have undertaken. I say to  Senator Armstrong  that no one has done more to revolutionize industry in this country than  Mr. Essington  Lewis, of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, whom he has so thoughtlessly defamed. When the Government looks for guidance in the organization of its war effort, it must naturally utilize nien with the best brains and experience.. To the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I say that  Mr. Brodribb,  who is a brilliant man- and has been associated with the production of ammunition for many years, will tell him that the advice and organizing capacity placed at his disposal by  Mr. Essington  Lewis has been invaluable in the building up of our war industries. That observation applies also to many other men associated with various industries whose services have been co-opted by the Government in its war effort. I know 'from personal experience that many of those gentlemen, who one honorable senator has said are most concerned about  safeguarding their own affairs, have completely neglected their own interests in order to give their services to the country in the present crisis. We should now be in a very sorry plight had we not been able to utilize the brains and capacity of many of these leaders of industry. It is only natural that when we want jobs of this kind done, we should look to men of ability, as undoubtedly these men are. When Ave look at the industrial map of Australia to-day, Ave find that a complete change has come Over the scene during the last  few  years. Honorable senators know that in their respective States, huge Empire air training schools have sprung up, and that seaplane bases, on  which  men have worked day and night in order to complete the jobs to schedule, have been constructed. They also know the tremendous burden that has been placed upon our naval establishments since the outbreak of Avar. It is not hard to imagine the  work  involved in the fitting of ships with guns and paravanes, and the conver sion of small craft to  mine-sweepers.  A tremendous amount of organization has been necessary to accomplish those things. Honorable senators are  aware  that factories have been established from one end of Australia to the other, and are now engaged in Avar" production. They also know that Ave have been able to produce considerable quantities of munitions for not only ourselves but also other Empire countries and the Motherland itself. 
No ground exists for the statement that shipbuilding has been neglected. The Government was urged by the imperial authorities to concentrate on naval shipbuilding in preference to commercial shipbuilding. We were asked to place our yards at the disposal of our  Navy,  and the British Navy, for the construction of ships of a certain class,  which  honorable senators know are now being launched at regular intervals. Every shipyard is being fully utilized, and every man skilled in shipbuilding is engaged in that  work 
I am now referring to ships which Ave have been constructing to specifications supplied  by  the British naval authorities. That work is proceeding at the greatest possible speed. We have been working strictly to a naval programme in preference to a commercial programme, and not only our own Navy, but also the British Navy has been greatly assisted by that work. In times such as these, no Government expects to be free of criticism, but whatever criticism is offered should be fair. Now that committees have been appointed, honorable senators, will have a greater  knowledge  of the activities of the Government than they have had in the past, and they  will  have an opportunity to acquaint themselves  with what  is being clone in Australia. Unfortunately, some of  the speeches delivered to-day have not been good advertisements for Australia's Avar effort, or a true reflection of what is being accomplished by this country at present. 
That is quite true. I should like to express my appreciation of the references made by honorable  senators to the work of the Department of Information. I am very much in accord with the statements made by Senators A. J. Mclachlan, Brown and others. Frankly, 1 do think that the propaganda side of the department - has been neglected, or at least has not functioned to the best advantage. There has been an effort to make the department a news bureau rather than a means of disseminating propaganda, but it has not the facilities for supplying either overseas or local news in competition with newspapers and broadcasting services. I believe that its organization can be much better utilized solely on the propaganda side, and, as  Senator A.  J. Mclachlan and others have said, by making known to the people all that nazi -ism stands for and what it would mean to this country or to any other country which came under its control. I .assure the Senate that the Department of Information is not an easy department to administer. Many of the difficulties which the British Department of Information has had to face also apply to the Department of Information here. For instance, there are difficulties in connexion- with the service departments which, in many cases, are not desirous of having information regarding their activities published. Whilst they cannot be blamed for that, because there are many things that should not be published, the public demands more and more information. In trying to supply that need, the Department of Information must not lose sight of the fact that the service departments themselves always endeavour to play safe under the National Security Regulations. I have effected many changes in the organization of the department, and I have cut down considerably some of its activities which I considered to be wasteful or unwarranted. I assure honorable senators that I shall endeavour to utilize the department along the lines suggested by- them. I repeat that I am in agreement with, the suggestion that the department should be used more as an instrument of propaganda than as a news service. 
I should like' also to express the Government's appreciation of the good wishes expressed in the .speeches (qf some honor able senators concerning the new Ministers. I trust that with the active cooperation which we hope to obtain from the recently appointed committees, ..and from the new Ministers, our efforts will be even greater in the future than they have been in the past. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first and second time.  

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
The schedule. 
, -Provision was once made - under  the  Department of Defence for  subsidizing  gliding clubs. I have brought this matter up on several  occasions, because I believe that we should encourage gliding in this country. It is  true  that quite a number of people  are  opposed to the idea. It is generally recognized to-day that the Government would have been wise to encourage gliding clubs so as to develop airmindednessamongst young Australians. I should like also to have some explanation of the item relating to expenditure on rifle clubs. 
 I should like to have' advice  as  to what. I should do in order to assist  a  returned soldier who has made repeated unsuccessful applications for a military pension. I know this man personally, and his case is worthy of favorable consideration. He served at the last war for four years, and had a very good record: On his return to Australia he was able  to  follow a civil occupation for a number of years, and did not make any demands on the Repatriation Department. However, one of his legs has withered, and he is now unable to obtain employment of any sort. He contends that his disability is due to war service, but the department requires him to produce evidence to that effect. He is unable to do so. It is extremely difficult to prove, by medical evidence, that his incapacity is due to war service. He is in receipt of a pension of £1 a week, which is not adequate. Special consideration should be given  to  such cases. 
Soldiers who are. incapacitated as the result of war service are provided for under tlie Repatriation. Act and regulations framed under it. A claim :for a pension is adjudged in the first instance by the Repatriation Board. After that, the applicant has recourse to the Repatriation Commission. If his claim should be rejected by the commission, he may appeal to a tribunal composed of his comrades, who decide the question on the evidence which he submits. Even if the decision of the tribunal is against his application, he may make a further appeal if he can produce fresh evidence relating to his incapacity. Unfortunately, no country in the British Empire has yet undertaken the responsibility of caring for returned soldiers to the end of their days. The procedure is definite as a general rule. The applicant must prove that his disability is due to war service before he can receive a pension under existing legislation. 
Several cases relating to destitute widows of returned soldiers have been brought to my notice, and I wish to know whether any provision is made by the Commonwealth for their assistance. I have in mind the case of  Mrs. F.  M. Simmons, of Parkdale, Victoria, to which I directed the attention of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  some time ago.  Her  husband was a returned soldier in receipt of a pension, and she also received a pension of 4s. 6d. a week. He enlisted for home service during the present war, but died at the St. Kilda Barracks. The widow appealed for an increase of her pension, but the appeal was dismissed on the ground that she was unable to produce fresh evidence to prove that her husband had died from war injuries. She is an elderly woman and cannot obtain employment. When I directed the attention of the Minister for Expatriation  to her situation, he replied that the Government had no funds which could bc used for her assistance. The pension of 4s. 6d. a week which she is now receiving is far too small for her needs. Would not a pension for her be a fair charge on the nation? She is now dependent upon the charity of her relatives and any money that her two children can bring in to the home. . Until recently, both of the children were minors, and now one of them has enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. I should like the Minister to consider making provision for such cases. There .are not many of them and 'the expenditure involved would not be very great. 
I have been, informed of that fact, but I ask the Minister whether there is any  4special  fund from which some contribution could be made. It would not be a dangerous precedent to establish. 
The details of this case are .very well known to inc. There is nothing in this bill which covers cases such as that of  Mrs. Simmons,  nor 'has Parliament voted any money to a fund from which  3he  could be assisted.. Some years ago, the Government of the day proposed to introduce a scheme of social insurance, which would have" provided for such cases, but the scheme was not put into effect. I suggest that the honorable senator address a letter to me on the principle involved, and I shall bring it to the notice of the Minister for Social Services  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  with a view, if possible, to having some action taken along the lines that he suggests. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
 Bill' read a third time. 
I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Tuesday next, at 3 p.m. 
I remind honorable senators that at our next meeting honorable senators who were elected at the last general election will take the oath of allegiance in the presence of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
There is little need for me to add to the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay).  It is an occasion for regret that an honorable senator feels that he must relinquish his parliamentary duties on account of ill health. When an honorable gentleman disappears from among us as the result of political defeat we accept it as a result of political warfare. As the subject is painful, in that we do not know when our own turn may come. I may perhaps be excused from saying any more on the subject. In respect of  Senator Grant,  I repeat the hope that I expressed on a less formal occasion yesterday, that his retirement from the hurly-burly of politics will result in an improvement of his health and that the years ahead of him will not be less happy than the years that have passed. 
.- I feel deeply the eulogistic remarks of the Leader of the 'Senate  (Senator McLeay)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  concerning the serviceI have been privileged to render in the Senate for some years. I sincerely thank the Government,and also the Opposition, for their kindness to me during my illness and I make special acknowledgment of the generosity of the Leader of the Opposition in arranging a pair for me whenever I have needed it. The fact that such action is usual does not lessen my appreciation of it for I have often required a pair during the past threeyears. I have felt very much the kindness of the Leader of the Opposition in meeting me onevery occasion in this regard, and I shall always remember it. 
I express my thanks to you,  Mr. President,  and to all the members of the Senate for their uniform courtesy and kindness to me during my membership of the Senate. Although some of us differ politically, such differences do not affect the personal friendships' which we form and I trust that I may call all who are now members of the Senate my personal friends. We have our individual political ideas, and I respect the views of members of the Opposition as I am sure they respect mine. I am leaving the Senate with great regret. I have been a member of it for many years, and had hoped to finish my career whilst still associated with it. Owing to indifferent health, I have not been in a position to give my best service to the State which I have had the honour to represent for so long, and I thought that it was time for me to make way for a representative who would perhaps be able to render better and more effective service than I. I have to thank the  Hansard  staff for' the way in which they have reported my speeches in this chamber. Perhaps I have not always used classical English. I may have often employed good Australian instead, but my speeches have read practically as well as those of more fluent members of this chamber. The officers and officials of the Senate have been of great assistance to me, as to other senators, and I thank them also. We have to depend on them frequently for advice, and this has always been freely given. I wish the Senate Godspeed in its work, and leave with it my best wishes and also the clear conviction that senators will continue to uphold the honour and dignity of the chamber to which we have all been so proud to belong. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. B. Hayes).  - I endorse the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  regarding the retiring senators, and I wish them well. I particularly desire to refer to my old colleague,  Senator Grant.  I am sorry that he is leaving this Parliament. He is held in the highest esteem, both in Tasmania and in Canberra. He has done outstanding work in the Commonwealth and Tasmanian Parliaments, and I am glad to join in the expressions ofgoodwill and friendship towards him. As I have reached the end of the three years for which I was elected as  President  of the Senate, I thank senators on both sides of the chamber for their kindly assistance in enabling me to discharge my presidential duties. I owe a great deal to senators on both sides of the chamber, and I appreciate their kindness and co-operation.' I thank the  Clerk  of the Senate  (Mr. Broinowski), Mr. Edwards,  Mr.' Loof and others, for the great assistance they have given to me. I also thank the  Hansard  staff and the other officers of the Senate for their helpful work. 
 by loane  - Although,  Mr. President,  you stated that you had come to the end of the term of three years for which you were elected  President,  I would remind you that -the  president  of a great republic has had, not only one term but also- a second, and' has recently been elected for even a third period as  president.  I am sure that all of your friends in the Senate would be glad to know that you had not ended, your career as  President,  but only the first term of three years. 
In the House of Representatives, the Minister for Labour and National Ser-  vice  (Mr,  Holt) stated that additional officers of his department are to be located in Melbourne. I do not wish to add to what I said yesterday about the transfer of the Pensions Department from Canberra to Sydney, although I still think that such action is a crime against the National Capital. I understand that more than one-half of the existing staff of the Department of Labour and National Service at present located in Canberra is to be transferred to Melbourne. I believe that some of the members of that staff have purchased houses or aro purchasing them in Canberra. The .department is now undertaking work of great importance which has not previously been given to it, .and I understand that not more than half a dozen of its officers will be left* in Canberra. Will the Leader of the Senate represent to the Cabinet that thu Opposition asks for an assurance that the expanded reconstruction division, which was referred to by the Minister for Labour and rational Service, will not bc an appendage merely to the major department located in Melbourne? If the answer given by the 
Government is what I anticipate it will be, it will be entirely unsatisfactory to every member of the Opposition. 
I also direct attention to tha subject of granting permission to women to .travel overseas during war-time. It may bo imagined that I am referring only to women who wish to go abroad in connexion with war-time operations. Certain women have received permission to travel abroad since the outbreak of war. In what circumstances is such permission granted, unless it is given to all women who desire to go abroad? With the exception of Lady Blarney, the wives of men serving in the Australian Imperial Force have not be: n allowed to join their husbands. I am not now raising the point that Lady Blainey was allowed' to go overseas, although her return was demanded and she refused to return. I wish to know whether the . ban on the wives of men serving abroad would prevent them from travelling to any part of the world during war-time. The wife of a soldier may desire to go to another country. I wish to know whether the ban applying to soldiers' wives who wish to he near their husbands applies equally to those who wish to go abroad foi- other reasons! It  ought to be possible for the wife of a soldier in the Australian Imperial Force to obtain permission to travel abroad, and there should be no ban on her leaving, if the country to which she desires to go is within the British Empire. I have in mind the ease of a person who has been refused permission to take up a position which is waiting for her in India. I can bring that particular case to the notice of the Minister concerned, but I desire to know the general application of tha ban regarding the wives of soldiers who wish to go to another part of the British Empire. If the Leader of the Senate will note these remarks, I shall .be very greatly obliged. 

 Senator BRAND (Victoria) ["5.30"). - I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  to the excessive number of exemptions, granted to men called up for three months' militia camp training. It seems to me that a tightening up is necessary in connexion with the reserved  occupations. Recently a New South Wales brigade should have gone into camp about 4,000 strong, hut it was 1,000 short owing to exemptions. I wonder how many of these men were Commonwealth and State public servants! I ask the Minister to make inquiries, particularly in respect of public servants stationed in Canberra. Indeed, the whole question of exemptions by the Manpower Committee in each State requires an overhaul. 
May I, in this connexion, compliment  Senator Armstrong  who, although exempt as a member of the Federal Parliament, is voluntarily going into a throe months' camp with the 32-year-old draft. He has shown a patriotic spirit in preparing himself for any eventualities. 
.  -  in reply  - The points raked will be referred to the appropriate Ministers. I hope to have replies to them early next week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr. Broinowski  the time has now arrived for honorable senators to choose a suitable member of the Senate as its  President.  I move - 
That  Senator John  Blyth Hayes do take the chair of this Senate as  President. 
 Are there any other nominations ? 
I move - 
That  Senator James  Cunningham do take the chair of this Senate as  President. 

 A ballot having been taken, 

B. Hayes. 17 votes; Senate J. Cunningham, 17 votes. The voting being equal, under the Standing Orders the Senate will proceed to a second ballot. 
If two or more senatorsbe proposedas  President,  a motion shall be made and seconded regarding each such senator, "that  Senator do  take the Chair of the Senate as President"; and each senator so proposed shall address himself to the Senate. 
That standing order has notbeen complied with in that neither of the honorable senators who have been nominated has addressed himself to the Senate. 

 A second ballot having been taken. 


 Lots having been drawn, 


 Senator J.CUNNING HAM, having been conducted to the dais, said - I thank the Senate for having electedme to the high and honorable position of  President  of the Australian Senate. I also thank the mover and. the seconder of the motion nominating me. I assure honorable senators that I shall at all times endeavour to maintain the high standards set by. my predecessors and to upholdthe best traditions of my office. 
 I congratulate you,  Mr. President,  upon your luck, and I wish you every success in your high office. I very much regret that  Senator Wilson  was unable to attend the meeting of the Senate to-day by virtue of the fact that he is fighting with the Australian Imperial Force abroad, and that  Senator Allan  MacDonald was unable to attend as the result of his having been taken away to hospital by ambulance to-day. I can assure you,  Mr. President,  that honorable senators on this side of the chamber will do all they can to assist you to maintain order in the Senate so that the cooperation and harmony that have marked the proceedings in this Senate over a long period will continue. 
 Mr. President,  it has been a distinct privilege for inn, as Leader of the Opposition, to escort you to the Chair. I am confident that you will get full support from every honorable senator in maintaining the honour and dignity of the high office to which you have been called. I think that the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  was slightly ill-advised to make the remarks that he did make regarding absentee- senators, because he knows that it is not possible for the Opposition to give pairs in a ballot of the kind which has just been taken. The voting, therefore, has been carried out strictly in accordance with the Standing Orders. That is all I desire to say at this stage: except to add that we expect that honorable senators on the Government side will be as loyal to the gentleman who has been elected  President,  as we on this side have always been to his predecessors in that high office. 

 Senator E. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [3.3GJ. - As a fellow Western Australian,  Mr. President,  and also as one who sat with you in the Legislative  Assembly of that 'State for some years, and who was a member of that Parliament while you were a member of the Upper .House of that legislature, I should like to add my congratulations to you upon the good fortune -which resulted in your election. 
It is known, of course, that I did not vote for you,  Mr. President,  but I am personally pleased to see yon take your place iti the President's chair. I am sure that you will maintain the traditions of the high office to which you have been called. 

 Senator COURTICE (Queensland) [3.3SJ.  -  It gives me great pleasure,  Mr. President,  to congratulate you on your election to the high office which you now occupy. I feel sure that you will carry out your duties and responsibilities with dignity and credit to yourself, and as capably as your predecessors. 
I take this opportunity to express  a  word of appreciation to the retiring  President, Senator J.  B. Hayes, and to thank him- particularly for the great consideration and kindness he always extended to me, and, I think, to honorable senators generally, while he was  President.  I shall always entertain very happy recollections of my first three years as  a  member of this chamber under the very able and very kindly offices of the retiring President. 
 I congratulate you,  Mr. President,  on your election to your high office. I trust that honorable senators generally will exhibit towards you the same kindliness and consideration which they extended to me while I occupied the chair. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear! 

 Senator FRASER, (Western Australia) [3.40   . -  I also tender my congratulations to you,  Mr. President.  I am confident that you will treat honorable senators on both sides of the chamber impartially, and that in view of your knowledge of parliamentary procedure, and your experience as a. Minister of the Crown in the Parliament of "Western Australia, and as a member of both branches of the legislature of that State, you will carry out your duties most capably. It is most fitting, indeed, that your honorable parliamentary record should now be crowned by your election as  President  of the Senate. 
 I, too, congratulate you,  Mr. President,  on your elevation to your high office. Having sat with you as a member of the Parliament of Western Australia, I am aware of your ability. It is noteworthy that the occupant of the 
Speaker's Chair iri the House of Representatives is also a Western Australian. Honorable senators  from that State, therefore, derive added pleasure from your election; and for the information of honorable senators generally, I might say that we expect further honors to fall to Western Australians in this Parliament. I congratulate the retiring  President, Senator J.  B. Hayes, upon the able manner in which he carried out his duties in the chair. He did justice to all honorable senators. Indeed, I think that you will' agree with me, sir, when T say that your predecessor has set you a high standard to attain. 
I thank the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  and other honorable senators who have spoken, for their congratulations upon my election' as  President  of this chamber. I shall endeavour to carry out my duties impartially, and, at all times, I shall do my best to uphold the dignity of this chamber. I trust that with the able assistance of honorable senators generally I shall be enabled to fill my new office with credit to myself and to this. National Parliament. 
 I desire to intimate to honorable senators that  His Excellency  the Governor-General will be pleased to receive  Mr. President,  and such honorable senators as desire to accompany him, in the President's room forthwith. 
The  President (Senator the Hon. J. Cunningham  took the chair at 3.50 p.m,. and read prayers. 
I have to announce that, accompanied by honorable senators,. I this day presented myself to  His Excellency  the Governor-General as the person chosen by the Senate as its  President. His Excellency  was pleased to congratulate me on my election, and to approve of the choice of the Senate. 
It is with regret that I inform the Senate of the death last month at Young of  Mr. John  Lynch, who was elected to the House of Representatives for the division of Werriwa in 1914 and again in 1917. Few of us remember the late Mi-. Lynch, but it is fitting that we should honour his memory, and extend to his relatives our sincere sympathy. - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of ifr.  John  Lynch, a former member of the House of  Representatives  for the Division of Werriwa, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his relatives in their bereavement. 
I desire to associate myself and the other members of the Opposition with this motion. I had not the privilege of the acquaintance of the late  Mr. Lynch,  but on such occasions as this, I think it is proper we should pay our respects to those who have passed on after having rendered valuable, service to this country. I believe that we should extend our sympathy to the relatives of the deceased. I am sure that our condolences will bc suitably conveyed to the relatives of the late  Mr. Lynch. 
Many years ago I was associated in the House of Representatives with the late  Mr. Lynch.  He possessed characteristics which are not likely to bo forgotten by those who knew him.  He  was once an energetic member of this Parliament and the loss of his services to the community is to be regretted. Members of the Country party join in extending sincerest sympathy to the relatives of the deceased. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Will the Leader of the Senate inform honorable senators when they will have an opportunity to discuss the statement delivered by the Prime Minister after returning from his overseas mission which was the subject of a debate in the House of Representatives? 
On the first reading of the Supply Bill passed recently honorable senators had an opportunity to debate the subjects dealt with in the statement mentioned. westernaustralianwar industriescommittee 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention, of the Government to release the report of the Western Australian War Industries Committee before the end of this session? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Treasurer consider the issue of a moratorium on life insurance policies and mortgages during the period ofthe war? 
Under the National Security (Debtor's Belief) Regulations the Government has already made provision for the protection of debtors who are unable to pay any debt by reason of circumstances attributable to the war. Also special provision in respect ofmembers of the forces and their female dependants is made in the National Security (War Service Moratorium)Regulations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice- 
How long has it been the practice to lease to private enterprise the canteens on ships of His Majesty's Australian Navy? 
Does the Minister think it proper that a situation shouldbe allowed to exist in which it is necessary for advertisements to he inserted in the press disclaiming responsibility for debts contracted by the management of the canteen? 
--The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answers :  - 
It has been the practice since the Royal Australian Navy was established. 
I do not think the situation is ideal,but experienceunder war conditions has indicated that some business peopleare under the impression thatsupplies to canteens, in His. Majesty's Australian ships are on Government account The advertisement was therefore instituted, on the adviceof the Crown Law authorities, to correct this impression. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the priceof superphosphate has since the outbreak of war, Been increased by £1 6s. a ton, making a present price of£418s.6d a ton in Western Australia, and similarly in the other States ofthe Commonwealth? 
Is it a fact that thesuperphosphate companies have forecast to their customers a further increase of about £2 a ton in the price of superphosphate, to be imposed in the immediate future? 
Is it a fact that the Government of New Zealandhas borne the whole of the increase in the price of superphosphate in New Zealand sincethe outbreak of war? 
Will the Government give similar relief to our primary producers? 
If not, why not? 
The Minister for Commercehas supplied the following answers:  - 
The increase in the price of superphosphate in Western Australia since the outbreak of war has been £1 6s. a ton, 19s. a ton in Tasmania, and £1 4s. a ton in the other States of the Commonwealth. 
I have no advice regarding any price forecasts being suggested by superphosphate companies to their customers. 
Yes. 4 a 11(l 5. The question of tlie price of superphosphate as it affects primary producers is being; considered - by the Government. It is hoped that a full statement of the Government's 'policy in this matter will be issued shortly. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the recent detailed statement of the British - Foreign Minister,  Mr. Anthony  Eden, giving complete endorsement of  President  Roosevelt's post-war policy of - international understanding, international co-operation, and international trade, will the Commonwealth Government give an equally comprehensive statement of the general aims of Australia's post-war policy? 
The Prime Minister has supplied- the following answer: - 
Australia's post- war. policy has bee'n referred to by the Prime Minister in- recent speeches with 'a completeness sufficient at the -moment to indicate the general attitude of the Government. At an appropriate time a further "statement will be made. ' 
asked the "Minister representing the Minister .'for Commerce,   upon notice - 
What are the amount of (a) salary, 'and (6)  travelling 'expenses, which have been 'paid to the Western' Australian representatives on tlie Wheat Board to date !  
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer:-. ;. 
The amounts paid to the two Western Australian representatives on the Wheat Board are as follows: -  Mr. J..  S. Teasdale (2nd October, 1939, to 30th June,  1941)- Fees, £440 r&gt;s. ; expenses. £407 19s. 5d.; fares, £1.042 4s.; total, £2,550 8s. 5d.  Mr. J.  W. Diver (11th December, 1940, to 30th June. 1941 )- Salary. £278 15s. 4d. ; expenses, nil; fares, £430 2s.;* total, £708 17s. 4d. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Did the Minister promise on the Srd April last to reconsider the policy of paying women employed in the Women's Auxiliary at two-thirds of the rate paid to men in the Royal Australian Air Force for the same class of work? 
If so, what decision has been reached as a result .of that reconsideration? 
What are the reasons for such decision? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answer: - 
The Minister for Air gave an assurance in the House of Representatives that be would bring before the Government the request that had been made from certain quarters that women employed in the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force should be paid at the same rate as -mcn in equivalent musterings. This matter is at present receiving the consideration of the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that brokerage and/or commission, is being paid by the Commonwealth 
Government on-.war loans to (o) -trading-banks, (;&amp;). insurance; companies, and.'(c)- stock" exchange brokers? 
If so. what is the amount paid? 
Is any brokerage and/or. commission paid  to any of the institutions -mentioned in No. 1 hereof in respect to war. savings certificates; if so, what is 'the amount paid? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers : -  -1. It is the general practice to -pay brokerage and commission to the persons and institutions mentioned, in respect of subscriptions to public loans, but no underwriting 'commission U being paid. .   
One quarter of 1 per cent. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing- the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that members of the garrison battalion at Western Junction Aerodrome are prohibited from using the recreation facilities in the .canteen ? -2. If so, will the Minister see that this order is revoked and that the services are placed on an equal footing? 
The Minister for .the Army has supplied the following answer : - 
I am' informed that following discussions between the military and air force authorities at Launceston, the embargo on the use of the air force canteens and recreational facilities by members of the garrison battalions has now' been withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice' - 
,What ds the basis of arriving at the value of motor trucks (the property of private owners)  compulsorily  acquired by the defence authorities? 
What redress (if any) have the owners of such transport trucks who have suffered financial loss as a result of such acquisition and who have  been  deprived of their means of earning a living? 
The Minister for the  Army  has supplied the following answer : - 
The Purchasing Boards are instructed to establish a fair purchase price for each type of vehicle to be acquired. This price to be based upon the ruling net market value of second-hand vehicles.' 'The Purchasing Board consists of: - Purchasing Officer j Technical M.T. Inspector; Member of  the District Finance Office Staff: Valuator nominated by the State Business Administration Committee. 
Owners 'whose trucks are impressed have the right to appeal against the price paid for their vehicles. There is .no appeal against impressment. The price paid enables owners to purchase another vehicle of a make not required by the Army. The Compensation Board consists of:- (n) A military officer from the reserve of  officers  especially for  the purpose; (6) The  chairman,  or his  deputy.,  of the State Business Administration Committee; (c) A third member especially selected for knowledge of the motor trade. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is the. skill of trained artisans being wasted .because of their employment as labourers in the Home Defence Forces? 
Can any skilled worker, for whom there is no work of a kind which he is specially trained to perform, gain his release from the Home Defence Forces, without delay, in order that full use may 'be made of his skill? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :- - 
No. There is a serious shortage of trained artisans available for Australian Military Forces units and any man with recognized trade qualifications is assured of an appointment commensurate with his ability. It is pointed out, however, that .both in the Australian Military Forces and the Australian Imperial Force, tradesmen have failed to disclose their qualifications upon enlistment, in which case, naturally, they are not employed at their trades. Any man in such a situation who applies for  and passes  a trade test can be absorbed at his trade. 
In the case of skilled trades for which there is no provision in army establishments, such a member would be released .promptly provided his special qualifications placed hint within the list of reserved occupations or if his services could be  .better utilized in munitions production. 
I move - 
That  Senator Walker  Jackson Cooper be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate. 
I move- 
That  Senator Gordon  Brown he appointed  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate. 
There being two nominations, the Senate will now proceed to ballot. 4  ballot having been taken, 
The result of the ballot is :  Senator .  Cooper, 17 votes ;  Senator Brown,  17 votes. In accordance with the Standing Orders, the Senate will proceed, to a second ballot. 

 A' second ballot having been taken, 

The result of the second ballot is:  Senator Cooper,  17 votes;  Senator Brown  17 votes. The voting again being equal, Standing Order No. 22 provides- for the drawing of lots. The  Clerk  will place in a box two pieces of paper bearing the names of  Senator Cooper  and  Senator Brown  respectively. He will then draw the name of one candidate and the name remaining in the box will be that of the successful candidate. 

 Lois having been drawn, 

I declare  Senator Brown  elected as  Chairman  of Committees. 
I thank the Senate for the honour that it lias conferred on me in electing me to the important position of  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate. My good friend,  Senator Cooper,  was unfortunate in the drawing of lots, but that is the luck of the game. I shall do my best to follow in the footsteps of those who have occupied that important office with dignity and distinction in the past. I shall certainly act impartially. In carrying out my onerous duties I shall have to rely a great deal on the  Clerk  of the Senate. 
I shall be happy to refrain from doing so. Although as  a  senator I may not always have kept quiet, I. have acted decorously when serious matters have been under discussion. At other times, I believe that I have made interesting contributions to the debates in this chamber. When men are suffering from stress and strain, as is frequently the case when dealing with important legislation, no harm is done if occasionally some one addresses the chair in lighter vein. As  Chairman  of Committees I shall at all times endeavour to serve. the Senate and the country. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear ! 
I congratulate  Senator Brown  upon his election as  Chairman  of Committees, and wish him a successful term of office. 
In congratulating  Senator Brown  upon his election as  Chairman  of Committees, I assure him that we on this side will help him to discharge his onerous duties with satisfaction to all honorable senators, as I believe honorable senators supporting tlie Government will do also. 
I also .take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Brown  on his election as  Chairman of  Committee0 
.- I understood that this matter was to be referred to a committee which will deal with rural disabilities. If so, it may be that that procedure would be satisfactory to  Senator Aylett.  If, however, it is proposed to discuss the motion and take  a  vote on it, I desire to say that  Senator Aylett  has not stated the position accurately. As the growing and processing  of  flax is an entirely new industry in Tasmania, it is not unlikely that anomalies exist in that State. The honorable senator pointed out that some of the buildings which are being used to treat the flax are not satisfactory. In the short time which has elapsed since the industry was inaugurated in Tasmania the Government could hardly be expected to erect mills and other buildings for storing, retting and drying flax. Like many other primary products, flax is a seasonal crop. Flax ripens as do other crops, and it is then dealt with according to the methods thought to be most suitable.  Senator Aylett  said that in wet seasons the flax might be destroyed, but that is not so. 
Our trouble in Australia is that the rainfall is generally not sufficient to ret the flax. There is no danger of the flax grown in this country being destroyed by too much moisture. In outlining some of the processes through which the flax has to pass,  Senator Aylett  said that it is carted from the field to the mills, stacked at or near the mills, carted from the mills to the thresher for de-seeding and then back to the field for retting. What other procedure does the honorable senator- suggest should bc adopted? A farmer will not stack his flax on his own farm and then cart it to the mill and thresh it.. After the seed has been extracted it has to be sent to the retting fields to ret. In Victoria the flax is carted from, the field to the mill, stacked alt the mill and then threshed at the stack. When the seed has been removed the flax is carted to the field and retted by the dew process. 
At the stack. The straw is then spread out in the field and retted. I do not know what other procedure could be adopted.  Senator Aylett  has suggested that the flax should be pit-retted and treated in drying sheds. I point out that in Ireland, Belgium and other countries where flax is grown in large quantities the flax is all dried in thefields. Drying plants to process the flax would cost about £10,000 each. The flax industry is merely an experiment as far as Tasmania is concerned. F]ax production. was rushed upon the Commonwealth Government by the British Government, which has offered to buy the whole of our production at a fair price - £5 15s. for standard and a premium for that above standard - just as' it did during. the last war. Private enterprise has not developed the flax industry in Australia to the degree that one would expect because of the serious competition offered by Italian hemp. During the last war, flax was sold to the British Government at £5 a ton, but it could not meet the competition of Italian hemp, and, as the result, the production of flax in this country waned. To Tasmania, flax-growing is a new industry, but in Victoria flax has been- grown, milled and treated successfully for over 30 years.  Senator Aylett  has proposed that a joint committee of the Parliament be appointed to inquire into the whole of the ramifications of the industry. From whom, is it proposed, that the committee should take evidence? I point out to the. honorable senator that the only people in Australia competent to advise the Government in connexion with this industry are the eight experts of the Victorian Department of Agriculture, all of whom learned their business in Belgium, Ireland and other large flax-producing countries as well as Victoria. 
Not at all. In justification of the appointment of the proposed committee, the honorable senator himself said that the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture is not capable of developing the flax industry in Tasmania. 
The State Governments are responsible for growing the flax, and the Commonwealth Government, through the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and its  experts,  undertakes responsibility for processing it. The quota allotted to Victoria is 28,000 acres, and it is all taken up. Very good crops a&gt;re grown in the southern districts of the State. For 30 years the flax produced in the southern districts of Victoria has been retted, scutched and prepared so successfully that it has brought £1S0 a ton on the London market.  Senator Aylett  says that the decorticating process is a new one. That process which was evolved by a gentleman whom I happen to know simply involves the crushing of the dry, flax straw. When the dry flax straw i3 crushed, only the fibre is left. The fibre, which is not scutched or bleached, is sold on the London market at one-half the price of retted, scutched and bleached flax. The only advantage in the decorticating process is that probably it enables the flax to be dealt with speedily.  Senator Aylett  says that the flax-growing areas of Victoria and Tasmania are too damp, and that a lot of the flax is wasted, when spread out in the fields to ret. If that be so, how  does  the honorable senator account for the fact that in Belgium and Ireland, where the climate is not so favorable as the Tasmanian climate, practically the whole of the flax produced is retted in the field? As a matter of fact the heavier the dew the better the retting. .Flax- can be grown remarkably well in irrigation areas where the proper quantity of water can be applied. Unfortunately, however, our irrigation areas are not sufficiently moist to ret it. Flax grown in irrigation areas has therefore to be transported to more moist districts or, failing that, to be watered by hand, or pit retted, which is too expensive. In Victoria the Flax Fibres Limited operated two rope cordage mills until last year,  when  they were taken over and operated by the Government.  Senator Aylett  has said that these mills are inefficient. I point- out that the whole of the industry in Tasmania is in its infancy. It received a tremendous impetus when, almost at a moment's notice, the British Government asked us to endeavour to  supply  its requirements of fibre. Until recently the authorities administering the scheme for the growing of flax have not "had time to arrange proper supervisors. They have now done so. Had the officers of the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture done what the experts of the Victorian Government have advised, the flax industry in Tasmania would be in a much better position to-day. . 
They are all fully employed in advising on seeding and land preparation and sowing .the 2S,000 acres allotted to Victoria. Flax of an average length of about 27 inches produced in Victoria is sold at £5 15s. a ton. 
Yos. Many growers in the Gippsland and Colac districts  who are  growing fibre in excess of 27 inches are obtaining from £G to £7 a  tcn for  their product.  Honorable  senators  will  recall  that  some time  ago the  Government imported about 400 tons of seed from abroad  but  it arrived too late  for  planting in most of the districts in Victoria. A good deal of that seed was subsequently planted in Tasmania. There are two classes of flax seed. Sisal Crown, which - produces a lot of fibre and very little seed - and that iswhat the Govern ment is seeking to-day - and Blue Riga, which produces a lot of seed and very little fibre. The farmers in the old country sought to grow flax which yielded heavy crops of seed because of its value in the manufacture of linseed meal and linseed cake, which are used for feeding cattle. I venture to say that if, in a normal season, flax seed is planted at tlie right time, no difficulty will be experienced in growing good average length fibre, .particularly in Victoria. Last year thousands of acres of seed were sown .too late, with the result that the crop had to be harvested for seed as the fibre was of practically no value. 
I suggest to  Senator Aylett  that this matter should be referred to the committee investigating rural disabilities. Only experts can advise the Government on the manufacturing side of the industry. They comprise the manufacturers, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the eight advisors of the Victorian Government to whom I have referred. 
It is, in some instances. Generally, however, it is spread out and retted in the fields. Pit retting is too costly and it is almost- impossible to obtain the necessary labour to carry on the work. When flax is retted in the field, it is simply spread over acres of country. The retting is done automatically by the dew and exposure to rain. 
The New Zealand producers grow sisal, which reaches to a height of from S to 10 feet, and is treated by an entirely different process. . It is a coarse fibre used in the manufacture of rope and binder twine. I should say that flax could be grown in New Zealand as well as it is grown in any State of the Commonwealth. I am satisfied that, through its system of inspection, the Commonwealth is doing everything possible to assist the flax-growers. The matters referred to by  Senator Aylett  will be referred to. the inspectors who, I understand, have now been appointed by the Government. .If it be found that wastage is taking place, remedial measures will be taken by those Government appointees. I. trust that the Senate will reject the motion. 
I support the motion submitted by  Senator Aylett.  I am astounded at the speech just made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay).  First, the honorable senator told us that the processing of flax is a highly difficult operation. That is obvious; every one knows that. Then he said that the statements made by  Senator Aylett  were grossly exaggerated, but he failed to indicate in what respect overstatements had been made. The Leader of the Senate asks us to accept his estimate of the value of  Senator Aylett's  statements. It would be very convenient to have a complacent Senate, prepared to do as the honorable senator asks; but before we accept his statement, we should be informed how he justifies his claim that  Senator Aylett's  remarks were grossly exaggerated. Once again, the Leader of the Senate has indulged in his usual practice of treating this chamber in a contemptuous manner.  Senator Gibson,  on the other hand, did attempt to submit a case from his point of view. It would have been far better had the Government allowed  Senator Gibson  to secure the adjournment of the debate. Had that course been followed,  Senator Gibson  would have had an opportunity to prepare his speech on the motion before the Senate, and I feel sure that we would have had. a better explanation of the position than we have had from the Leader of the Senate. "We have been told that the industry is in the experimental stage. 
 Senator Aylett  has devoted considerable time and attention to the industry, and, as the result of his observations, he. believes that a committee should be appointed to discover exactly why better results are not being obtained. The request is perfectly legitimate, and the weight of evidence which lias been adduced in this debate supports  Senator Aylett's  case. The honorable senator's allegations of waste and inefficiency in the industry have not been refuted by the Government. In fact,  Senator Gibson  has made some damaging admissions, which strengthen  Senator Aylett's  request for an inquiry. When moving his motion,  Senator Aylett  stressed the point t'hat he wanted to make certain that this industry would be established on a permanent basis, and not merely for the duration of the war, after which it would be abandoned as so many other industries have been abandoned by anti-Labour Governments. We know that cheapness of labour is the main consideration with which such governments are concerned. If flax can be grown more cheaply in India, I can imagine this Government saying, immediately after the war is over, we must abandon this young industry and import flax. 
Before the war we were 'importing it iii considerable quantities. Indeed, one reason why the industry is now to be encouraged is because flax fibre can no longer- be obtained from abroad. When the war is over, we do not want the Government to say, as it did after the last war in respect of many primary and secondary industries, that this industry must 'be closed down, and preference given to those countries which can produce flax more cheaply than we can produce it. That danger exists in respect of many primary industries. Owing to the closing down of the shipbuilding industry we find now that we cannot build ships to meet our requirements, or even equal the output of that industry when it was previously in existence. A similar fate may be in store for the flax industry.  Senator Aylett  has emphasized that we should make certain that the industry is established on a permanent basis, and will bc enabled to carry on successfully, not only for the duration of the war, but after the war. For that reason ho wan ls to be assured that the present management of the industry is capable of running the industry successfully. As a representative of Tasmania in this chamber, ha has rightly directed attention to wastage and inefficiency on the part of the management of the industry. In the absence of any evidence from the Government to the contrary, we can only conclude that his representations arc worthy of support.  Senator Gibson  has suggested that the matter might be inquired into by one of the various committees which are now functioning. I do not know whether any of those committees is empowered to conduct such an inquiry, but in -the absence- of any direction from this Parliament, each of those committees would be within its rights in refusing to do' so. Consequently,  Senator Gibson's  suggestion is not very helpful. Our only alternative is to agree to  Senator Aylett's  motion. In any case, what has the management of the industry to fear from the proposed inquiry? 
The industry should welcome such an inquiry, particularly as it is in the experimental stage. An inquiry is also desirable, because it will be the means of procuring evidence to defeat any move which, may be made later to abandon the industry on the ground that, we cannot grow and pro'cess flax successfully in Australia, or because our costs greatly exceed those in other countries. We can well imagine such a proposal being made after the war, and the Government recommending, reluctantly, of course, that the industry be abandoned. That has happened in respect of many industries which have been placed under national control, because of the opposition of private enterprise, which is more concerned about, makingprofit* than serving the national interests. In this instance, .  Senator Aylett  is primarily concerned about the nation's interests. I hope, therefore, that his motion will be carried. . 
I commend my colleague from Tasmania for the trouble which he has taken to bring this matter to the notice of honorable senators. Tasmania is not an industrial State. When we were a?ked to grow flax in order to help in the war effort, many farmers entered wholeheartedly into the scheme; but they now find that, owing to  i . :   r  ;  i i  i  i  the unsatisfactory layout of the mills by Commonwealth officers, they cannot engage in the industry economically. I do not know the officers responsible for the planning of those mills. The farmers in Tasmania were sanguine that the industry would be established permanently, and would prove of immediate benefit in our war effort. I do not think that  Senator Gibson's  statement that the experts in Victoria could have overcome the difficulties experienced in Tasmania helps us in any way. It is evident that the experts who were sent to Tasmania by the Commonwealth were not capable of doing their job. It may be. that among the many committees now functioning, one may be able to deal with this industry. However, I still think that an inquiry into the flax industry must be held.  Senator Aylett's  statement about the difficulties of processing flax should be investigated by one of those committees. 
After listening to  Senator Aylett  when he was moving his motion, I felt that I could not let the opportunity pass to make a few observations concerning this industry. It was during my term as Minister in charge of Scientific Development that the first proposal was made to the Government for production of flax in Australia on a large scale. As  Senator Gibson  has pointed out', the growers in the southern States have been carrying on successfully for seine years. However, difficulties have been experienced in processing in this country. Eoi- that reason the British Government, sent to Australia one of the world's leading flax processers to investigate not, the growing of flax - it was convinced that we could grow it - but our methods of processing. I do not wish to reflect upon the management of any of the mills, but several gentlemen wilh whom I had confidential communications on the subject assure me that the difficulty arises mainly because the management of some of the mills is "innocently, but ignorantly. inefficient". As Minister in charge of Scientific Development, I arranged with representatives of the industry to send abroad for processing a certain quantity of flax after it had been pulled. I point out, in passing, that that  i i  m I ; i &gt;  i . ; .  is the mast economic way of harvesting  flax from the farmer's point of . view.  Senator Aylett  has made out a case for an inquiry into the industry; but I do not think that such an inquiry calls for the appointment of a select committee. Our farmers know how to grow flax. But  Senator Aylett  proposes that an inquiry be made into the growing side of the industry. That aspect has already been reported upon; and stress has been laid upon the quality of the land required for the growing of flax. The honorable senator also alleged inefficiency in the layout of some of the i mills. Our difficulties in that respect arise, probably, because of the fact that the industry is only in the experimental stage. The reason for the demand by the British Government for flax from Australia follows the decision of Russia to embark upon the production of linen. Previously, Russia, Latvia and Estonia supplied flax to the linen mills in Belfast, for which Irish production was insufficient. Now Russia will take all supplies from' Latvia and Estonia. Perhaps an inquiry is necessary, but we should hardly use a sledgehammer to crack so small a nut. The difficulty arises in regard to processing. Flax sent from Australia to mills abroad passed all tests for quality when processed, and samples were sent back to Australia. Our inability to achieve efficiency in processing, is clue partly to lack of experts. I have discussed this matter with  Senator Gibson.  I understand that among the multitude of committees to which  Senator Darcey  referred is a Rural Industries Committee which could inquire into this industry. That committee could obtain expert evidence and find ways and means to rectify the. inefficiency which has been made evident by the unsatisfactory layout of various mills. After all, that is the burden of the honorable senator's attack on the industry. The choice of retting processes is not very important. We know that different processes are followed overseas because opinion varies as to the efficiency of each process. I suggest that we should not set up a select committee to inquire into a matter of this kind when a committee capable of dealing with it is already in existence. Indeed, I know of no reason why this matter could not be referred to some branch of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 
The ordinary individual cannot grapple with the chemical intricacies of this industry. Whilst I am opposed to the appointment of a select committee, I would support the honorable senator if he amended his motion to provide that this matter be referred to the Rural Industries Committee, or some similar authority capable of assessing the value of whatever technical evidence  i3  available in this country. I sympathize with those engaged in the flax industry because of the difficulties which confront them. It is an industry which will be of extreme value to this country in the years to come. 

 .- in reply - I listened attentively to. the opposition expressed to my motion, and the most surprising feature of it is the contradictory nature of the statements made by honorable senators opposite. First, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay)  said that it was not a matter for a select committee, but rather for a body of experts, and for that reason he opposed the motion. Then,  Senator Gibson  declared that the matter was not one to be investigated by a select committee, and should be handed over to the Rural Industries. Committee.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan supported  Senator Gibson  in defiance of the statement made by the Minister.  Senator Gibson  also said .that the flax industry had been established in this country for 30 years, and that flax had been processed in Victoria and sold on the English market at £180 a. ton. Then,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that the industry was only in its experimentalstages and that flax had not been processed in Victoria, but had been sent to' England for processing. Although I. 6poke for nearly 40 minutes when moving the motion,  not one honorable senator who has opposed it has been able to point to one word in my speech which was not absolutely correct. Although honorable senators opposite claimed that I had indulged in gross exaggerations, they could not point to any portion of my speech which was an exaggeration. The reason for that is very simple. They know very well that I had stated cold facts which could not be contradicted.  Senator Gibson  claimed that, I had cast a slur on the 
Tasmanian Agricultural Department. That is entirely incorrect. If the honorable senator peruses my speech closely he will find that I did not cast a slur on that department. In fact, I repeat now what I said previously that the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture has co-operated with the Commonwealth Government, and the ' Flax Production Committee has played a wonderful part in the development of the industry. Had the Commonwealth Government and the committee done their jobs as well as that department has done its job, there would bc no need to ask for a select committee. I resent the suggestion that I cast a slur on the Tasmanian Department of Agriculture. I did not do so, nor did I reflect in any way on the departments of agriculture in any of the four flaxproducing States concerned.  Senator Gibson   referred to the decorticating machines which, he claimed, were used in a new process. I know it is a new process. The honorable senator claimed that considerable experimenting was being carried out, and I am well aware of that. But he did not say why it was necessary to have four of these machines for the experiments to be carried out by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, or why they are lying idle while the flax is dew-retting. Neither did he tell us why the man who invented this machine and carried out experiments with it is engaged in a flax mil] in Tasmania and has not been given one ' of these machines. I understand that he went through all the experimental stages with the machine and then submitted it to the Flax Production Committee. These are questions which the honorable senator did not attempt to deal with. He did, however, say that the matter was one for experts. Apparently he considers that the ordinary man has not .sufficient common sense to understand that the handling of flax ten times instead of only twice increases the cost of production. The honorable senator said that all the necessary information could be supplied by the eight experts. 
If the experts to whom the honorable senator refers were responsible for the lay-out of the mills, I have no desire to seek evidence from them, because' any man with common sense and good eyesight can see that the mills have been laid out in a very uneconomic manner. I ask  Senator Gibson,  as a farmer, if he does not realize that the costs of production are greatly increased, if any commodity is handled ten times when it is necessary to handle it only twice? Does he not appreciate that it is uneconomic to carry flax from one shed to another on motor lorries instead of having it moved by a conveyor ? If the honorable senator does not know these things we can understand why he says that the experts are .the only men from whom, advice could be obtained, and if he does know them he is merely trying to camouflage the issue. Obviously he does not know all about the industry and is trying to smother things up on behalf of some interest or other. I am. endeavouring to expose inefficiency. 
That may be. As I stated when moving the motion, I made a thorough investigation in Tasmania, and ascertained the .exact position in that State.  Senator Gibson  has informed us that there are only eight experts, and that all of them are needed in Victoria and cannot be made available to Tasmania. 
If that be so, why is it not possible for at least one of these experts to visit Tasmania and see for himself what is being done ? ' All I can say is that if the present conditions have been brough't about as a result of the advice of  experts,  then we shall have to go further in our investigations. 
In the first place I should call for the books and papers of the Flax Board and of members of the Flax Board. I should also call the  managers of the flax mills, the engineers who designed the layout of the mills and the other engineers who submitted plans, but were not given a hearing. Evidence should also be obtained from the producers themselves who are clamouring for higher prices for flax because of rising costs of production. In regard to the actual costs of the production, I should be prepared to call evidence from anybody possessing information, including even  Senator Gibson,  who claims to be the champion of champions, in this chamber, of the flax industry. 
That is the very point. The general manager of Flax Fibres Limited is not conducting the show in the interests of Australia nor as economically as it should be conducted. That is a reason why I ask for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the industry.  Senator Gibson  also spoke about the threshing of seed at the stacks and the threshing of seed in the mills in Tasmania. I am not going to tell the honorable gentleman that the flax is deseeded at the stacks in Victoria, but my statement of the position in Tasmania is correct and canbe verified by any one visiting that State. I repeat that the money now being wasted in carrying flax from thestacks to the deseeding mills, from the. deseeding mills to the retting-pits, and from the retting-pits to the dryingsheds and so on would be sufficient in one year to provide dutch barns to bold all the flax that we are processing. 
I say that it is, and I challenge anybody to prove that my statement is incorrect.  Senator Gibson  has not attemptedto prove that one word of my speech was incorrect. In his own speech he dealt merely with generalities. He estimated the cost of erecting drying shed? to dry from pit-retting at £10,000. I point out that, this industry today is worth millions of pounds if it is handled in the right way. I ask the honorable senator, if it is not worth an outlay of £10,000, why is the Flax Board building dryingsheds at the mills to dry the flax after it comes from the pits? He must be aware that that is being done. If the sheds are not required, the select committee should inquire into the matter. 
I understand that. Obviously a shed would be useless without plant, and the honorable senator is well aware of that. Today, the managers of the various mills are paying men who are supposed to have had experience in the processing of flax. Some of them told me that they have had years of experience in Victoria in the mills which the honorable senator himself has mentioned, but are prevented from doing anything on their own initiative. Previously I made representations to the Minister for Supply and Development for adequate storage space for flax, but my request was turned down. Some months afterwards, the wisdom of my representations was recognized, and more storage space was provided at some of the mills. At one mill a shed used for the storage of flax in order to keep it dry before it was taken to the deseeding plant is situated about 50 yards fromthat plant. The flax had to be loaded on a lorry to enable it to be carted from that shed a distance of 50 yards to the deseeding plant, although the storage shed could have been built at the end of the deseeding shed: As it was found that the flax became wet during loading and unloading operations, the board went to the expense of building a skillion roof to provide cover for the flax. Some ridiculous mistakes have been made in the construction of these mills, and there is every justification for an inquiry regarding the lay-out of the mills, the processing of the flax and the functions of the board. 
The Leader ofthe Senate stated that an investigation of the matters to which I have directed attention was not a job for a select committee, but he did not tell the Senate by whom these matters should be investigated. Who has a greater right to make inquiries of this kind than elected representatives in this Parliament? I ask the Minister not to belittle members of the Senate by suggesting that they have not  sufficient intelligence to carry out the necessary investigation. In view of the fact that production of flax next year is expected to be twice that of this year, and in view of the chaotic economic position, in the processing of the commodity, I claim that it is highly desirable to appoint a committee immediately. If the area under cultivation is doubled, it is probable that next year's production of flax will bc more than double that of this year, because this year's crop- was light. A committee would no doubt be able to make recommendations which would enable flax production to be placed on an economic basis as a post-war industry. 
Question put - 
 That the  motion  be agreed to. 
Will the Minister for Aircraft Production state whether the Government has yet taken any steps to produce first-line fighter aircraft in Australia? If it has not already taken action in that direction, will it do so? 
The Government will take all possible steps to produce in Australia the latest and best fighter planes in the world. It is going ahead immediately with this work. 
Can the Minister for the Interior state the date of arrival in Australia of the American oil experts, who are to make an investigation of the Lakes Entrance deposit in Victoria? 
They will arrive in Sydney from America by clipper next Saturday. In the meantime, all necessary data have been sent to Auckland, so that on the flight across the Tasman sea they may acquaint themselves with the details of the work that they have been asked to do. 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development state whether his department realizes the effect on Tasmania of the very large number of people required in South Australia to carry on war industries in that State? Many of the necessary workers will have to be drawn from other States, because only 8,000 persons suitable for the work are available in South Australia? 
Yes. 
Is the Minister  representing the Treasurer aware that in the gold-mining industry serious financial repercussions are occurring, owing to the prevailing idea that the Government intends to draw man-power from the gold-mining industry for war purposes ? 
I shall draw the attention of the Treasurer to the honorable senator's statement. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister supply the names of gentlemen whose services are used by the Government, but whose remuneration is not entirely paid by it? 
 Ishall refer that matter to the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Government set up the necessary machinery to control the marketing of blue peas? 
The Minister . for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The Tasmanian Minister of Agriculture was advised some months ago to arrange with the industry to set up the necessary organization and he indicated his intention to doso. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice - 
When a man has served for a period in the Royal Australian Air Force and falls sick,  through no fault of his own, and is discharged - does he receive any pay or pension to tide him over a period of unemployment that may follow his discharge? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answer :  - 
A pension may be paid under the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act, if an airman's disability is directly attributable to his employment as a member of the Royal Australian Air Force, provided that his incapacity is not due to his own fault or any breach of discipline. In othercases no payments are allowable unless the airman had been on active service outside Australia. If an airman after service outside Australia is discharged for medical reasons and is unemployed, he may apply to the Repatriation Commission for sustenance payments. 
asked the Minis ter for Munitions,  upon notice - 
How many 3.20 anti-aircraft cradle mountings (manganese bronze castings), if any, have, been supplied to the Defence Department by W.O. Adams, Queensberry-street, Melbourne, Victoria, since the firm in question has been provided with the pattern for same? 
What is the totalsum of money, if any, that has been paid to the firm for making preparations to provide such castings and/or . for the castings themselves? 
How many steel castings for heavy 24-ton tanks have been supplied to the Defence Department by Charles Ruwolt Proprietary Limited, Victoria-street, Richmond, Victoria, since the firm in question has been provided with the patterns forsame? 
How many machine tools have been obtained from the various technical colleges in Victoria direct for the use of the Defence Department? 
How many have been obtained which were consigned to technical colleges, but which have not been delivered? 
Where are such machines located? 
Are all such machines being used for defence work? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
W.O. Adams, Queensberry-street, Melbourne, are sub-contractors for Crossle Duff, major contractors. Two cradle manganese bronze castings have been supplied. 
£159 10s. 
No castings in connexion with a 24-ton tank have been requisitioned. Experimental work is being carriedout by Chas. Ruwolt on the hull and turret castings for an 18-ton tank. Two castings have been made. 4.Eleven. 
Ten. 
1 boring machine. Giddings and Lewis - Chas. Ruwolt Proprietary Limited: 1 boring machine, Giddings and Lewis - Mauri Bros, and Thompson Limited; 2 grinding machines, 
Cincinnati - Cheltenham tool-room; 1 milling machine, Cincinnati -  C.  Telford Smith; 1 milling machine, Cincinnati - Sonnerdale Proprietary Limited; 2 grinding machines, Brown and Sharpe - Johns and Waygood Limited; 1 ggrinding machine, Brown and Sharpe - O rdnance Factory, Maribyrnong; 1 grinding machine, Brown and Sharpe - Sydney Williams and Company Proprietary Limited; 1 grinding machine, Brown and Sharpe - Cook and Williains Proprietary Limited; 1 grinding machine, Brown and Sharpe - Nilsen Cromie Proprietary Limited; 1 grinding machine, Brown and Sharpe - Sutton Tool and Gauge Proprietary Limited; 1 grinding, machine, Brown and Sharpe - -South Australian Railways tool-room; 2 shaping machines, Smith and Mills- Colonial Sugar Refining Company; 1 shaping machine, Smith and Mills - Perry Engineering Proprietary Limited; 1 shaping machine. Smith and Mills - J. N. Kirby; 1 planing machine, Cincinnati - Quality Engineering and Manufacturing Company Proprietary Limited ; 1 planing machine, Cincinnati - Chas. Ruwolt Proprietary Limited; 1 planing machine, Cincinnati - A.G. Healings Limited. 
Yes. 
On Thursday last, 
. -by  leave  - Some time ago,  Senator Brown  asked if I could give to the Senate a brief outline of the functions and activities of the 
Department of Information. In accordance with that request, and in view of recent criticisms of the department, I welcome this opportunity to do so. I shall not take advantage of the occasion to enter into a political discussion. 
Honorable senators are probably aware that the publicity censorship is under 
Khe  control of the Department of Information. In order that press cables and statements may be bandied with the least possible delay it is necessary to maintain in each State a 24-hour censorship service. Despite what is sometimes said to the contrary, it is the desire of the censorship authorities to give the fullest possible assistance to the press, and to make available the maximum quantity of information compatible with national security. All matters intended for publication are supposed to be handed in to the censors, but in practice that is not always done because of the existence of an honour system.  Representatives  of the press are told from time to time which matters are to be kept out of the columns of their newspapers and, with rare exceptions, the honour system has worked entirely satisfactorily. In addition to maintaining a continuous censorship service in each State, it is necessary to have in Melbourne a chief publicity censor and his staff to deal with matters in dispute between newspaper proprietors and the censorship, or between department and department. Only when there is a deadlock is a matter referred to the Minister for his final determination. 
I mentioned a few days ago that all government advertising, other than what may be termed routine advertising, is now under the control of the Department of Information. 
It is difficult to say, because the quantity of advertising depends on such things as the flotation of loans, recruiting campaigns, the need for tradesmen for the Air Force, or for additional recruits for the Navy. 
The charge may, in the first place, be made against the vote for the Department of Information; hut for work carried out on behalf of other departments, a transfer is made later. The department under my control carries the overhead costs of advertising, but  the  amount is small. The long overdue policy of concentrating government advertising under one control has enabled the Government to secure better rates than when each department controlled its own advertising. The Government now hae the advantage of the commercial master contract rates. In addition to advertising recruiting campaigns and such matters, the Department of Information supplies posters, and arranges for radio appeals for recruits, and for window displays aimed at encouraging the sale of war saving certificates and war bonds, and so on. Moreover, it has full control of al), short-wave broadcasting from Australia. For eight hours every day speeches and other items of information are broadcast on the short-wave  system  in the English, Spanish, French and Dutch languages. Until recently, the Government used the 10-kilowatt station of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Limited, at Sydney, but now it has the use of two stations under the control of the  Postmaster-General's  Department. Honorable senators will remember that I announced yesterday that the Government bad decided to build  ia  3-frequency 100- kilowatt station so that it could engage in short-wave 'broadcasting over greater distances. Obviously a station with a power of only 10 kilowatts has a limited range. Our programmes must be capable of being heard in other countries without difficulty, otherwise foreign listeners will not bother to listen to them. Steps have been taken by the Government to establish a short-wave station of 50 kilowatts. No difficulty is anticipated in securing the necessary apparatus for this station. In order that the voice of Australia may be heard in all parts of the world, it is hoped that ultimately the power of the station will be increased to 100 kilowatts. It is highly desirable that in times like these the voice of Australia should be capable of being heard throughout the world, in exactly the same way as we, in Australia, are able to listen in to short-wave broadcasts from -other countries. In addition, the broadcasting  section monitors foreign short-wave transmissions from a twenty-four hours  a  day listening post. Daily and weekly reports of all incoming transmissions are prepared for background information for the press and for radio purposes. That section also arranges hook-ups with American networks to relay Australian news. Land-lines are provided nightly  to  one-third of the commercial stations  to  enable the national news to he broadcast in country centres. Certain districts  of  Australia cannot be reached by the Aclass stations at present, and the department pays the cost of land-line connexion to B-class stations in order that listeners in those areas may be provided with  a  good news service. 
No, the new shortwave stations will probably " skip " them. They are not provided for that purpose. Originally, when the first short-wave station was established, its purpose was to supply news bulletins and programmes to people in outback areas; but the function of the new short-wave stations is to broadcast the voice of Australia to the world. The department also supplies every Sunday night a special quarter of an hour session dealing with the war  to  94 commercial stations. In this way news of national importance reaches a large number of people. The programme time is made available by these stations free of cost to the department. The broadcasting section also supplies scripts for radio commentators and daily broadcasts in tho women's sessions. Recently the Department of Information took over from the Department of Commerce the administration of the Commonwealth Cinema Branch. That branch produces war. shorts and gazettes for exhibition, not only in Australia, but also overseas, and, in addition, training films for the service departments. As honorable senators are probably aware, the branch also maintains two cinema units with the Australian Imperial Force abroad. After the films have been exposed overseas, they are  brought to  Australia, developed, suitably reconstructed and distributed to picture theatres for exhibition. Copies are also sent overseas. Copies of the first Aus tralian war film, depicting .the capture  of  Tobruk, were sent to the Netherlands East Indies, Malaya, China, Thailand, and the United States of America, and served a very useful purpose in bringing prominently before the eyes  of  people  of  other countries the exploits of our Australian soldiers. We have had requests for more films of that kind to be sent overseas. In addition, the department makes available to the State governments and to charitable bodies 60 mm. educational films. In this way, not only do we assist charitable organizations, but we also engage in very valuable propaganda work. The department sponsored the "March of Time " film made in Australia by  Mr. Jurgens.  That film has been exhibited throughout the length and breadth of the world. The department also maintains photographic units to record the embarkation and return of our troops and their doings abroad. Copies of these photographs are provided for the press and other journals. This is quite an important feature of the work of the department. On the editorial side, there is  a  regular daily supply of editorial items to the press. These items have not been largely utilized by the metropolitan press, because they already have ample means at their disposal for gleaning and publishing news; but this service has been freely availed of by the country press.  Resumes  of the war position from day to day are regarded as of great value by the provincial press. The department is also responsible for the expense of maintaining the official war correspondents in the field. During the last war, this expense - and it was very considerable - was borne by the Defence Department. Now, the whole cost is charged against the vote of the Department of Information. We prepare material for release to 700 newspapers and 1,200 other publications in Australia, and make available press articles on behalf of patriotic organizations. We distribute pamphlets and posters compiled locally and in conjunction with the British Ministry of Information. We also supply an Air Mail Weekly News Letter to the Australian Imperial Force abroad, and news for short daily transmissions to Australian troops in Malaya, as well as a weekly  cable of Australian news to members of the Royal Australian Navy on ships with which we are able to get into touch, members of the Australian Imperial Force wherever they are located, and the members of the Royal Australian Air Force in Great Uri tain. We dispatch daily to the United States of America an Australian news summary. The department maintains a news bureau in New York which is serving news agencies throughout that country. That bureau is supplied with  services  by the pictorial and editorial branches of the department. A check-up on the activities of the bureau reveals that Australian news is receiving very wide publicity in the press of the United States of America. That bureau was established only sis months ago, but already it, is doing an extraordinarily good job in publicizing Australia in that country, with which it is the desire of Australians as a whole to establish closer relations. Regular checks are made by the bureau upon the space given to Australian items in American newspapers. 
The department also maintains various artists who are attached to different arms of the services. In the last war this expenditure was charged in the first place to the Army, but later such artists were attached, I think, to the War Memorial Committee. At present, we have two artists attached to our forces in the Middle Ea3t and one artist at sea with the Royal Australian Navy, as well as a number of official photographers who are making photographic and painting records of the activities of our troops abroad. When the War Memorial in Canberra is opened on the 11th November next, our people will have an opportunity to view the wonderful collection of pictures produced during the last war. All of these are from the brushes of famous Australian artists. Other well-known Australian artists are attached to our forces in order to perpetuate on canvas the activities of our troops in this war. 
I have made these remarks in answer to criticism which has been levelled at the department from time to time, particularly in relation to its cost, by people who are not fully acquainted with its various activities. This brief  resume  of the duties falling upon myself as Minister for Information, and the officers of the department, who are doing exceptionally good work, should do much to refute that criticism. It will also make honorable senators generally more acquainted with the work of the department. 
Has the Minister anything to say regarding the changes in the department which he recently forecast? 
 by leave -  I intimate to the Senate that  Senator H.  V. Keane has been elected  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. 
.- The Government is opposed to the motion. SenatorFraser proposes that a joint committee of the Parliament be appointed to inquire into all matters relating to the manufacture and sale of superphosphate. I cannot understand what facts the honorable senator desires to discover which would necessitate the holding of such an inquiry. I realize his anxiety concerning the price of superphosphate. Every one knows that it has been increased.For that reason the honorable senator is genuinely anxious to protect the interests of the primary producers, particularly in Western Australia, who regard the high price of superphosphate as a very heavy tax. However, the honorable senator simply proposes that an inquiry be held into the sale and manufacture of superphosphate. No facts could be disclosed by . such an inquiry which are not already known to all honorable senators. In addition, investigations into the industry have been made by the Tariff Board and by the Prices Commissioner. Indeed, the latter is conducting daily an audit of the price of superphosphate. Therefore, all of the facts which enter into the matter are now known. In the language of the famous country from whose stock both he and I are descended, I remind the honorable senator that " Facts are chiels that winna ding and downa be disputed ". That is something which probably only  Senator Fraser  and I understand. I shall endeavour to give all of the facts, or at least the most important relating to superphosphate. In the past,' the average quantity of superphosphate manufactured in Australia annually has been approximately 1,000,000 tons. This year, owing to depleted supplies of rock phosphate, it is expected that the tonnage used will not exceed 600,000, or a reduction of 40 per cent. The pre-war price of superphosphate was about £3 10s. a ton. For various reasons there was a variation of a shilling or two in the different States. Since then the price has increased by 24s. a ton in the eastern States and by 26s. a ton in Western Australia and the Eyre Peninsula. That has been due to reasons which already have been plainly stated. First, it has been due to the increase of 13s. a ton in the price of rock phosphate. 
Yes, the cost of phosphate rock landed from Nauru and Ocean Island. 
The phosphate rock supplied by the British Phosphate Commission, on which Australia is represented, is supplied to each State of the Commonwealth at the same price. As I have said, the landed cost has increased by 13s. ' since the outbreak of war. Sulphur costs have risen by 3s. 6d. a ton, the price of bags by 4s. a dozen, and the manufacturing costs have advanced about 5s. a ton. Those increases make a total of 25s. 6d. a ton. Some explanation of the various items may be necessary, but I point out to honorable senators that this matter has been fully investigated and is always under review by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner with a view to ensuring not only that profit is kept to the standard existing before the war, but also that that standard should, if possible, be reduced. 
The price of rock phosphate landed in Australia has risen from 29s. 6d. a ton to 52s. a ton. Fiveeighths of a ton of rock phosphate will produce one ton of superphosphate, the balance being made up of sulphuric acid and other chemicals. 
That is so. Enemy action considerably damaged loading facilities at Nauru, but the increase has been due mainly to higher shipping freights and war risk insurance premiums. 
The pre-war price of hags was 6s. a dozen and they are now 10s. a dozen. The pre-war price of sulphur in Australia was £6 a ton, but it is now £14 a ton. Honorable senators will recall that a bounty has been paid on the production of sulphur from pyrites and zinc concentrates. That bounty was to cease so soon as the price of imported sulphur increased to £7 7s. a ton. As the price is now £14 a ton, the bounty is no longer payable. In all the eastern States, with the exception of factories at Geelong, in Victoria, and in one' small place in South Australia, Australian pyrites and zinc concentrates are used to produce sulphur, but Western Australia and Eyre Peninsula have always had to depend on imported sulphur. Owing to the large increase that has taken place in the price of imported sulphur, the Government has under consideration a bounty system which will stabilize the price in such a way that all States will receive superphosphate at the same figure. In view of that fact alone,  Senator Fraser  should be satisfied with the Government's action, and the same should apply to  Senator Johnston,  who is equally interested in the position that has arisen because of the marked increase of the price of superphosphate. Under the bounty scheme formerly in operation, the Government paid out approximately £87,000 in one year. It will be appreciated that I have given the only facts which could be obtained by a committee such as that proposed by  Senator Fraser.  We might just as well set up a committee to find out how many letters there are in the alphabet. The facts which I have related are plain enough for every body to understand. 
Yes. The Tariff Board conducted an exhaustive inquiry into the superphosphate industry, and the Customs Department, with its price-fixing machinery, has also fully investigated the matter. It seems to me and to the Government that an inquiry by a Parliamentary Select Committee would be quite useless, because it could not reveal anything that every body does not already know. What will be the future of this industry, which is of vital importance to Australia, no one can say, but it is generally believed that owing to the disruption caused to shipping facilities at Nauru, increased war risks, higher shipping freights, and the scarcity of shipping space, the price will probably be higher in the future. I can only assure the Senate that the Government will make every endeavour to see that superphosphate is supplied to the primary producers of Australia at the lowest possible price, thus enabling them to keep production at the highest level. Although I sympathize with  Senator Fraser  and other honorable senators in their desire to see that the price of superphosphate is kept as low as possible, I cannot understand of what use such a committee a3 that asked for would be. Anybody' not interested in this matter would say that, from a business point of view, the facts are plain to every body, and that no useful result could be obtained from such an inquiry while another body is actively carrying on an investigation. For that reason alone the Government opposes the motion, and asks the Senate to reject it. 
.- One must compliment  Senator Fraser  upon bringing this matter forward, because an adequate supply of superphosphate is necessary for the production of cereals and for the topdressing of pastoral  properties. It seems to me that judging by the present position with regard to superphosphate, and the statement by the Minister  (Senator Leckie),  there is every possibility of superphosphate being rationed throughout Australia. Such action would probably solve some of the difficulties of the Government with regard to the wheat industry, because less wheat would be produced. Many areas throughout Australia, cannot produce wheat without superphosphate, and I have no doubt that that is the position in many areas in Western Australia. I am inclined to think that the figures supplied to the Minister are wrong.  His  remark that the annual output of superphosphate in Australia is 1,000,000 tons is probably correct, but he also said that five-eighths of a ton of phosphatic rock is required for the manufacture of one ton of superphosphate. If that were so, 625,000 tons of rock would be required annually and 375,000 tons of sulphur or sulphuric acid would be added to that rock. 
That is how the Minister's figures work out. The phosphatic rock obtained from Nauru is 22 per cent, pure, and so is the superphosphate supplied to the farming community. Nothing is added to the rock except sulphuric acid to make it available for plant life. I believe that  Senator Fraser  also made a mistake. As the Minister rightly pointed out, the motion limits the proposed inquiry to the manufacture and sale of superphospate.  His doubts in that regard could easily be got over, because if he examined the balancesheets of the co-operative companies engaged in handling the rock, he would find that no profit is being made by them. If he happens to be a shareholder of one of these companies, he will get a substantial rebate, which reduces the cost of his superphosphate to a much lower price than that quoted by the Minister. 
To my mind, the difficulty will be to obtain phosphate rock from Nauru. Shortly after the outbreak of the war, owing to enemy action, the cantilever machinery for loading the rock from the island to the ship was destroyed. The plant was installed on a precipitous coast where vessels could go alongside in 600 fathoms of water, but before the cantilever system was installed, the rock had to be carried by baskets and barges and hand-loaded. 'Severe tropical storms had to be contended with at times, and a vessel always had to be in readiness to leave at a moment's notice, often with only half a load of the rock. It then proceeded to Ocean Island to complete its load with rock of a much lower quality than that obtainable at Nauru. The system in operation at Nauru, which was destroyed, made it possible for a vessel to complete its loading in one or two days, the system of loading being similar to that adopted at the wheat silos at Sydney and Geelong. Owing to the increased demand to-day for phosphatic rock, it has been found impossible to load about 1,000,000 tons of rock annually by hand. Therefore, independent of shipping or other considerations, it seems that until repairs are effected to the cantilever plant at 
Nauru Island, the supply of phosphate will have to be rationed. I consider that  Senator Fraser's  fears could be removed by the simple process of examining the balance-sheet of the Australian Phosphate Company, whose works are situated at Geelong, which has been the means of keeping the price of superphosphate at a reasonable level. I am sure that the prices charged by other companies would have been higher but for the operations of the Australian Phosphate Company. I suggest that all of the information desired by  Senator Fraser  is available without much effort. Australia gets 42 per cent, of the phosphatic rock that comes from Nauru, and is also interested in the deposits on Ocean Island. The balance of the output of Nauru is obtained by Great Britain and New Zealand. But Great Britain is able to get supplies from other sources on a more economical basis than from Nauru and Ocean Island. I agree with the Minister that it is unnecessary to appoint a committee to investigate this matter. 
I am surprised at the statement by  Senator Gibson  that the shortage of superphosphate will help to solve the problems associated with the wheat industry. In my opinion, the affairs of that industry have been sadly mismanaged. Millions of people are starving in Europe, and probably scores of million* will starve next year. The policy of Australia, should be to grow as much wheat as possible, and store it in silos. I understand that scores of millions of bushels of wheat could be stored in airtight silos without deterioration. There seems to be a wrong conception of Australia's duty towards the people of other countries. It has been well said that without vision we perish, and I regret that the policy of the Government is to restrict wheat production. 
I support the motion, and endorse the views expressed by my colleague,  Senator Fraser.  The Government of Western Australia has appealed on many occasions for reductions of the price of superphosphate, but those appeals have been of no avail. Farmers in Western Australia have been driven off the land as the result of the increasing cost of superphosphate, and a further increase of the price would cause more producers to leave their holdings, with the result that unemployment would be increased. A committee such as that proposed to be appointed could investigate the possibility of finding phosphatic rock in Australia. This country should produce wheat for people throughout the world. The time has come when Australia should look to its responsibilities in that direction, because, particularly after the war, the demand for wheat will be abnormally heavy. 
I hope that this motion will be agreed to. The inquiry suggested by  Senator Fraser  would cover a very wide field. The honorable senator is in practically a similar position to that in which I found myself yesterday with regard to the flax industry. Certain information has been given to him in confidence, and he cannot disclose it. He has told us that the price of superphosphate has been raised several times since the Prices Commissioner has taken a hand in this matter, but the Minister  (Senator Leckie)  did not refer to the profits made in the manufacture and sale of superphosphate. 
If there were no profit, there would be no superphosphate. 
I have bought it, and at prices representing increases of 5s., 10s., and 15s. a ton respectively. If this commodity could be sold at a profit when the price was increased by 5s. a ton, was not profit made when the price was further increased by 10s., and later by 15s. a ton? "What will be the position of the rural producers if these increases continue, in view of the fact that they have already experienced several reductions of the prices of their products. The Minister dealt extensively with the increasing cost of commodities that had brought about the increase of the cost of superphosphate, but has the Prices Co]n.missioner gone carefully into rises and falls of the cost of the commodities used in the production of superphosphate?  Senator Fraser  desires a committee appointed to make an inquiry into the whole matter, in order to ascertain whether superphosphate could be delivered to the primary producers at a cheaper rate than that now paid by them. I do not doubt that  Senator Fraser  had in mind certain information which an inquiry by a committee would bring to light. The Minister said that  Senator Fraser  had not proved that the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner had been wrong in fixing the price of any commodity. It is not necessary to prove that I know Professor Copland, and I regard him as a man who would not intentionally do anything wrong; but that is not to say that he has explored every possible avenue, or is incapable of making a mistake. First, he permitted an increase of 10s. a ton, and later, a further increase of £1 a ton. Still later, he reduced the price by 4s. a ton, but he offered no explanation of his action. It is possible that he made a mistake on one or more of those occasions. Certainly, there are grounds for doubt as to whether all of the information on which he acted was authentic. If the Government cannot see its way clear to appoint a committee to undertake a thorough investigation, I suggest that it should follow the method which has been adopted by the Government of New Zealand, and pay to the farmers the difference between the pre-war price of superphosphate and the present price. 
I shall not discuss that point now, but I ask the Minister what it will cost the country if two-thirds of its wheat-growers are driven off their holdings ? 
The Minister knows that the price of superphosphate has increased and that wages are rising. It may be that he has in mind the employment of members of the Girls Land Army at 7s. 6d. a week. 
I do not ask  that  that be done, because, at a meeting of the Tasmanian Producers Association, in reply to a question as to whether members of the Girls Land Army would be paid at rates comparable with those paid  to  girls in munition factories or in domestic service, the lady who is in charge of the Girls Land Army in Tasmania answered : " No ; they will be paid 7s. 6d. lor the first week, and after a month their wages may rise to a maximum of £1  a  week, plus their keep ". If the Minister proposes to supply farmers with that kind of cheap labour, and assuming that  a  woman on a farm can do the work of  a  man, the farmers may be able to carry on, despite the increased cost of superphosphate. I assure the Minister, however, that he will not get that cheap labour. 
The cost of labour, as well as the cost of superphosphate, bags, machinery, and other farm requisites, has risen, whereas the price received for farm produce  has  fallen. 
I am aware of that. When the Minister talks of equality of sacrifice, he does not appear to know that there is a war on.  Senator Fraser  objects to a heavier burden being placed on that section of the community which is already suffering great hardships as  a  result of the war. He claims that the appointment of a select committee may reveal ways by which the burden on the primary producer can be lightened. I hope that the Senate will agree to the motion, because an investigation may lead to a reduction of the price of this very necessary commodity. 
The motion before the Senate raises the question of price fixation. I shall support the motion because it provides that  a  select committee be appointed to go into the whole question of the price of superphosphate. 
It is all a matter of interpretation. I am placing my own interpretation on the motion, and am not accepting the honorable senator's interpretation. The Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)   said that we know all of the facts. I join issue with him there, because, after listening to the Minister and  Senator Gibson,  it is obvious that they do not know all of the facts. Further facts are ascertainable. 
In any references which I may make to the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner I wish it to be clearly understood that I do not reflect on him personally. I regard that officer as one who fixes prices in accordance with instructions received, and not as  a  free agent. Consequently, I do not hold him responsible for the policy which he carries out. I say this now because my remarks on  a  previous occasion were construed to be adverse criticism of the Prices Commissioner. I assume that that officer operates on the basis of passing on increased charges to the consumer. 
It is possible that the capital charges and overhead charges are capable of reduction. Into these aspects of increased costs there should be a full inquiry. It is not a sufficient reason for raising the price of any commodity to say that the price of this and that has increased, and therefore the increased cost must be passed on to the consumer. As honorable senators opposite have said that no profit is made in this industry I draw attention to the report of the Tariff Board which went exhaustively into this subject in 1929. On page 17 of its report, the Tariff Board stated - 

 A summary of the results obtained ls shown in the following compilation: - 

<graphic href="167332194107024_9_0.jpg"></graphic>

Although the average profit is shown as 12.9 per cent, on the capital employed, this figure is understated for the following reasons : - 
The profits on which this percentage is based are derived solely from fertilizers, although in some cases portion of the capital is used in the production of industrial chemicals. 
The profits include large amounts representing interest on outstanding accounts. It was shown in evidence that the interest charges range from 5 per cent, to 10 per cent, per annum, hence the profit represented by manufacture and sale must be well over the 12.!) per cent, shown in Table " L- ". 
The output from the factories whose particulars are included in this table totalled 345,510 tons, and the profit per ton on sales was 13s. 2d. A reduction of approximately 3s. in price would have reduced the profits to 10 per cent., providing the output remained the same, and a reduction of 5s. per ton would have made, the profits approximately 8 per cent, on the same tonnage. 
The companies referred to in the report are those which supplied balance-sheets to the Tariff Board. I have quoted from the report of that body. 
The honorable senator said that no profits were made in the manufacture of superphosphate, but if the figures in the report of the Tariff Board be correct the investigation carried out by that body proved otherwise. 
It was issued in 1929. 
The report points out that the profits are greater than those shown by the companies. In September, 1929,  Mr. John  Gunn, who at the time was Director of Development, directed attention to the huge amount of the debts owing by farmers to various companies.  Mr. Gunn  reported that the unpaid debts of farmers due to the companies amounted to £2,000,000. Apparently they can afford to lose £2,000,000 in bad debts, and still show high profits. From that point of view, it is evident that this is a highly profitable industry. 
. This industry made high profits in 1932. Since then, its output has increased. We are justified in assuming that its profits have increased proportionately. The minority report of the Tariff Board, at page 33, stated :  - 
One of the most unsatisfactory phases of the fertilizer industry in Australia has been the high cost of mixed fertilizers. This has been particularly true in Queensland, where all the ingredients except organic nitrogen for mixed fertilizers are either imported from overseas or obtained from the other States. To the consequent high prices has been added the high charge of £1 per ton for mixing. The prices of the resultant mixtures have been so high as to greatly discourage their use, and production has thus been retarded. This is now being recognized, and although we have no record of the actual reduction in cost of mixed fertilizers, we understand that the prices are being lowered. 
According to the minority report, every advantage was taken at that time to increase prices with the object of increasing profits. To date it can be assumed that from 1929 to 1932 the position of the industry has improved as the result of the increased use of superphosphate and, incidentally, that the profits of the manufacturers have increased proportionately. A large portion of those profits have been capitalized. I think that  Senator Gibson  made some reference to the capitalization of profits although he did not actually use those words. When the Prices Commissioner investigated- this matter, he was shown where increased costs were incurred. The Commissioner and the Government have yet to inform us to what degree, if any, they have investigated capital charges and unnecessary overhead charges. 
If that be so they have never informed us of all of the facts. The Minister says that all the facts are known. I say that all the facts in connexion with capital charges and unnecessary overhead charges are not known to the members of this Senate and I doubt very much indeed whether they are known to the Prices Commissioner or even to the Government itself. 
That is true, but he did not go into the matter as thoroughly as the Tariff Board. Under cover of the war, production is being restricted. 
By the demand and possibly by the Government's action in reducing the acreage on which wheat may be sown. Production will no doubt be restricted if the Government adopts the policy of rationing superphosphate. The point is that, whatever happens, the profits of the manufacturers of superphosphate are not being reduced. If superphosphate be rationed and wheatgrowers are not able to cultivate their land as they have done hitherto, they will, for all practical purposes, be driven off their land. If that be done do the Minister and  Senator Gibson  propose to provide other opportunities for displaced wheat-growers to earn a livelihood for themselves and their families? 
I view the position with a good deal of alarm, and I am challenging it now so that it cannot be said after the war is over that honorable senators on this side of the chamber acquiesced in the Government's policy or, not knowing what waa going on, failed to rise in protest. 
The motion provides for the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into the whole of the ramifications of the industry with the object of assisting farmers to obtain their requirements of superphosphate. To-day, as the result of the increased profits made by the manufacturers, farmers cannot obtain the superphosphate they require. The Minister would leave the position as it is and say that it is irrelevant for honorable senators to deal with the position of those who will be penalized. I maintain that a discussion of the effects of the high price of superphosphate is relevant to the motion. I go farther, and say that it is a major issue. 
The motion asks for the appointment of a joint select committee of the Parliament to inquire into and report upon all matters related to the manufacture and sale of superphosphate in Australia. The wording of the motion is all-embracing. It refers to " all matters " which includes the displacement of wheat-growers from their land because of their inability to purchase superphosphate. It could not have been, worded in clearer or more convincing language. It proposes a thorough and all-embracing inquiry into the manufacture and sale of superphosphate, and the way in which farmers will be affected by the high price of superphosphate. 
It reads, " All matters related to the manufacture and sale of superphosphate ". 
That is so ; but his dialectic acrobatics will not influence me. It has been estimated by  Senator Fraser  - and he has based his estimate on the best of information obtained from Western Australia - that, if the increased price of superphosphate has to be paid, the added burden on wheat-growers in Western Australia will be between £360,000 and £400,000. We know perfectly well that before the price was increased the position of the farmers was desperate. That has been admitted by the Government over and over again and by the best authorities on the subject. It follows that if this additional burden be imposed, their position will become even more desperate. Then we may have rationing of superphosphate, which means that an increased number of farmers will be either starved off or driven off their land. That, in turn, means that those wheat-farmers who possess the largest areas will have a monopoly of wheat-growing. What will happen in Australia if that be done is what has already happened in the United 
States of America. There we find that, for all practical purposes, primary production has been monopolized practically 100 per cent. Freehold farmers, sharefarmers, tenant farmers and individual farmers do not exist to anything like the degree that they did before this monopolization of industry took place. Millions of them to-day now constitute a permanent army of unemployed with nowhere to go and no means of earning a livelihood. They depend solely upon the charity of the Government in order to live and bring up their families. That state of affairs has arisen in the United States of America as the result of the very policy which this Government has adopted. It is a policy to restrict the growing of wheat, rationing, and other ingenius and insidious devices adopted for the purpose of driving the smaller man off the land and concentrating control and ownership in the hands of a few monopolists who, in most cases, are financial institutions. "When this has been achieved the whole of the industry is mechanized, and fewer men with uptodate methods are able to operate large areas that formerly supported thousands of small families. Yet the Minister is satisfied and says that nothing should be done to interfere with the Government's policy. He claims that all the facts are known and that we, too, should be satisfied. We would be remiss in our duty if we did not point out these things. The time is overdue, I submit, for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into this industry. In fact, if the Government were prepared to take the action it should take, it should not have to wait for a select committee to say how this question should be settled. It should take immediate action to ensure that all our primary producers are at least given an opportunity to earn a decent livelihood. It is well within the realm of practical politics. The Government, however, has refused to take action along those lines. It proposes wherever possible to raise barriers in order to prevent anything from being done for the relief of the wheat-growers. In view of the facts we already know - and we do not know all of the facts - and in view of the way in which the war is being used as a cover *in order to maintain increased profits at the expense of the farmer, a select committee should be appointed to inquire into the industry. We must also bear in mind that the farmer is obliged to sell his product at the minimum price, whilst he is compelled to buy superphosphate at the maximum price. Such a committee could, go into the matter even more thoroughly than did the Director of Development in 1932 and the Tariff Board in 1929. We are expected to rely upon what the Prices Commissioner has told us. I have no intention of reflecting upon that gentleman, but I remind honorable senators that the Commissioner is responsible to the Government. He is a Government servant, and carries out the Government's policy ; but a parliamentary select committee i3 under no obligation to the Government, particularly when it includes members drawn from this side of the chamber. The only obligation we recognize is our direct obligation to the farmers, who will be victimized by any increase of the price of superphosphate. How can we reasonably be expected to accept what the Commissioner says, or even what the Governmentsays in view of its policy of private monopolist ownership of primary production? Briefly, that is the policy of this Government. 
They are cooperative in name. Real co-operation cannot be achieved when farmers are hamstrung. Farmers, or any other section of the community, can co-operate only within the limits of the present economic system. Men 011 the basic wage may co-operate for the purpose of purchasing bread and meat, but their cooperation is restricted by their purchasing power. That is not co-operation in the broad sense of the word, which itself is used merely to camouflage the real position, and to mislead people who do not know better. Nobody knows better than  Senator .Johnston  the restrictions and obstacles that are placed in the way of the primary producers of Western Australia. They can co-operate as much as they like, but until they co-operate to change the Government and its policy they will not get very far under existing conditions. All that their present cooperation will do will be to prolong the agony.- So long as I have an opportunity to protest against this iniquitous and infamous method of driving men off the land, and depriving them of their livelihood under the cover of war and patriotism, I shall protest as strenuously as I am doing now, and even more vigorously in future. 
, - I commend  Senator Fraser  for having brought this motion forward, because the price of superphosphate is now a burning question among primary producers in Western Australia. But the best way to deal with this matter is not by appointing a parliamentary select committee to inquire into the sale and manufacture of superphosphate. We shall not be able to secure relief for the producers by following that course. Yet the farmers in Western Australia need help immediately, because the price of superphosphate in that State has been increased from £3 12s. 6d. to £4 18s. 6d. a ton with the approval of the Prices Commissioner, who has carefully scrutinized the cost of production. Had this motion been proposed a few weeks ago, I should have been very tempted to support it. However, within the last ten days the Government has appointed over 50 members of this Parliament to act on special committees, including one whose duty it will be to inquire into all matters affecting rural industries. Therefore, I hesitate to support the appointment of another parliamentary select committee to cover once again the inquiries made by the Prices Commissioner. The farmers need relief, not only because of the increase of price by 26s. a ton, but also because in Western Australia, and, I think, in the other States also, a further increase of from 35s. to £2 a ton is now forecast, owing to the difficulty of securing phosphate rock from Nauru and Ocean Island, and the scarcity of shipping. For those reasons it is said, not only will the- price be increased, but supplies will be rationed as well. Consequently, a serious outlook confronts the farmers, particularly in Western Australia and South Australia, where much settlement in light soil areas would not have been possible but for the application of phosphates. We must give relief to these farmers very soon. I think that relief will be obtained by political action. We must insist that this Government give to these farmers consideration equal to that given by the Labour Government of New Zealand  to  farmers in that dominion. A few days ago, I asked a question on this matter, which evoked the admission that the Government of New Zealand was carrying the whole of the increase of the price of superphosphate imposed since the outbreak of war. Thi« Government includes one section which is pledged to look after the interests of the men on the land who are the main users of superphosphate. It is up to the Country party in this Parliament, therefore, to insist that this Government should show at least the same consideration of the needs of primary producers in this matter as has been displayed by the Government of our sister dominion. I am prepared to play my part in that direction, and to join in any action that will have the result of securing this relief. Thanks to action taken by their Government, the primary producers in New Zealand are still paying only the pre-war price for this necessary commodity. 
I should like to say a word about the: history of this motion. It is said that great men think alike. The honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Marwick)  gave notice of a similar motion in the House of Representatives a day or two before  Senator Fraser  gave notice of the motion we are now discussing. To-day, I received a note from that honorable member, stating that he had withdrawn his motion in the House of Representatives, in view of the appointment of the numerous committees to which I have referred, and also because of the fact that the Western Australian superphosphate industry has asked the Government to grant relief in respect of the cost of the transporting certain materials, which will enable the 'price in Western Australia to be maintained at the level obtaining in the other States. I understand that the Government is being pressed on this matter, and that it is giving very sympathetic consideration to that request. Unless something more than sympathetic consideration on  the part of the Government be forthcoming, the superphosphate companies in Western Australia, which are cooperative, will not be able to carry the high cost of transport from Nauru and Ocean Island and, at the same time, sell at the price obtaining in the eastern States. 
I am glad to have that assurance from the Minister. The farmers in Western Australia need practical assistance from the Government to maintain the price at the same level as in the other States, and in seeing that it is sold to him at a pre-war price. The Government is now considering the whole matter from this aspect. However, I do not think that the appointment of a parliamentary select committee will solve the farmers' difficulties in regard to superphosphate. 
One solution is that when the Country party, which is an integral part of the Government, is convinced as a party of the urgency for relief being given along the lines I have indicated, it has it in its power to see that such relief is given. 
 in reply  - I shall deal first with the remarks of  Senator Johnston,  who, as a member of the Country party and a representative of Western Australia in this chamber, has endeavoured to find a way out of the predicament in which my motion has placed him. Although he complimented me upon bringing this matter before the Senate, he sought to throw cold water on my proposal, simply because a Western Australian member of the House of Representatives gave notice of a similar motion. The position in that respect is not exactly as the honorable senator has stated. During last session I made it known that I intended to give notice of this motion. I am not accusing either  Senator Johnston  or the honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Marwick),  but strange to relate, after I, as a representative of the Labour party, had raised this matter, the honorable member for Swan placed it on the notice-paper in the House of Repre sentatives although, as stated by  Senator Johnston,  he has now withdrawn it. I have been urged by honorable senators opposite to consider the advisability of withdrawing my morion and allowing the matter to be investigated by the Rural Industries Committee. With all due respect to the honorable gentlemen who are members of the committee, my opinion is that that committee is not competent to deal with the subject. In fact, it has not sufficient power. No doubt the Government will delegate to that committee many other matters which it considers require investigation. 
It will not have the powers that a select committee would possess. .! 
No. Despite his' emphasis of the urgency of this matter'.  Senator Johnston  says that it cai) be referred to a committee which it to investigate all problems relating ta rural industries. Can  Senator  Johnston  assure honorable senators that the  price  and manufacture of superphosphate will be the first matter on the agenda whan the Rural Industries Committee meets? I am sure that he cannot give that assurance, despite the fact that this matter affects almost every primary producer. It is apparent that notwithstanding the honorable senator's sympathetic lip service, and all his excuses for not supporting this motion, he is not prepared to  act  in accordance with the wishes of his own party in Western Australia, or of the Western Australian Parliament in which all parties unanimously decided to support the action I have advocated. 
 Senator Johnston  says now that a select committee would not be able to give relief to the farmers, yet he wants to delegate this matter to the Rural Industries Committee. 
SenatorFRASER. -  Senator Johnston  knows that 13s. a ton is the f.o.b. price at Nauru. 
It is. The price of phosphate rock has not increased to any great degree in recent years. I say to the Minister . that the difference between 13s. and £4 18s. 6d. and contemplated additional increases should be investigated. 
I do not dispute that, but as I pointed out when moving this motion, that acting on instructions from the Prices Commissioner the Australian Phosphate Company in Victoria, generally known as the Pivot Company, had to increase its price to £4 18s. 6d, That company was the regulating factor in the sale of superphosphate in Australia, but that position has now been altered. I realize that  Senator Johnston  is a member of the Rural Industries Committee. The honorable senator has admitted that the farmers are in urgent need of relief, but he claims that a select committee would never give them that relief. I should like to know what he expects the Rural Industries Committee todo?  His  attitude does not appear to me to be reasonable or consistent. The Minister has only told us what we already knew. He did not tell us, for instance, if the commissioner, in fixing the price of superphosphate, made a retrospective examination of this industry. That was one of my objections. 
Of course he does not. The Minister admits then that in fixing the price the commissioner considered only the figures obtaining at the 31st August, 1939. He did not make a retrospective inquiry to find out whether these companies were making big profits before the war. If they were making big profits before the war, they must be making 'big profits now. 
Despite the investigation and report made by the Commerce Department, the Western Australian Parliament is not satisfied. Unfortunately, we on this side of the chamber have not got the numbers to carry the motion, and it seems that this matter will be delegated to the Rural Industries Committee, but I assure the Senate that that will not satisfy farmers in Western Australia or in any other part of Australia. The price they have to pay for superphosphate is affecting them severely, and the inevitable result will be that they will use less. Perhaps that is the intention of the Government. 
Quite possibly. I shall come to that point later. Is the Government trying to find a way to starve the people off the land? Are those the tactics which are to be adopted? 

 - Senator Uppill is probably one of those fortunate members of the Senate who are in a position to pay cash for superphosphate, but I remind him that there are many other farmers in Australia who are not so well placed, and have not the necessary ready cash to enable them to secure the rebate of 5s. a ton.  Senator Gibson  has said that the supply of superphosphate may be rationed. That is quite true, and in view of that possibility I should like to know what has been done since  Mr. Gunn's  report on deposits in Australia was made in 1932. 
That may be so in some cases but I notice that some of the deposits contain 50 per cent, of fertilizer content. That is one of the points that have been raised in connexion with the increase of the price of superphosphate. 
No, but these deposits do exist and the people should know just what development has taken place since the report on them was made nearly ten years ago. The rationing of superphosphate would be disastrous to this country, and the sooner that this Parliament sees that something is done in regard to the development of our own resources the better it will be. I was struck by a comment made by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan several days ago, when he was speaking of the possible restriction of the acreage under wheat. The honorable senator said that we were facing a dangerous position. I agree with him that we should make every effort to keep all available land in production, because, perhaps sooner than we expect, millions of people in Europe will be starving. In view of that possibility, why should we talk of acreage restriction in Australia? As  Senator Cameron  pointed out, an accentuation of the position will mean that farmers on small holdings will go off the land, just as the small man is being forced out of business, and the wealthy landholders will 'benefit. If ever there was justification for the appointment of a select committee, it exists in connexion with the superphosphate industry. Despite all that has been said by  Senator Johnston  in favour of referring this matter to the Rural Industries Committee, I am not at all satisfied. I do not believe that that committee could reach a decision in time to save the small farmers from bankruptcy. At least I have carried out the wishes of the Labour party, and of the Western Australian Parliament, many members of which represent a large farming community in that State. 
Question put - 
That the motion be agreed to.. 
There being fourteen " Ayes " and fourteen " Noes ", the question is resolved in the negative. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.12 to 8 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I have great pleasure in moving the second reading of this bill. It has my entire concurrence and I feel sure that it will receive a speedy passage through this chamber. The object of the bill is to make permanent a provision introduced two years ago under which the Commonwealth provided £20,000 a year for the purpose of financing a national fitness campaign. Every body realizes that there is much to be done in this direction, and that physical training plays an equally important part as mental training in the life of the individual. Teachers cannot train their pupils effectively unless they have a proper conception of the principles of physical training. One of the objects of the bill is to train leaders to encourage others to improve their physical fitness.  I  think that I may claim to have a special interest in this scheme and probably know as much as anybody else of the improvement of health that follows planned physical exercise. The value of physical training is seen in the improvement of the health standards of those of our young men who have spent a month or two in our military camps. The exercise in the open air and the good food served in the camps improve their physique to a remarkable degree. 
Many of them did not get good food before they went to camp. They should have had it before. 
The national fitness movement, as a truly national and Commonwealth movement, was begun in 1939 by the present Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll),  who appointed a council of persons selected because of their association with sports movements in the States. A conference of State Ministers of Education which met in Sydney endorsed the movement, and the representative Commonwealth council met in January, 1939. The movement developed and spread, and ultimately the Government decided in July, 1939, to provide a total sum of £100,000 to be expended over five years for the promotion of a national fitness campaign. The annua] allocation of that money was as follows: - £1,000 to each of the State Governments for organizing purposes, and the following amounts to the universities: - Sydney, £2,000; Melbourne, £2,000; Brisbane, £1,500; Adelaide, £1,500; Perth, £1,500; Hobart, £1,000. The balance was left in the hands of the Commonwealth Minister for Health. It is now proposed to increase the grant to each of the States by £500 for the specific purpose of training leaders. State Governments were invited to form State Councils. The New South Wales Government had already a State Council in existence. The other Governments followed its example and State Councils were appointed on the following dates: Victoria, the 10th February, 1939; Queensland, the 12th August, 1939; Western Australia, the 14th March, 1939 (approximately) ; South Australia, the 20th October, 1939; and Tasmania (approximately), August, 1939. 
The Commonwealth money was allocated for two main purposes -  (a)  organizing expenses; (6) subsidies to universities for the establishment of diploma courses. 
Honorable senators will notice that paragraph (o) of sub-clause 5 of the bill has been amended by the insertion of the word " schools " before the word " universities ". That has been done in order to widen the scope of the scheme. All States have appointed organizers and all of the universities have accepted the conditions. In Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia, diploma or certificate courses have been established. In Western Australia and Tasmania it was decided to provide scholarships for selected persons to attend courses at other universities. The movement has been very enthusiastically taken up in every State. It has found expression in police boys' clubs, the formation of municipal centres, country permanent camps and summer schools for the training of group leaders, combined activities with such bodies as Young Men's Christian Association, &amp;c, and the formation of a youth hostel association. 
The enthusiasm with which this movement was adopted encouraged the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness, at its last meeting in November, 1940, to express itself in these terms - 
While the success achieved in each State ha* been noteworthy, it has recently become very apparent that the national importance and value of this movement has not been adequately recognized or expressed. 
The Council expresses its strongly held opinion that there is an imperative and immediate need to use the vitality of this national fitness movement as one means for securing a high ideal of national service. Central stimulus is necessary. Commonwealth direction and encouragement is desired and expected, and Commonwealth assistance must be given if the enthusiasm now available is not to reach its maximum and then fade away to nothing. 
Some satisfactory organization by which the Commonwealth gives evidence of its intention to foster this active enthusiasm is necessary if this movement is to be recognized as an integral part of whatever form of organized national service is adopted. That it is a  rigorous movement, arid that it can be capitalized as a vehicle for carrying national efficiency and national unity to a high plane, should 'be recognized. 
The council also expressed strongly its view that a central focal point was essential for all purposes of co-operative action. The constitution of the council was changed subsequent to the third session : instead of. being directly nominated by the Minister the council is now composed of the Commonwealth Minister for Health, the Minister for Labour and National Service, the Director-General of Health, and one nominee from each of the- State councils. The newly constituted council met on the  9th  and the  10th  May,  1940,  and in November,  1940,  held  a  very valuable joint session with the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
This bill contemplates the maintenance and development of this national movement adapted to the needs and local enthusiasms in each State, in association with related activities, and in close cooperation with the National Health and Medical Research Council. I have before mc notes relating to similar acts adopted in the United Kingdom and in New Zealand in  1939,  and to a bill which recently camo before the Congress of the United States of America. In those countries the movement has been enthusiastically advanced along parallel lines. The fund in the bill now before the Senate will consist at first of the  £20,000  per annum allocated under the original grant, and any moneys later appropriated by Parliament or gifts specially made for this purpose. In the United Kingdom, the grant approved under the relevant act amounted to  £1,468,000  in  1939.  On a population basis, the Australian equivalent would be about  £200,000  per annum - ten times the present amount. I may be asked why it is necessary to introduce this bill while in fact the Commonwealth has for two years subscribed  £20,000  per annum for the purposes mentioned. The universities and others interested in the scheme desire that it be given permanence so that they may plan ahead. It is desired that lecturers and teachers should have security of tenure of office. In order to achieve that object the Government has decided to ask Parliament to place this measure on the statute-book. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings)  adjourned. 
A few days ago, the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  tabled the report of the Power Alcohol Committee of Inquiry. The Minister did not then indicate the Government's view of the findings of that committee, but the following report appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald : - 
The Federal Government has decided, ns a first objective, to produce 22,000,000 gallons of power alcohol  a  year. 
This was announced to-day by the Minister for Supply,  Senator McBride,  when be tabled the Power Alcohol Committee's report in the Senate. 
The output of 7,000,000 gallons from existing distilleries, said  Senator McBride,  would be produced from molasses, supplemented by 4.000 tons of raw sugar, each year. 
The new distilleries, with an estimated output of 10,000,000 gallons, would use wheat only. They will be located in Western Australia (estimated output 2,000,000 gallons), South Australia (3,000,000 gallons), Victoria (2.000.000 gallons), and New South Wales (2,000.000 gallons). 
The capital required for these distilleries would be £1,100,000, and their establishment would be discussed by the Federal and State Governments and representatives of private enterprise to evolve mutually satisfactory arrangements. 
I now ask whether the Government intends to implement the recommendations of the committee, which the committee summarized in its report as follows : - 
That immediate steps be taken to expand Australia's production of power alcohol to 524 million gallons per annum, mainly from wheat and sugar cane. 
The fixing of a price of 2s. per gallon wholesale at blending depots. 
The introduction of suitable legislation, either Commonwealth or State, to ensure proper control in the production, financing and regulation of marketing in the power alcohol industry. 
During peace-time, the normal consumption of petrol in Australia is 350,000,000 gallons, of which 52,500,000 gallons of power alcohol would represent 15 per cent. The committee has recommended that all motor fuel consumed in Australia should be a blend containing somewhere between 12 per cent, and 20 per cent, of alcohol. In these proportions both the petrol and the alcohol give the highest standard of efficiency in the average petrol engine. It can safely be said that the motor transport community would in present circumstances be happy to pay the slight extra cost of the new fuel. In a country like Australia we must experience drastic economic repercussions as petrol rationing becomes essentially more severe. I do not intend to discuss the technical aspect of the power alcohol industry. The committee recommends the manufacture of alcohol from molasses, supplemented by a quantity of raw sugar, estimated at 40,000 tons annually. Personally, I think that that is the most efficient manner in which power alcohol can be manufactured, because distilleries already exist, and their capacity can be readily stepped up as required. However, the cost of transporting raw sugar and molasses to the distilleries is an important item of cost. For that reason, I believe that the committee had in mind the establishment of distilleries adjacent to the sugar mills in Northern Queensland, with perhaps a distillery in New South Wales. Alcohol can be manufactured more economically from syrups than from raw sugar. I realize that the establishment of distilleries will involve heavy expenditure, but the Government should, in the national interests, adopt the recommendations of the committee and go ahead immediately with preparations for the manufacture of 52,500,000 gallons of power alcohol annually, as recommended. lt may take up to two years before the required number of distilleries are in full production. At this stage, however, I should like to know whether the Government has evolved any definite plan for implementing the recommendations of the committee. The Government, of course, recognizes that if it intends to do so it must take steps immediately to purchase machinery or, perhaps, arrange for its manufacture in Australia. Up to date, however, the policy of the Government has been to hand over this matter to the Standing Committee on Liquid Fuels. That committee has never been very sympathetic towards this industry. But I know that the Government has handed over the report of the Power  Alcohol  Committee of Inquiry to that body. I am anxious, therefore, to discover whether the Government intend® to be guided by the opinion of the Standing Committee. If the recommmendations of the Power Alcohol Committee of Inquiry be implemented, the manufacture of power alcohol will absorb a quantity of sugar which cannot now be exported. That committee recommends that for that sugar the growers be paid £9 a ton - the export price. On that basis, power alcohol can be manufactured and sold at a price which compares favorably with that ruling for petrol to-day. But if the 
Government intends to be guided, as has hitherto been the case, by the advice of economists in this matter, it will not do the right thing by the sugar industry. We know that, had it accepted the advice of so-called economists in the past, neither the sugar industry nor our steel industry would be in existence to-day. The Government can safely implement the recommendations of the Power Alcohol Committee of Inquiry, because, by doing so, it will help to tide Australia over the difficulties now being experienced due to the shortage of petrol. The committee has made it clear that no technical difficulties arise; we can manufacture alcohol. Therefore, I urge the Government to give immediate and urgent consideration to the committee's recommendations. That committee consisted of practical men. It should not be thought for one moment that the power alcohol industry is going to prove a very great boon to the sugar industry. That will not be the case. However, as the sugar industry is now unable to dispose of the surplus which hitherto it exported, we must find some market for that surplus. Otherwise, 'we shall have to abandon a great proportion of our sugar lands. That, of course, is unthinkable. I again ask the Minister to indicate whether the Government intends to implement the recommendations of the Power Alcohol Committee, and to outline briefly what plans it has in mind in that respect? 
On the 30th June last, I completed 24 years of service in the Senate. I have reason to believe that for eighteen of those years every (member of this Parliament was my personal friend, and that there existed between me and each member a friendship which I appreciated and heartily reciprocated without exception. However, for the last six years, a certain member of the Senate has maintained an attitude of hostility towards me; and it is upon that matter that I now, reluctantly, find myself obliged to speak. The first evidence of this development occurred in connexion with the preselection of a candidate from among Government supporters for the presidency of the Senate. On the following clay, the 24th September, 1935, the follow ing report appeared in the Melbourne  Age : - 
There was nothing wrong with it until the final count was reached, and then its purpose was revealed, as well as the purpose of something else. This was how the Brisbane  Telegraph  reported the final figures - 
The retiring United Australia party-United Country party team - Senators W. J. Cooper, T. W. Crawford and H. Foll - have been reelected in the Queensland Senate ballot with much larger majorities than Uley had when they were elected in 1934. 

 Senator Foll, after the distribution of his colleague's preferences, had an absolute majority of 32,103 over the Labour and independent candidates, and his total was 59,087 greater than the highest Labour total. At the 1934 election  Senator Foll  had a majority of only 4,585. 

 Senator Cooper had an absolute majority of 2,227 over the combined total of  Mr. W.  Bertram, Labour, and  Senator Foll,  after the other candidates' preferences were distributed, had a majority of 25,513 over  Mr. Bertram.  This compared with a majority of 6,335 at the 1934 election. 

 Senator Crawford had a majority over  Mr. Bertram  of 32.31], compared with 6,793 at the 1934 election. 
The final figures in the election were - ' 
First vacancy -  Senator Cooper,  269,129;  Mr. W.  Bertram, 243,010. 
Second vacancy -  Senator Crawford,  289,171 ;  Mr. Bertram,  246,800. 
Third vacancy -  Senator Foll,  284,007;  Mr. Bertram,  224,980. 
I v/ish to make two or three very brief comments on that statement. It is stated that the Minister's total was 59,087 more than that of the highest Labour candidate's total. That figure was arrived at by including  Senator Foil's  preference votes and excluding  Mr. Bertram's.  Apparently it means something to a candidate to have a departmental publicity agent working for him at election time. With regard to myself, in the statement which I have read, 10,000 votes were lopped off my majority so that the final statement - no doubt that was the object - would correspond with the statement made at the middle of the count, when it was alleged that the Minister's popularity was shown by the receipt of two and a half times as many primary votes as were given to me. No contradiction or correction of those figures was published. If these things can happen in these allegedly democratic days, then 
God help democracy, unless something be done to put a stop to such practices. But that is not the finish of the matter. The following is an extract from a report which appeared in the Brisbane  Telegraph  on the 26th September, 1940:- 
The agents of the company, I assume. Some of them were most attractive :young men, whose special business it was to interview widows and endeavour to persuade them that they could double and redouble the small sums that their husbands had left to them and to their children by investing the money in Queensland Forests Limited. 
It seems to me that the Government and the Parliament has an imperative duty to perform, and that is to prevent the commercialization of the honorable title of senator. I suggest that without further delay every member of this Parliament should be required to furnish a return showing all directorships held by him and the remuneration received. ".No member of this Parliament should be allowed to be a director of an international company whose interests may clash with those of this country, and probably with those of the Empire and all for which it stands in these perilous days. I have spoken longer than I intended. Perchance I have adopted the style of the hustings rather than that to which honorable senators are accustomed in this chamber, but I can plead that I am somewhat out of practice. Having broken the ice, however, I may be heard in this chamber more frequently. As I said earlier, I have spoken reluctantly. I have taken this step only because it appeared to me to .follow naturally on the oath which I took yesterday to serve  my  king and country. 
The same honorable senator as is interested was in Mount Isa Mines Limited. He has a flair for that sort of thing. 
Order! 
Order ! 
The honorable senator may proceed with his remarks. 
I am both astonished and disappointed at the outburst of  Senator Crawford  in relation to myself. As he himself said, we were sworn yesterday for the fifth successive time. For 24 years, we have been colleagues representing the same State, having been originally elected to the Senate on the 5th May, 1917. The honorable senator has amazed me in some degree, but not altogether, by his outburst this evening. 
I certainly thought that the honorable senator was a worm, but I did not know whether or not ho would turn. 
I did not imagine that the honorable senator would aLow his bitter jealousy, because of the fact that I occupy a position in the Cabinet, so to overcome his sense of propriety and decency as to indulge in conduct of the kind of which he has been guilty this evening. I do not wish to take up a great deal of the time of the Senate, but  I  remind honorable senators that this honorable gentleman, who is so ready to charge members of this Parliament and of the Government with being associated with outside business interests, is himself engaged in business. 
Even when he was in the Ministry, he was the paid president of the Australian Sugar Producers Association. He has received payment from that organization every year since he has been a member of this Parliament. 
He has received payment as  president  of that association. As the paid servant of the Australian Sugar Producers Association he has received money, over and above what he is paid as a senator representing Queensland, in order to advocate the cause of the sugar industry. The honorable senator has been overpaid, because on every occasion that I can recall some matter of importance to the sugar indus. try being discussed in this chamber, he has been either absent or asleep. 
"When I was Government Whip in the Senate, at a time when the sugar industry was dependent for its existence upon regulations rather than upon an act of Parliament as it is now, a motion for disallowance of the protection given by the Government to the sugar industry was moved by  Senator Colebatch.  I do not say it egotistically, but it was only by careful whipping that that motion was not carried. 
Yes ; and one Queenslander also was away - the man who was paid by the Australian Sugar Producers 
Association to be here to represent that body.  Senator Crawford  was not here on that occasion. I assure the honorable senator that I would not have indulged in a speech of this kind had he not thrown down the challenge. The honorable senator must learn to take what he gives. There is no member of the chamber with a worse record of attendance over a period of years than has  Senator Crawford. 
I shall give the honorable senator's attendances record, and will show the number of days that he has been absent without leave. 
From 1929 to 1931 there were 154 sitting days.  Senator Crawford,  who was here as the alleged champion of the sugar industry and as the representative of Queensland, attended on only 93 of those days. On 59 days he was absent without leave, and for two days he was absent on leave. 
In the 1932-34 session, the sitting days numbered 115, but  Senator Crawford  was present on only 74 of those days. For the remaining 41 days, he was absent without leave. For not one of the days that he was absent was he granted leave. Out of a total of 269 days, this man, who was prepared to draw the pay provided by the people of this country for attending to his duties, attended on only 167 days. During the session from 1934 to 1937, there were 95 sitting days, but only on 39 of those days was  Senator Crawford  in his place. For 31 days he was absent without leave, and for 25 days he was absent with leave. During another period of 21 sitting days, in 1937, he was present on fourteen days and absent without leave on seven days. 
I did so, because throughout I have shown more loyalty to  Senator Crawford  than he has shown to me. 
In the years from 1937 to 1940, there were 85 sitting days.  Senator Crawford  attended on 73 days, and was absent on twelve days. The sitting days in 1940 numbered 23, on three of which the honorable senator was absent. Out of 23 sitting days in 1941, he has been absent on eight days. I remind the honorable senator, who finished his speech with such an impassioned appeal on behalf of King and country, that when the National Security Bill was introduced by the Government, in order to provide means for prosecuting the war with the utmost vigour of which Australia was capable, this man's vote was the only one not recorded. He went away from Canberra unpaired. 
I withdraw my reference to the honorable senator as a man. 
I shall give another example of the kind of man that  Senator Crawford  is in order to show how much notice can be taken of him. He has been attacking me in the presence of my friends, and his friends, for years. The only reason why he has attacked mo is because the Prime Minister  saw  fit to honour me by asking me to accept a seat in his Government. From that time onwards the honorable senator's attitude towards rae changed. Not only does he now seek to defame my character, but he has descended so low as to write anonymous letters to the then Acting Prime Minister, some of which I have here in my file. They are in his own handwriting and one is signed " A  Senator ".  He has not the courage to say outside this chamber what he has said here. 
The honorable senator may see it. 
I can understand the honorable senator saying that he doe not remember signing the letters. He did not sign them; they were anonymous letters.  His  obsession against me has become a kind of madness. 
I shall revert to that later. At present I am endeavouring to show what kind of man the honorable senator is by proving that he was the author of filthy anonymous letters written to the Acting Prime Minister concerning me. 
I do not intend to do so. So that there could be no doubt as to the source of these letters, I sent them, together with samples of the honorable senator's handwriting, to two handwriting experts, one of whom is employed by the Commonwealth Government when it requires evidence in relation to identification of handwriting, and the other, a handwriting expert employed by a State Commissioner of Police. Both experts agreed that  Senator Crawford  wrote the letters. What notice can be taken by the Parliament or by the people of a man who is prepared to descend to those depths? 
The reports received from one of the handwriting experts reads as follows: - 
Documents A, B, C, D, E have all been written by the same person. The case is sufficiently clear for demonstration and proof, if need be, in courts of justice. 
I have produced incontrovertible proof that the honorable senator has done so. He should be thoroughly ashamed of himself. 
I propose now to refer to what I consider to be a very paltry matter. The honorable senator attacked me because of the publication of a press report when he was nominated for the position' of  President  of the Senate. The honorable senator knows that I am not responsible for what is published in the press. He said that I had been instrumental in having published in the press a statement that I had flown back from London by air in order to contest the Senate election. Every body .knows that I returned by boat. As a matter of fact, I met some honorable senators at Fremantle on my way home. The honorable senator was apparently affronted because some newspaper referred to me as the father of the Senate. If I thought it would please him, I would be quite willing to refer to the honorable senator as the mother  of  the Senate. 
The honorable senator also said that, for a number of years, I endeavoured to run a Country party candidate in opposition to him. The time of the National Parliament should not be wasted by replying to .paltry statements of that kind. However, I shall not allow the statements made by the honor.able senator in connexion with my association with the Mount Isa Mines Limited to go unchallenged. I have never made any secret of the fact that I have been a director of that company for many years. Mount Isa Mines Limited is a public company, and every body knows that I have been associated with it. When I was first asked by the late  Mr. Lyons  to join his Ministry, I told him that I was a director of two companies, and two only - Mount Isa Mines Limited and New Guinea Gold-fields Limited. I said that, whilst  my  association with those companies would not clash in any way with my ministerial duties, if at any time he felt that such association embarrassed him or his Government, I would immediately resign from the directorates. I am prepared to do so to-day if my continued association with the two companies causes embarrassment either to my leader or to the Government. I was elected to the boards of those companies by the shareholders. No organization in Queensland has done more to develop the northwest portion of the State than Mount Isa Mines Limited. It employs between 1,200 and 1,300 men under conditions which compare favorably with those existing in any other organization of its kind in the world. The company has expended hundreds of thousands of pounds in the amelioration of the conditions of its employees. To-day, between 6,000 and 7,000 people depend upon the Mount Isa mine for their living. If  Senator Crawford  could forget his bias against me, he would be the first to admit that the company has been a veritable godsend to northern Queensland. The honorable senator referred to the output of the Mount Isa mine. Every ounce of lead taken out of that mine since the outbreak of war has been shipped to England as soon as shipping space was obtained to carry it away. The whole of the lead output of the mine was sold to the British Government at £15 a ton, a price which leaves little or no margin of profit for the company. The company has expended hundreds of thousands of pounds in wages and freight in order that every available ounce of lead could be placed ai the disposal of the British Government. Shares in the company, nominally valued at £1, are quoted on the London market to-day at 2s. Id. It has not yet paid a farthing in dividends, and it has no hope of ever recovering the money it has expended in building up its organization. The honorable senator also referred, to my association with New Guinea Gold-fields Limited. I have never made a secret of the fact that I am a director of that company, which, as honorable senators know, has had a very bad time. Shares in New Guinea Gold-fields Limited of a nominal value of £1 are quoted on the Stock Exchange to-day at ls. 4d. I give honorable senators these particulars to show the difficulties with which these companies have been faced. The honorable senator also said that I am a director of Queensland Forests Limited. He must he aware of the fact that I have never been  a director of or owned a share in that company.  His  attempt to link me up in some way with it is dictated by personal animosity in an endeavour to discredit me. in the eyes of honorable senators. The subject of my alleged association with various companies was raised in this chamber eleven or twelve years ago, when the affairs of the National Tobacco Company were under discussion. During the debate, it was said that I was a director of that company. As a matter of fact, I had relinquished my directorate of that company immediately after my return from England some years before. I have never made a secret of my associations with business undertakings. I have no desire to engage in a vendetta with  Senator Crawford.  I regret the unseemly and unwarranted attack launched upon me by the honorable senator to-night. I appeal to him to get out of his mind the belief that I bear him ill-will. 
On numerous occasions I have endeavoured to make peace bet-ween us. 
The first I saw of those figures was when I read the anonymous letter dated the 19th October, 1940, which the honorable senator sent to the Treasurer. On five different occasions, the people of Queensland entrusted the representation of that State to the honorable senator, myself and another honorable senator ; but I am sure they will not welcome displays of the kind that the Senate has been forced to witness to-night between two of their representatives. I trust that I have dealt fully with the various points raised by the honorable senator. My only regret is that the prestige of this august assembly should be jeopardized by such a regrettable incident as has taken place to-night. 
I congratulate the Government upon its action this evening in agreeing to the adjournment of the second-reading debate on the National Fitness Bill. I trust that it will adhere to that procedure in this chamber in the future even if, at times, it means keeping the House of Representatives waiting for the return of bills. The Senate must not continue to act merely as a rubber stamp, or a sausage machine, by putting through important measures immediately they are transmitted to this chamber. Honorable senators should be given sufficient time to study such measures in order that they can debate them intelligently. That procedure was followed in this chamber for a few months after the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay)  was appointed Leader of the Senate, and it did much to improve the prestige of this chamber. I am glad to notice that the Government is again reverting to that procedure. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General to the urgent necessity for erecting a second telegraph line between Western Australia and South Australia. When the Minister for Supply and Development was PostmasterGeneral, he visited Western Australia and inquired into this proposal. I know that the postal authorities in Western Australia are most anxious that the additional line be provided. The Minister gave the matter sympathetic consideration. The work is estimated to cost £175,000, but such expenditure is amply justified, particularly in view of conditions caused by the war. In ordinary circumstances civilians find it most difficult to obtain telephonic communication with the eastern States, but under war conditions that difficulty is magnified many times, because the military authorities, (mite properly, have first call upon the existing line. Often these authorities utilize the line for hours at a time, and during that period civilian communications are held up. In view of the very sympathetic consideration which the Minister for Supply and Development gave to this proposal when he was Postmaster-General, I am extremely sorry that the work was not undertaken before he relinquished control of the Postal Department. I now ask him to bring the matter to the notice of his successor in order that his promise that the proposal would be urged upon the Government may be honoured. I understand that a second line will provide not merely a double telephonic and telegraphic service, but will also enable the  present broadcasting service to be multiplied tenfold. I hope that this additional communication between Western Australia and the eastern States will be provided as soon as possible. 
Debate interrupted. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the  Hon.  Joseph Bertram Sleeman,  Speaker  of the Legislative Assembly of Western Australia, is within the precincts of the Senate. With the concurrence of honorable senators, I shall provide him with a seat on the floor of the Senate beside the President's chair. 
Honorable Senators. -  Hear, hear! 

 Mr. Sleeman 
 thereupon entered the chamber and was seated accordingly. 

.- I bring to the notice of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  the case of a Victorian soldier, Harold F. Brockley, who met his death while  a  member of the Australian Imperial Force abroad. This man left behind him a wife and three children. I knew him personally to be reliable and decent. To my knowledge he was not addicted to any vice. While serving with the Australian Imperial Force in Egypt he was absent one night without leave. During the evening he became embroiled in an affray with some Arabs. He was wounded, and subsequently died from those wounds. When I made representations to the Repatriation Department for  a  war pension for his widow and children the  chairman  of the commission replied by letter on the 24th June last as follows : - 
The death of this soldier resulted from  a  shooting  affray  in  which  he was involved whilst absent without leave from his unit. In the circumstances the commission, to comply with the law was obliged to reject the pension claim in accordance with that provision of the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act which excludes a grant of pension where death or incapacity from any occurrence happening during the commission of any breach of discipline. 
I realize that under the law as it exists at present  a  war pension cannot be granted to his family, but I suggest that certain features of the case call for special consideration. Were it not for the sacrifice which that man made in leaving his wife and children in order to serve his country as a soldier abroad, and the fact that he was on war service, he would not, in my opinion at any rate, have met with his death in such circumstances. The bald fact remains that this unfortunate woman is now left with three children. As an ex-soldier himself the Minister, and other honorable senators who have served in the field, know that not infrequently members of the forces absent themselves without leave. As men of the world they can readily realize that this man, when absent on the evening of his death, probably had a few shillings in his pocket and had a bit of a night out.  His  widow is known personally to me. At present, she is doing domestic work. She must now face the world with her three little ones. I repeat that I knew her husband to be a decent and courageous Australian. I hope that the Minister will be able, at least, to give to this unfortunate family  a  compassionate allowance. Such action will help to reassure our young men who enlist in the fighting services that the Government is prepared to face its responsibilities towards them, and in their day of trouble to stand by their dependants. 
This afternoon I asked whether the Government would make  a  pronouncement along certain lines regarding the gold-mining industry. I point out that a number of mines are being worked successfully at Bendigo, although none of them is controlled by a limited liability company. The works programme of each mine depends entirely upon call money. Because the impression has got abroad that the Government is not very anxious about the maintenance of the gold-mining industry, many investors in these mines are responding very slowly with their call payments, with the result that the mines are finding it difficult to continue operations. Some of them have reached s highly productive stage. I ask the Government, therefore, to make a pronouncement that in the sifting of essential and non-essential industries the ^old-mining industry will not be unnecessarily restricted. The Government should also give the assurance that it considers  this industry, which it has assisted over a period of many years, to be vital to the financial  stability  of this country. 
The case mentioned by  Senator Keane  seems to involve questions of both law and fact. The honorable senator has advanced a somewhat specious argument in support of his request that  further consideration be given to the matter. I cannot admit the validity of his argument, but I shall be pleased to go thoroughly into the case. At this juncture I point out that all responsibility for a breach of discipline must rest upon the delinquent. 
I draw the attention of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General to a question which I asked recently. In reply I was asked for further information. I thought that the facts of the case were made known to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  when he was Postmaster-General, and that he would have passed on the information to his successor. Evidently he has not done so. The matter involves a violation by the Postmaster-General of his power under the National Security legislation insofar as he has failed to compensate a tenant whom his department pushed out on to the street. The answer which I received to my question was - 
This is a hypothetical question, which is difficult to answer. If the honorable senator will give details of any specific case which he has in mind an endeavour will be made to secure information in regard to the matter. 
I now propose to give such details. The case concerns the leasing by the Postal Department of a guest house on Flinders Island for the purpose of converting it into a post office. The officers who effected this transaction knew that the tenant was paying £1 a week for the building, but the department agreed to pay a rental of £2 5s. a week. I admit that under the new tenancy certain improvements are to be made, but they are not so extensive as to warrant an increase of the rent by 25s. a week. This guest house was not the only proposition put before the Government for the purpose of providing a post office on Flinders Island. Private enterprise on the island offered a block of land free to the Govern ment provided it erected a post office thereon. Alternatively those interests offered to erect a building to the plans and specifications of the department, and lease it to the department for use as a post office. The department turned down that offer. I cannot understand why. The only explanation given to me is that it was turned down " for obvious reasons ". The department decided instead to rent this guest house. The man to whom I refer is a cripple and is unable to work. However, because he has not been judged to be totally incapacitated, he cannot obtain an invalid pension. In their patriotism, he and his wife invested their savings, amounting to £150, in war savings certificates. The balance of their money was invested in the purchase of a "drive yourself" car which is now of no use whatever. They were turned out of their home in order that the premises could be used as a post office. The last communication which I have received from the man indicates that the only place he and his wife have available to them to live in is a hut belonging to a friend. He has stored his furniture in a garage. Under the National Security Regulations the Government prohibits the increase of rentals without the authority of the Fair Rents Court, and the Postmaster-General's Department should not have been allowed to violate those regulations by taking this place at 25s. a week more than the previous occupant was paying. In addition, it has turned out on to the street a crippled man who is not getting a pension, and has no other means of livelihood. It is up to the Government to make some recompense for the injustice it has done to these people. The man has a block of land and £150 in war savings certificates, which he will have to dispose of in order to live. If he can get sufficient capital ho will be prepared to have new premises built. He hopes to obtain some money by selling the car which has been left on his hands owing to petrol rationing, and if the Government will not do anything else, it should take over that car as it is taking over many other private motor vehicles, and thus provide this unfortunate man with a little money to carry on. The man's name is  Mr. Charles  Gray. As I have said, he was conducting a guest house on Flinders  Island, and either by back-door or by front-door methods, the premises were taken over by the Government for use as a post office despite the fact that other buildings which would have satisfied the requirements of the department and the people were available. 
Another matter with which I wish to deal concerns members of the first Australian Imperial Force who are engaged on military service to-day. I have here a letter from a soldier of the last war who has been serving a military camp as an instructor. He is only a young man, and, so far as I can see, is very capable. He has been forced to leave the camp because of the distance which he has to travel in order to reach his home occasionally on week-ends. In the camp to which I am referring, there are 30 of. these instructor officers. At week-ends, a large majority of the men leave the camp and only a few officers are required to supervise those who are left. Some of these instructors have other callings to attend to. Naturally, they cannot live on the remuneration paid to them by the military authorities, particularly if they have families, and it is necessary for them to get home occasionally at week-ends. If they cannot do that, they find themselves unable to continue their work in camp and, in many cases, they have to return to civil life. In the case with which I am now dealing petrol rationing made it impossible for this officer to reach his home as he had done in the past, and he applied for transfer to a camp which is only a few miles from his home. The reply read - 
Reference your letter dated Jun« 14th, kindly note that married men with more than three children under sixteen years of age cannot be enlisted for military service. Your certificate of discharge (12th Training Battalion) is returned herewith. 
Nation-wide appeals are being made for young men to enlist either for overseas service or for service in the home defence forces, yet this man, who went through the last war, and who has been for several months an instructor in a camp, is discharged from the military forces, because he has three children under the age of sixteen years. He is a comparatively young man of the right type and his experience should make him valuable in a camp as an instructor. I should like to know whether the regulations relating to the enlistment of married men with families are as had been stated in the letter received by this man. If not, when I receive the Minister's reply I shall take the matter farther in this chamber, and perhaps give my opinion as to why this man has not been allowed to remain in the service. If men are being turned down in that way I fail to see any justification for the hue and cry now being made for recruits for overseas service and for home defence. I also fail to see any reason for an appeal to young men to join up and be trained as officers, when this man who has undergone that training has been discharged. 
There is a matter concerning the three services which I should like brought under the notice of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination  (Mr. Menzies).  Some time ago it was represented to me that a number of. men with mining experience were joining the services, and mining concerns were fearful of the consequences which would result from the engagement of unqualified men on the gold-fields. I interviewed General Durrant on this matter and inquired whether  the military authorities had power to refuse to accept such men in the forces. General Durrant indicated to me that the list of reserved occupations was not sufficiently comprehensive to cover these men in the gold-mining industry, and consequently, they could not be prevented from joining up. An officer was sent to Kalgoorlie to interview the members of the Chamber of Mines, and to obtain from that organization some idea of how enlistments were affecting the mining industry. I understand that the Chamber of Mines asked the Government to review the position, and I should like to know what action, if any, the Government has taken. This is a serious matter in view of the danger which may be caused by the employment in mines of inexperienced workmen. If no action has been taken, I ask that the matter be regarded as urgent and given immediate attention. As I said, I approached General Durrant on this matter. He seemed to me to be a very capable and approachable officer. I regret that he has now been transferred to Queensland; he knows the facts of the case which I am putting up. 
From time to time statements are made to us by Ministers regarding the development of war industries in the various States. For some time there was a great deal of jealousy between New South Wales and Victoria in regard to the letting of contracts. In fact, I heard it stated in Sydney that it was time that New South Wales got into this Victorian war. However, I should like to bring to the notice of the Government the neglect of Tasmania in regard to war industries. We have no major war undertakings whatever, and in addition we have lost a great number of men, and some women, to the mainland. Some months ago, a promise was given that a munition factory would he established in Tasmania, and I should like to know how far that project has proceeded. Tasmania's position is serious indeed. It is not an industrial State and; therefore, we cannot suggest to the Government that premises already in existence be taken over and converted into war work. However, something should be done for the people in that State. Apart from that aspect of the matter, Tasmania has no defence system whatever, and the war position is rapidly becoming worse. For a long time it was impossible even to get an aeroplane for training purposes, and I do not think that there is even one antiaircraft gun on the island. Yet military authorities state that should an enemy come to our shores, the first objective would be Tasmania, which would he used as a hopping off place for an attack on the mainland. Tasmania has a claim to military protection and is also entitled to a share in the war industries. Can the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  furnish any information regarding the establishment of a munitions factory in Tasmania? I understand that annexes have been built at the railway stations at Launceston and Hobart, but, so far as I am aware, no contracts are being undertaken . there. Tasmania is the smallest State of the Commonwealth, and, perhaps, for that reason, is looked upon as the least important of the States, but I remind the Senate that it has produced some distinguished politicians. A few years ago, when I was visiting north Queensland, one of my friends there said that they heard very little of Tasmania in that part of Australia. I replied, " Well, the present Prime Minister of Australia is a Tasmanian, the  President  of the Senate is a Tasmanian and the Commonwealth Statistician is a Tasmanian." At one time, a royal commission was appointed in Tasmania to investigate the reason why 16 per cent, of the population of that State migrated to the mainland States. Prior to the inception of Federation, Tasmania managed to keep out of debt, but since then it has experienced very difficult times financially. I hope that the Government will take into consideration the establishment of factories in Tasmania to enable it to share in the work done in war industries. 
 Senator Courtice  has inquired regarding the policy of the Government with respect to power alcohol. I suggest that the Government's attitude in that regard was illustrated by the fact that' it deemed the production of motor spirit in Australia to be of such importance that it has encouraged the manufacture of spirit of several kinds in order to relieve the petrol shortage due to the war. Knowing the possibilities with regard to power alcohol, the Government appointed a committee some months ago to investigate the matter and report upon it. As the honorable senator said, the committee made a careful investigation of the whole field in Queensland and in the other States, and presented to the Government a comprehensive report. Briefly stated, the recommendations of the committee were that the total production of power alcohol in Australia should he stepped up from its present low level of from 2,000,000 to 3,000,000 gallons a year to 52,000,000 gallons a year. It was pointed out that, in order to do this, certain commodities would have to be distilled, and those recommended were sugar and wheat. It was also recognized that power alcohol could not be distilled commercially in competition with petrol and several other forms of spirit that are now being produced in Australia, but it was pointed out that its production would not only help the motor industry, but would also assist in utilizing a certain proportion of our primary produce which is at present difficult to ship overseas. The Government carefully considered the report presented to it, and has decided to step up immediately the production of power alcohol at the distilleries at Sarina, Pyrmont and Yarraville from 2,000,000 gallons to 7,000,000 gallons a year. It has also decided to erect further distilleries capable of producing 10,000,000 gallons of power alcohol a year, and it has suggested that the raw material to be used shall be wheat. A further examination is being made of the possibility of producing rectified spirit, or 95 per cent, spirit, in the various distilleries in the Murray Valley. It is expected that with a slight expenditure it will be possible to step up their production to a total of 5,000,000 gallons  C  rectified spirit a year. This means that the Government has decided immediately to put in hand the expansion of power alcohol production in this country until the total output reaches 22,000,000 gallons a year. Whilst I agree that that does not completely implement the recommendations of the committee, I think that honorable senators will recognize that the Government has taken a step in the right direction. I call the attention of honorable senators to the fact that, whilst this production will be extremely useful to Australia, particularly in a time of petrol shortage such as that now being experienced, the committee itself- suggested that a period of two years would elapse before the output which it recommended could be obtained. 
In order to supplement the petrol supply further, the Government is also supporting financially and in other ways National Oil Proprietary Limited, which is engaged in the production of petrol from shale. Although difficulty has been encountered in connexion with that project, the Government is hopeful that before the end of this year, a substantial output of petrol will be obtained at Glen Davis. In addition, the Government has decided that the gas companies in the various cities of Australia shall produce benzol, and it is expected that within  a  reasonably short period about 8,000,000 gallons of benzol will be manufactured annually. It will thus be seen that the Government is not unmindful of the difficult position at present confronting Australia, and is taking action in the ways that I have indicated that will help the country in this time of need. 

 Senator Darcey referred to the manufacture of. munitions in Tasmania. I announced some time ago that the Government had decided to establish a small arms ammunition factory in that State, and that the project was to have been started almost immediately, but, in view of the fact that Tasmania produces some essential war  materials for gun ammunition, namely copper and zinc, the Government has now decided to establish a gun ammunition factory, together with a foundry and rolling mills, which will use the raw material produced in Tasmania, and convert it into brass and roll it into sheets for the production of gun ammunition cases. I can assure the honorable senator that that project is being put in hand almost at once, and the Government hopes that within a reasonable period, employment will be given to a considerable number of persons in Tasmania who are prepared to engage in the production of munitions. 
I cannot tell the honorable senator precisely when the factory will be in operation, but every effort is being made to construct it, and to build the necessary machines. At the earliest possible opportunity it will afford employment to some of those Tasmanians, who, as the honorable senator has said, find difficulty in getting work in that State, and are being encouraged to seek employment as munition workers in other parts of the Commonwealth. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I rise to amatter of privilege. I have to report that, in the Tasmanian newspapers just to hand, a very seriousbreach of what I believe to be the profound privileges of this chamber has, in my opinion, been committed. I ask honorable senators to give serious attention to the statement that I  am  about, to make, because, if action of this kind is allowed to continue, the honour of this chamber is likely, to be still further menaced. I suggest that  we  should enter an emphatic protest. It will be remembered that the day before yesterday certain ballots took place, and were conducted in secrecy. Yet two organs of the press in Tasmania publicly profess that  they  know how and by whom the votes were recorded. I shall read first an extractfrom the Launceston  Examiner  of the 2nd July. The article is somewhat lengthy, and I shall, therefore, quote only the  part  of it which impugns the honour of  the  Senate. The quotation reads - 
No place has been found in all enlarged Cabinet for a representative of this State.  Colonel (now Sir George)  Bell relinquished the Speakership, and that plane of honour passed to a mainland member. And yesterday the process of elimination was completed, when  Senator Hayes  was voted out of the Presidency of the Senate. The three Tasmanian Labour members of that chamber, Senators Lamp, Aylett, and Darcey, placed party before State and voted against  Senator Hayes.  Tasmanian electors should not forget this point. 
Standing Order 427, he must produce copies of the newspapers referred to and place thorn on the table. 
I am sure that  Senator A.  J. McLachlan is anxious to assist me in this matter; but his suggestion that I am not aware of what the Standing Orders provide rather interests me. 
When the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has submitted his motion the point of order could be raised, should he not produce copies of the newspapers referred to. 
Any senator complaining tothe Senate of a statement in a newspaper as a breach of privilege shall produce a copy of the paper containing the statement in question, and be prepared to give the name of the printer or publisher, and also submit a substantive motion declaring the person in question to have been guilty of contempt. 
I submit that none of those requirements has been complied with. 
I rule that the. Leader of the Opposition is in order. At the conclusion of his remarks he must submit a motion and produce copies of the newspapers, in accordance with the standing order. 
I again point out that, when the Leader of the Opposition submits his motion, I shall ask him to comply with the standing order. He is now in order, and may proceed. 

 Mr. Beck, M.H.R., stated, after the election, " Here disappears Tasmania's last official position in the Federal Parliament, and this has been brought about by the action of the three Tasmanian Labour senators, who have placed party before Tasmanian interests, and must be held responsible by the Tasmanian people for their actions ". 
Not only is it a distinct and highly discreditable breach of privilege, as far as this Senate is concerned, but it is also another example of the traditional capacity of the Australian press to do everything it can at all times to belittle the Opposition and its policy and actions. I say " at all times " advisedly, and I suggest that just as, during recent times, honorable senators on both sides of this chamber have become more or less jealous of the honour of the Senate, as is shown by the fact that we object sometimes to certain procedure, so I think that we definitely have to assert ourselves in connexion with the matter that I am now raising. There is another phase of it, which perhaps does not quite concern the motion, yet is germane to it. Three honorable senators have been mentioned by name. I am not a lawyer, but  Senator A.  J. McLachlan can probably help me out of this difficulty, as he tried to do a few moments ago in an imaginary difficulty. Not having a legal mind, I should say that the three honorable senators who have been specifically mentioned have a very good claim for defamation damages. 
That this Senate expresses its extreme disapproval of the action of the Launceston  Examiner  and the Hobart  Mercury,  and of a member of another branch of this legislature in their breach of the privileges of this House. 
I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that he add to the motion - "and declares the printers and publishers of the newspapers guilty of contempt". 
Is the motion seconded ? 
The Leader of Opposition has submitted the following motion :  - 
That the Senate expresses its extreme disapproval' of the action of the Launceston  Examiner  and the Hobart  Mercury  and of a member of another branch of this legislature 
The motion should be written more clearly. I ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  to re-write it. 
I shall suspend the sitting for, say, ten minutes. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.18 to 11.33 a.m. 

That this Senate expresses its extreme disapproval of the action of the press and  Mr. Arthur  James Beck, a member of the House of Representatives, in reflecting upon a secret ballot of this Senate, as reported in the  Mercury  newspaper of Hobart of 2nd July, 1941, page one, and in the  Examiner  newspaper of Launceston of 2nd July, 1941, page four, and declares the followingpersons guilty of contempt as provided for in Standing Order 427, namely, Arthur James Beck, member of the House of Representatives for Denison, Tasmania, Davies Brothers Limited, of93 Macquarie-street, Hobart, publishers and proprietors of the  Mercury;  and W. R. Rolph and Sons Proprietary Limited, publishers and proprietors of the  Examiner,  of Launceston, Tasmania. 
.- I second the motion. The two newspapers referred to in the motion have been guilty of a flagrant breach of privilege. There seems to be some agreement among the proprietors of the Australian press either to ostracize this chamber on every possible occasion or to limit the publicity given to its proceedings to unfortunate incidents such as we witnessed last night. The action of my Leader in raising this matter is amply justified. I am amazed  that the articles published in these two newspapers were passed by the censors. Generally speaking, the Australian press does a good job in connexion with our war effort and enjoys the goodwill of the majority of the people; but for a section of the press to suggest that the offices of  President  of the Senate and  Chairman  of Committees were competed for, and that, as the result, Tasmania has been unfairly treated, is atrocious. When the ballots were taken certain honorable senators supporting the Government were absent from the Senate and honorable senators on this side of the chamber merely exercised their undoubted right tosubmit themselves as candidates for the vacant positions. The ballots were taken secretly and fairly. No honorable senator in this chamber could possibly know how I cast my votes. 
I challenge any honorable senator to say how I voted in the secret ballots. How can any honorable senator opposite say that three honorable senators supporting the Government did not " twist " ? It was freely rumoured that certain honorable senators opposite favoured the appointment of a  chairman  from this side of the Senate. 
I do not regard that incident seriously. One of the parties to the squabble has always " been with the troops ". He may have voted with them on this occasion. It is a reflection on the three Labour senators from Tasmania to allege that, by their votes in the secret ballots, they inflicted an injury upon the State which they represent. The Commonwealth Constitution provides that Tasmania, which is the smallest State in the Commonwealth, and probably contains only as many people as there are in three big suburbs of Melbourne, shall have six representatives in this Senate. That is as it should be. During the last eight or ten years Tasmanian representatives in this Parliament have had a fair innings. That Tasmanians have been appointed to the  high offices of Prime Minister of Australia,  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, and  President  and  Chairman  of Committees of this chamber is evidence of the fair way iri which candidates have been selected. The newspaper reports complained of in the motion do not comprise &amp;he only instances in which this Senate lias been unfairly treated by the press. 1 readily admit that when legislation reaches this chamber it is not news. Due to the way in which legislation is introduced into this Parliament, members of the House of Representatives are able to steal most of our thunder. I do not complain of that. I merely point out that in that may lie the reason why the press so persistently ignores the proceedings of this chamber. Honorable senators, however, are at long last realizing that this is the senior house of the Australian Parliament, and that its dignity should be upheld. Tt should be the task of all of us to see that; no member of this chamber is misrepresented, and for that reason this motion should be carried unanimously. It ill becomes the press of Australia to have thrown in this "dead pig " at a time when the nation is experiencing the greatest difficulty in promoting its all-in war effort. It is also regrettable that at a time when we should present a united front to the world honorable senators should repudiate their leaders and indulge in exhibitions of malice as was done in this chamber last night. I am anxious to see how the unfortunate happenings in the Senate last night have been treated by the Tasmanian press. I commend the motion to honorable senators. 
No senator should use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and nil personal reflections on members should be considered highly disorderly. 
I regard the reference to " Arthur James Beck, a member of the House of Representatives," as distinctly offensive, and suggest that as it is out of order it should  ho  deleted. 
Any senator complaining to the Senate of a statement in a newspaper as a breach of privilege, shall produce a copy of the paper containing the statement in question, and be prepared to give the name of the printer or publisher, and also submit a substantive motion declaring the person in question to ha.ve been guilty of contempt. 
It appears to me that the only people we are capable of dealing with for contempt are the printer and the publisher. I venture to say that by including in the motion the name of a member of the House of Representatives we shall find ourselves in difficult constitutional waters. If the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  wishes to proceed with his motion he should eliminate the reference to a member of the House of Representatives. That suggestion is in keeping with the point of order raised by  Senator Johnston  under another standing order. Our right to deal with contempt is limited to those who, as printers or publishers, have been guilty of contempt. 
Leave granted; motion amended accordingly. 
 I second the motion as amended. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  is asking us to take a very foolish action in respect of the press statements to which he has referred. Apart from what he has said, I am not aware of the nature of those statements. But does any sane being in the community fail to realize that the election of the  President  on Tuesday was decided on a party vote? Indeed, if any honorable senator opposite were to declare on oath that he did not vote for his party's nominee, he would not be believed by any one. Yet we are now asked to declare the publishers of two reputable newspapers in Tasmania guilty of contempt of this Parliament. And for what? For telling the truth; because those papers have undoubtedly published the truth in this matter. That is what the Leader of the Opposition now asks us to do. We complain at times of the treatment which the Senate receives at the hands of the press. It has been well known that in the past Tasmanian members have been dissatisfied with their lack of representation in the Government, and in parliamentary posts. Recently, the honorable member for Denison  (Mr. Beck)  expressed such dissatisfaction, but the statement for which the Leader of the Opposition evidently intends later to ask the Senate to censure that honorable member was made before the ballot for the election of  President  on Tuesday last. No honorable senator opposite would dare to declare that he did not vote in favour of the Opposition's nominee for the presidency of this chamber. We are now asked to declare that in publishing the truth in this matter the publishers of two newspapers have been guilty of contempt of this Parliament. I admire the dexterity of the Leader of the Opposition in his endeavour to play upon the feelings of some honors) Me senators by saying that they do not receive fair treatment at the hands of the press. However his remark that the censorship should be employed to prevent newspapers from publishing the truth in a master of this kind is very significant. 
The voting was seventeen all. 

 Senator A. J. McLACHLANFrom what I know of my colleagues, I am convinced that without the support in one solid phalanx of members of the Opposition the voting would not have been even. I suppose, it is " La guerre ! " - the political war - as the French would say. In that ballot, the Opposition took advantage of the fact that one supporter of the Government was in hospital, and another Government honorable senator absent with our armed forces overseas. I do not know whether such tactics are really to the advantage of democratic government. I do not blame honorable senators opposite for voting as they did ; but when they ask this chamber as a whole to resent a statement of the truth by any newspaper, they ask us to bring ourselves into contempt and ridicule. Lei us take our gruel without " squealing ". 
The honorable senator is apparently very touchy. He asks why the censorship was not used in order to prohibit the publication of these reports. It is a shocking thing to suggest that the censorship should be used to suppress a vote taken in this chamber, and to save the faces of honorable senators opposite, because their action in remaining loyal to their party in that ballot may have undesirable repercussions. If the Senate agrees to this motion, it will bring itself into contempt. Honorable senators opposite cannot take their gruel; the reports complained of have got under their political skins. With all the power at my command, I ask the Senate to reject the motion. Its adoption will be detrimental to, not only this branch of the legislature, but also every individual senator who, no doubt, exercised his vote in that ballot according to his conscience and in loyalty to his party. The original motion has been amended to exclude reference to the honorable member for Denison  (Mr. 
Beck), but apparently we shall be asked to deal with that aspect of the matter later. I urge honorable senators to preserve the dignity of the Senate, about which the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues declaim so much. They should reject the motion. If it be carried, we shall look ridiculous in the eyes of the people of Australia. 
 As  a  Tasmanian representative in this chamber, I should like to address myself briefly to the motion. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  asks us to treat this matter seriously. He must be a pretty good leg-puller. I cannot treat it seriously. We are asked to declare the publishers of two newspapers guilty of contempt of this Parliament. Although the ballot for the election of the  President  was secret, we know that every honorable senator voted with his party. 
We do know it. I suggest that if my friends from Tasmania, Senators Darcey, Lamp and Aylett are prepared to swear that they voted for the Government nominee they would themselves be found guilty of contempt of the Australian Labour party, and dealt with accordingly by that organization. In considering this motion, we are making a mountain out of a molehill. If  we  agree to it, we shall make the Senate look ridiculous, and bring this chamber into contempt. God knows that at present this Parliament stands very unfavorably in the eyes of our people and, particularly, in the eyes of our soldiers overseas. We should endeavour to rectify that impression. The motion is too silly to be taken seriously. The Leader of the Opposition must be chuckling inwardly, when he trots out a motion of this kind. The sooner we get rid. of it and proceed to deal with serious matters the better. 
 The honorable senator who has just resumed his seat declared that this Parliament was not held in very great respect by our soldiers. I do not subscribe to that view; but if it be justified at all, it is because of such incidents as occurred in this chamber last evening. One Minister said, " Let us get on with our war effort ". For two hours last evening this chamber witnessed a disgraceful exhibition on the part of a Minister and a supporter of the Government. 
SenatorFRASER. - This is a democratic Parliament. The ballot for the election of the  President  on Tuesday last was conducted strictly in compliance with the Standing Orders. We on this side have been attacked by these newspapers because we accomplished what the Labour party has not been able to accomplish for many years. 
SenatorFRASER.- I do not know how the honorable senator voted. I know for which candidate I voted. The newspapers concerned have denounced certain honorable senators on this side because, allegedly, they voted for the Labour party's nominee. 
SenatorFRASER. - I am not prepared to say whether they did or did not. My personal opinion is that the ex-President is a thorough gentleman. I have no hesitation in saying that. The facts are quite plain. Because the result of the election was not what had been expected, these newspapers have endeavoured to discredit certain honorable senators on this side of the chamber. They would destroy these gentlemen politically, because of their alleged action in recording their votes in favour of the Labour candidate for the presidency. That is the type of unwarranted attack which we must scotch on every possible occasion. It is typical of the constant assaults that are being made on our democratic rights, not only in this chamber but also throughout the country. 
SenatorFRASER. - I do not object to criticism, but  Senator Spicer  knows as well as I do that the attack was made on a political basis. 
I remind  Senator A.  J. McLachlan that the  President  was elected in accordance with the Standing Orders of this chamber. 
Of course not, yet  Senator A.  J. McLachlan says that we on this side of the chamber took advantage of the situation. We should have been doing something in contravention of the Standing Orders had we not taken the course which we followed.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan made an eloquent speech in opposition to the motion, but I suggest that, had he been on this side of the chamber, he would have been just as eloquent in support of it. 
I am not making a fuss. The point is that because of their political affiliations these newspapers are seeking to destroy the very basis of democracy. They have gone out of their way to denounce three honorable senators on this side of the chamber. The three honorable senators concerned are the only ones who know how they voted. If lives are to be sacrificed overseas for democratic ideals, the press should not be permitted to indulge in a vendetta against individuals in this way. If the capitalist press of this country is to be free to discredit individuals, democracy will gradually be worn away, and those who £ire perpetuating this system will have the most to lose. I support the motion and [ shall have something further to say when a similar motion is moved later. 
I support the motion. Attacks, such as this in the press are nothing new. It is part and parcel of the policy of these newspapers to seize upon every occasion, whether they be right or wrong, to discredit members of the Labour party. We iiic held up to ridicule whenever the opportunity offers. The very sky is painted in letters of red showing what terrible nien we arc, devoid of principles and honour. As a matter of fact,  Senator .T.  E. Hayes was not voted out. The voting was equal, and he lost the decision in the subsequent draw from the box - a procedure which is apparently favoured by honorable senators opposite. The newspapers concerned represent wealthy private interests, and their policy is the very antithesis of the Labour party's policy. Their aim is always to discredit Labour representatives if they cannot be bludgeoned into acquiescence.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said a lot about truth. Apparently he regards himself as the personification of truth, but I am certain that neither he nor any other honorable senator opposite would be prepared to go into the witness box and swear as to how honorable senators on this side of the chamber voted. The editors of the newspapers concerned would not be prepared to make such a declaration. Obviously they could not do it. They could not satisfy any court, even if it were biased against Labour. The result of the presidential election was seized upon to endeavour to discredit certain Tasmanian senators for party political reasons. I repeat that it is all part and parcel of the policy of the privately owned press. Much has been said about the interests of Tasmania. Apparently honorable senators opposite would have us believe that those newspapers represent the interests of Tasmania, and that those interests have been jeopardized or prejudiced as the result of the voting for the  President  of this chamber. Nobody in his right senses would give credence to a statement of that kind. The  "interests of Tasmania " is a phrase used to cover up ulterior motives. That is exactly what has happened in this case, as it has in many other cases. Those newspapers do not represent the interests of Tasmania as a whole to a greater degree than do honorable senators opposite. 
What has that to do with the motion? 
Government have been prejudiced. That is the true position. With honorable senators opposite, party interests are of primary importance. 
.- The Standing Orders of the Senate provide for secret ballots but we are told by honorable senators opposite and the two newspapers mentioned how the three Labour senators from Tasmania voted. Therefore, we should carry this motion, if only for the purpose of protecting the officers of the Senate. When a senator receives a ballotpaper he writes on it the name of the candidate for whom he desires to vote, and the officers of the Senate are the only persons who see the names on the ballotpaper. The press statements to which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has referred show an attempt to intimidate Labour senators, but, even supposing the three honorable senators did vote in the way suggested, this Senate is supposed to be a non-party chamber and to look after the interests of the respective States. That is provided for in the Constitution. 
We should bc guided by the Constitution, and, if the Labour senators representing Tasmania voted as has been suggested, they probably took into consideration the position of honorable senators who have occupied high positions in this Parliament for a considerable time. The people of Tasmania have mad;e many complaints regarding the treatment that they have received from the Menzies Government, and the three Labour senators from that State may have thought that a change was desirable. 
I cannot tell the Minister that. The Minister reflects on the officers of this Senate, who are the only persons who saw the handwriting on the ballot-papers. The three Labour senators representing Tasmania may have thought, that the present Government had exerted little effort to prevent Tasmania from being robbed of its manhood by reason of the attractions of the mainland States to persons desirous of obtaining employment as munition workers; or was the Government anxious that there should be no change in the occupancy of the positions of  President  of the Senate and  Chairman  of Committees, so that plums might be provided to induce certain honorable senators to remain silent about the treatment received by the people of 
Tasmania? This Senate should declare that the newspapers concerned have been guilty of contempt. It is questionable how far the Government should accept voluntary censorship of the press, but the statement to which reference has been made is very likely to create a considerable degree of disunity among the working classes of Tasmania who are engaged in the manufacture of munitions and arc helping to provide large profits for the supporters of the Menzies Government. As the Labour party is doing its best to bring about an all-in national war effort the Department of Information should take action with respect to certain newspaper reports which are published from time to time. For the protection of the officers of this chamber, I hope that honorable senators opposite will discontinue saying that they know how the three Tasmanian Labour senators voted. 
 I ask the Senate to reject the motion. The officers of the Senate are in no way concerned in this matter, because the ballots referred to are held secretly and the officers do not know By whom the votes are recorded. In view of the fact that urgent business awaits the attention of honorable senators, I suggest that this debate be concluded as quickly as possible. 
I draw attention to the fact that this is the second occasion on which the action of Tasmanian newspapers has been questioned in this Parliament during the last year or so, and that those are the only newspapers whose conduct has warranted the special attention of the Parliament. On a previous occasion the Hobart  Mercury  published a faked photograph of the chamber of the House of Representatives in an endeavour to discredit this democratic institution. Having failed to do so, and having caused the Menzies Government to threaten to impose a censorship on the press, it now tries to damage the Labour movement. Actions of this kind bring about dictatorships. I can understand the newspapers in Tasmania, and all vested interests throughout Australia, which are represented by the Menzies Government and the political parties  which support it, desiring to discredit the Labour movement, but the action to which exception has been taken to-day goes further than that. In my opinion, certain newspapers desire to destroy democracy, and set up in Australia a fascist dictatorship. That is what I fear, and I make the statement in all sincerity.  Senator Sampson  said that he could not treat this matter seriously, but so serious was the recent action of one of the capitalist newspapers that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  drew attention to a faked photograph taken in this building. That was more than a party political manoeuvre; it was designed to induce the people to lose interest inthe National Parliament. Now Tasmanian newspapers have made a further attempt to belittle the Senate. Is it desired by the Government that those newspapers should be protected? Their owners should he made to realize that the Senate is the upper branch of this legislature. If the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  considers that the Government is bound to support those newspapers, I again remind him that when, a short time ago, because of the action of one of those newspapers, the freedom of the press throughout Australia was threatened, every newspaper which had tried to act decently asked members of the Australian Labour party to do something to prevent press censorship regulations from being implemented. Now the Leader of the Senate asks us to reject this motion because he thinks that it would interfere with cheapjack capitalist newspapers published in Tasmania, which first wanted to damage ordestroy our democratic system and now desire to besmirch the good name of the Australian Labour party. 
.- The only serious aspect of this matter is the readiness with which the members of the Opposition would interfere with the liberties of the press. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  has propounded this motion upon the basis that certain statements contained in the newspapers referred to were not true, and, in those circumstances, I submit that the onus lies upon him to satisfy me and every other member of the Senate that what appeared in the newspapers was not true. Everything that we have heard in this chamber this morning would convince an unbiased observer that the three Labour senators representing Tasmania who are alleged to have supported the Labour candidate for the presidency did support him. Not a single member of the Opposition is prepared to stand up in his place and say that, he does not believe that those senators voted for the Labour Party nominee. It would be a simple matter for the three Labour members from Tasmania to place the matter beyond doubt. 
By telling us that they did not vote as has been alleged. 
No breaking of their oath would be involved in such action. Two Tasmanian newspapers have been charged by the Leader of the Opposition with a serious offence, and, if I understand anything about the principles of British justice, the duty of the prosecutor is to prove his case. 
He did not. He produced a newspaper which contained a sta tement tha t, every member ofthis chamber believes to be true. The obligation lies on the Leader of the Opposition who, on this occasion, is taking on the task of prosecutor, to convince us that the statements in the newspapers are not true. So far he has done nothing to prove that they are untrue. Moreover, I challenge him to tell us that he believes that the statements are untrue. He is not prepared to do so, and yet we are asked to declare that these newspapers have been guilty of contempt. 
There is another important aspect of this subject. In a democracy it is a serious matter to find that a responsible political party would be prepared, if it controlled the censorship, to prevent the publication of the truth. Indeed, the Opposition would go farther, for it would use the censorship to prevent reasonable political criticism by newspapers. This newspaper comment has got under the skin of the Opposition, and that is the real cause of its complaint. The Opposition objects to the electors of Tasmania being told how their representatives in this chamber acted. I am not prepared to support the motion, for I believe that the carrying of it would bring Parliament into contempt. 
 in reply  - In all sincerity, I say that I am astonished that the motion which I have moved should have created so much excitement. I was honestly of the opinion that the interpretation which I put on the newspaper comment was so obvious that it had only to be  stated for the Senate to express, to use the terms of my motion, " its entire disapproval ". Nevertheless, I am not altogether amazed at the heat which has been displayed by honorable senators on the other side of the chamber. I know the history of the evolution of Parliament. I know the fight that had to be waged through the ages to obtain the right to have parliaments in which men would be free to express what they thought. I know, too, of the fight for the secrecy of the ballot. Unlike those younger men who rush in where angels fear to tread, and thereby expose their folly, I know the penalty that had to be paid by myself, and others, for our efforts to obtain a secret ballot. I can remember the days when there was no secret ballot - when voting was open, and the candidate with the most money to provide free beer in the streets bought and obtained the most votes. It has been suggested that I have moved this motion because we on this side of the chamber - the heirs of the pioneers who engaged in the struggle for the secrecy of the ballot - cannot stand criticism. I ask the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLcay),  and those other honorable senators who have spoken from the Government benches, if they believe that the Opposition in this chamber is afraid of criticism, and is unable to bear it? They know that is not so. I arn astonished at the defence that they have put up. As  Senator Spicer  has said, we on this side arc the prosecutors. He is the self-appointed counsel for the defendants, and that accounts for his heat this morning. Because of their expressed approval of these newspapers honorable senators opposite are on their trial. 
We shall have no trouble in doing that.  Senator Spicer  began his speech on behalf of the defendants by making a statement which was entirely inaccurate. I do not think that he acted with malice aforethought, but rather that he made a mistake, when he attributed to me a statement which I not only did not make, but also have no intention to make. According to the honorable senator, I said that the statements made in the press were not true. I said nothing of the kind. 
I said that a secret ballot was taken in this chamber the day before yesterday. The publishers of two newspapers published in Tasmania, and a member of the House of Representatives. have declared that they know how certain votes were recorded. I have not challenged the truth of their statement, but I want to know how they know the way in which the votes were recorded. Counsel for the defence can put me into the witness box, in which event I shall swear that I do not know how any honorable senator on the other side of the chamber voted. 
In a court of la w, belief is not evidence, and the honorable senator knows it. Belief may mean anything. I have never taken an oath in my life, and I will never do so; but I am prepared to go into the witness box and affirm that i do not know how one  nian  on the other side of the chamber voted. I do know how one man on this side voted, and I am prepared to go into the witness box and say so. I know how I' voted.  Senator Keane  is sitting alongside me, but I do not know how he voted : and I would not be impudent enough to ask him. 
Some of the remarks made by Government supporters this morning were entirely unworthy, as well as unkind. Outside the chamber, I know that it has been said that the Opposition took advantage of the fact that one' Government supporter was abroad fighting the nation's battles with the Australian Imperial Force; that another had been taken suddenly ill, aud had been conveyed to hospital; and also that another honorable senator suffers disabilities 'because of his heroism on the other side of the world on a former sad occasion. In addition to being unworthy, such statements are untrue. The Opposition has voluntarily given a pair to  Senator Wilson  for so long as he is away with the Australian Imperial Force. He did not ask for it, although I know that lie desired it. We have honoured that undertaking by giving to him a pair in every division that has occurred since he left this chamber. Moreover, the Opposition has never refused a pair to a sick man. Only last week, a pair was given in such circumstances, but not on the occasion of the taking of a secret ballot: 
The Minister has fallen into the trap which I set for him.  His  interjection suits me very well. What does the Government expect from members of the Opposition? Does it expect us always to be magnanimous and self-sacrificing, and unmindful of the fact that Opposition members comprise practically half of the voting strength of this chamber? Does the Minister really think that two members of this party should have walked out of the chamber on an occasion of great importance to the nation, especially when we believe that a change should be made in the official representation of this chamber? Has the Minister himself ever done anything of that kind? Has the Government ever shown any willingness to water down its anti-Labour legislation to meet the wishes of the Opposition? In the days when the Opposition in this chamber consisted of three senators, how waa it treated by the Government majority? Yet, when the Opposition acts in. its own interest, it is told that it has done something that it, ought not to have done. I repeat that we have given sick mcn pairs whenever they have  asked  for them. Only last week, three of my colleagues were paired with three honorable senators opposite. 
I regret that similar action on our part may have to be taken again in the near future. Before honorable senators opposite indulge in gibes, they had better go back to what occurred in their own party meeting. I ask them to reflect on their treatment of one of their number who, while a soldier in the last war, lost a leg. If honorable senators opposite will think seriously of their own conduct, they may be less inclined to lay against the Opposition charges which, in addition to being untrue, are unkind and unworthy of men holding responsible positions. I am not astounded to find honorable senators opposite rushing to defend the publishers of those two newspapers, because it is natural for men to defend their friends. Some honorable senators opposite are where they are because of newspaper tactics, and for that reason they have rushed in this morning to defend the newspapers which support them. I do not propose to lay a second charge of contempt against the  Examiner,  but I propose to read from another portion of it, in order that honorable senators may understand why I am impeaching it for contempt. I have never read anything more amazing.  Sitting suspended from 1246 to 8.15 "p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting, I was proceeding to show how the publishers of two newspapers which I have indicated are the friends of honorable senators opposite, and that it is natural that honorable senators opposite should rush to defend them. I was still less astonished at the attack made on honorable senators on this side of the chamber when I read the following news item which appeared in the Launceston  Examiner,  one of the newspapers which I have impugned : - 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  lias arranged to visit Launceston on the 18th and 10th July for the annual State conference of the United Australia and Nationalist Organization. 
The Prime Minister is to address a public meeting in thu Albert Hall on the 19th July. 
I do not wish anybody to think that I object to that. He has a perfect right to go where he pleases, say what he pleases and address whom he pleases. The article continues - 

 A meeting nf the  Bass-Wilmot  Divisional Council was held at Launceston last evening. 
Representatives were present from the town and. country, the country representation being particularly satisfactory. The  chairman  was  Mr. Gordon  B. Rolph. 
It is a gentleman named Rolph. whom I am indicting for contempt. There are the links in the chain of evidence which shows that these newspapers are so biased against the party to which I belong that they are prepared to destroy the secrecy of a ballot taken in this chamber, and to defame and politically injure three honorable senators who sit in this chamber. 
Question put - 
That the motion, as amended, be agreed to. 

 - by leave - In view of the many questions asked in connexion with petrol stocks, I desire to inform honorable senators that the stocks held by the various oil companies are not based on sales, nor on any period for consumption. At the outbreak of war, the companies were asked to increase the stocks to three months' supply, and the larger companies did so. More than twelve months ago, when the cartel was being formed, the companies agreed to increase their stocks to the limits of storage capacity, and financial assistance has always been available if required. Financial assistance has been declined only in respect of increased seaboard storage. It is the Government's policy to increase storage inland. The cartel was formed mainly to increase that capacity, and to pool both tankers and tanks. Provision was also made to pool stocks. The cartel is a voluntary arrangement entered into by all importing companies to assist, in increasing storage, and the sales quotas fixed by them are incidental to that objective. Unfortunately, the British controlled companies have had special difficulties in getting tankers. The cartel and the individual companies have been asked to get tankers wherever they may be available. The Government has assisted the smaller companies in particular, and is negotiating for the direct, purchase of large stocks. At every point, however, the world shortage of tankers presents serious obstacles. There is no truth in the statement that tankers serving Australia have been diverted to Japan. The Government will support any endeavour to get tankers from any source. Aviation spirit is supplied under contract and has priority for tanker capacity. The prices paid compare favorably with those paid by any other country. The two larger companies are the contractors because they alone have been able to fulfil the onerous conditions of supply throughout the Commonwealth for Royal Australian Air Force depots not only in the settled areas, but also in many remote places throughout the continent. The price varies according to locality and the landed cost of the product. It is impossible to reveal figures of stocks or other information without disclosing vital facts to the enemy. Stocks are much better than has been alleged, though they are not, as great as we need. On all these questions the Government is in constant communication with the British Government, and is making the strongest possible representations for the release of more tankers for all classes  of petroleum products. Three additional tanker voyages have been allotted to Australia within the last few days, two for aviation spirit and one to build up stocks of motor spirit for civil purposes. These tankers will increase stocks by approximately 8,000,000 gallons. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army if the Government will take immediate action to ensure that adequate aircraft protection is allotted to each Australian Imperial Force division overseas when engaged in active operations, such aircraft support to be responsible directly to the divisional commander and not to the Royal Air Force command as is now the case in the operations in Syria? In view of the fact that battles are raging now, I ask the Minister to answer my question this afternoon. 
The Government has al ways made the strongest representations that adequate aircraft be provided for the protection of our troops overseas. I cannot undertake to do something that might result in changing policy of the command on the battlefront, but I shall see that the honorable senator's question is brought to the notice of the Government. I assure him that the Government is taking appropriate steps to ensure that full equipment is always available where pur units are 'fighting. 
Will the Leader of the Senate state what price is now being paid by the Government for aviation spirit? 
No. I assure the honorable senator that it is being bought on thebest possible terms. 
I assure the honorable senator that that is so. However, as he says he does not believe it,I can say no more. 
Will the Leader of the Senate indicate which Minister is in control of motor spirit? 
Is the Government aware that the New South Wales Government has decided to re-open Walsh Island Dockyard for the urgent and vital purpose of building ships? If so, what financial assistance is it proposed to provide for the purpose of expediting this essential national war effort? 
With the concurrence of the Commonwealth Government the future development of Walsh Island is at present the subject of negotiation between the Government of New South. Wales and the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
-Can the Minister for Munitions say when a commencement will be made with the erection of the munition building and plant at Rutherford? Will the Government treat that project as urgent, in viewof the fact that it will provide work for a large number of the unemployed in northern New South Wales? 
-I assure the honorable senator that the Government regards the erection of that factory as urgent, and that work will be commenced as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What assistance is at present rendered by the Federal Government to gold prospectors in Australia? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
The Government has placed a. tax on gold equal to 50 per cent, of the price in excess of £9 a fine ounce. The present tax amounts to 17s. an ounce. To assist the gold prospector the Government refunds to each prospector the amount of gold  tax.  paid upon the first 25 ounces of gold upon which he directly or indirectly pays tax in any year. 
asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
When is it contemplated that the small arms ammunition factory at Welshpool, Western Australia, will be completed? 
How many hands will be employed, (a) men, and women? 
Under whose management will the factory operate? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
In approximately nine months' time. 
About 200 men and 1,000 women. 
Department of Munitions. 
asked the Minister for Aircraft Production,  upon notice - 
Has the Government taken any steps to produce first-line fighter 'planes in Australia? 
If not, will the Government take any steps for such production? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The Government is planning the further development of aircraft construction in Australia, and that development will include a full range of training 'planes and the best bombers and fighter 'planes that have so far been devised and tested in actual service. 
See No, 1. 
asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
.  Will the Minister inform the Senate to what stage the annexe to the Launceston railwayshas been developed? 
When will it commence operations ? 
What stage has the projected munition factory in Hobart reached; when will building operations commence; and when does the Minister contemplate the factory will be completed and commence production? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The building has been completed and the electrical installation is proceeding. Approximately 50 per cent, of machine tools required have been delivered. Deliveries are continuing but installation of such tools has not yet commenced. 
It is anticipated that operations will commence about the end of August. 
The site has been selected and preliminary planning is under way. The plant has been ordered and is now being manufactured. The building operations will commence in about one month. It is contemplated that the factory should be completed, and commence production in about nine months' time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation,  upon notice - 
What is the total amount of subsidies paid to air-mail services? 
What quantity of petrol is allowed them by the Liquid Fuel Control Board each month? 
How many and which of these services are running in. opposition to railways? 
What is the number of these services where shipping is available? 
The Minister for Civil Aviation has supplied the following answers :  - 
The total amount paid in subsidies for air-mail services is at present at the rate of £189,374 per annum. This amount includes subsidies of £62,750 per annum and £29,356 per annum paid for the Empire service and the Tasman service. Certain air-mail services are paid for the weight of mails actually carried either in addition to or substitution for subsidies. These payments approximate £195,280 per annum of which £65,260 is payable in respect of the Empire service. 
Operators of regular air services draw supplies of petrol necessary for the operation of their scheduled trips. Supplies for additional trips are authorized when the Department of Civil Aviation is satisfied as to the justification for the additional trip. It is estimated that all regular air services in Australia (including the Empire, Tasman and Dutch services) use approximately 250,000 gallons of petrol a month. 
With two exceptions it may be said all internal Australian air services cover routes wholly or partly served by rail, but they cannot be said to run in opposition to railways. 
If oversea routes is meant, six services are concerned, viz.: Darwin-Singapore; CairnsMoresby: Sydney-Auckland; MelbourneTasmania, including Flinders and King Island; Adelaide-Kangaroo Island; CairnsHorn Island. If coastal shipping services are meant all the coastal air services may be said to be on routes where shipping sometimes is available. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
In view of the threatened shortage of superphosphate, will the Government have an investigation made into the extent, grade and value of the deposits of phosphatic rock known to exist in Western Australia? 
The answer to the honorable senator's question is as follows :  - 
Inquiries have been made with regard to the honorable senator's suggestion that the deposits in Western Australia should be investigated. Information is available in the Industrial Chemistry Division of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research concerning these deposits, which have been reported upon in the annual reports of the Western Australian Department of Mines over a period of many years. However, little commercial production of phosphate materials has been recorded in Western Australia since 1908. Apparently some benefication of Australian phosphates is necessary before the material would be of commercial value. It is understood that Professor W. S. Bayliss of the University of Western Australia is conducting preliminary investigations on these lines. 
On the 25th June,  Senator Ashley  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army the following question,  upon notice - 
What quantities of the following fruits have been supplied by the Apple and Pear Board or other organizations to the military camps during the past twelve months: - (a) Apples; (&amp;) pears; and (c) bananas? 
The Minister for the Army has now supplied the following answer: - 
The following quantities of fresh fruit have been supplied to military camps during the last twelve months: - (a) Apples 206,857 cases; (b) pears 1,373 cases; and (c) bananas 28,355 cases. 
I rise to a question of privilege. I have no intention of adding to what I said on the motion involving privilege which I moved this morning. I move - 
That this Senate expresses its extreme disapproval of the action of  Mr. Arthur  James Beck, member of the House of Representatives, in reflecting upon a secret ballot of this Senate, in a statement to the Tasmanian  Mercury  of the 2nd July, 1941, page 1, and declares that the said Arthur James Beck, member of the House of Representatives for Denison, Tasmania, is guilty of contempt. 
I second the motion. In doing so, I wish, briefly, to supplement the statement  i  made when speaking to the motion of privilege dealt with this morning, that such newspaper reports should have been censored. That statement evoked a tirade of opposition from honorable senators opposite. My contention is supported by the fact that pressmen's reports of speeches by two honorable members in the House of Representatives last evening in criticism of the Government were censored. If censorship of criticism of the Government by two members of the House of Representatives is justified, my contention that newspaper criticism of the Senate of the kind now under consideration should be censored is not unsound. 
I trust that this motion will not be carried. All the remarks made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  in opposition toa motion of a similar character moved this morning apply equally in this case. My only reason for rising at this stage is to refer to a statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keane)  in regard to the application of censorship. Quite frankly, I admit that this would be one of the worst possible matters to which censorship could be applied. Censorship should be applied only to statements of a subversive character or to information relating to troop movements, the movements of ships, the production of munition factories and so on, which would endanger the nation should such information reach the enemy. It is strange that the application of censorship should beurged in this chamber, whereas in the House of Representatives to-day a strong protest was made because censorship had been applied to statements which, had they been transmitted overseas, would be of definite value to the enemy. In regard to what occurred last night I assure honorable senators that it was not a question of speeches as such being censored. The instructions given were of a specific nature, and referred only to certain statements. 
If that be so, it was done in error. No instructions were issued thatthe whole of any speech should he censored. Following discussions with my colleagues, and with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  I issued instructions that no censorship was to be applied to the debate that took place this morning. I believe that censorship should be used only in regard to statements which if published would be of value to the enemy. I remind honorable senators that a number of statements made by individuals, and published in the press, have been quickly seized upon by the Axis Powers and used for propaganda purposes in an endeavour to disintegrate the Empire and impair our war effort. My view is that censorship should be used very carefully indeed because one privilege which we should jealously guard in this country should be freedom of speech, thought, and publicity. I should also point out that the censorship is not confined to the speeches of private members of this Parliament or to the utterances of members of any particular party. Statements by Ministers are subject to censorship. Some of my own statements have been censored, because information contained in them, such as the location of a particular factory, or the position of an important roadway, might have been of value to the enemy. That is the only basis upon which censorship should operate, and I should be strongly opposed to allowing such a matter as this to become the subject of any form of censorship. 
 I support the motion, and, in doing so, I again wish to refer to a remark made by  Senator Spicer  this morning. The honorable senator said that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Callings)  has failed dismally - I think that is the expression he used. Apparently  Senator Spicer  was prepared to support the Leader of the Opposition's previous motion, had it been justified by the truth. He has an opportunity to give that support now. 
I repeat that  Senator Spicer  will have an opportunity to take a stand in this matter. I understood the honorable senator to say this morning that had there been a tittle of truth in the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition, he would have supported the motion. 
Although the numbers against us prevents us from carrying this motion, I believe it to be the duty of honorable senators on this side of the chamber to bring such matters before the Senate and the public. I agree that the honorable member for Denison  (Mr. Beck)  should be disciplined. The following paragraph appeared in the Hobart  Mercury - 
I know of no occasion since I have been a member of this chamber on which a  Hansard  reporter has not been in the chamber when a speech was being delivered. Neither have I heard of such a state of affairs in the House of Representatives. Had the honorable member for Denison made such a statement in Parliament, an explanation would have been demanded. 
Any one who supports such statements is not protecting the honour of this Parliament. The paragraph continues - 
There was too much speaking for the time limit of three-quarters of an hour- 
This is the portion to which I wish to draw attention. It is a reflection on the  speaker  himself, and I ask that action be taken against the honorable member for Denison along the lines suggested by the Leader of the Opposition - mid too frequent granting of an additional quarter of an hour on the motion  of a friend pf the  speaker. 
That is a reflection on the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
It definitely is, despite what the Minister may say in an endeavour to camouflage it. The honorable member for Denison says in effect that unless a member is a friend of the  Speaker  he is not able to secure an extension of a quarter an hour. That is a gross misrepresentation of the true position. The honorable member for Denison is charging the  Speaker  with being unfair. When he made that statement the honorable member was addressing a meeting of the Australian Women's National League at Hobart. 
Exactly. One would not expect them to accept a dose of poison. I have not yet come to the conclusion whether the honorable member for Denison is a Nazi or a Fascist, or is endeavouring by means of his "utterances in. the press to break down the very principle for which this country is fighting, namely the freedom of speech and the freedom of thought. He is deliberately endeavouring to discredit the  National  Parliamen t. 
Sena tor FRASER. - Yes, by men like the honorable member for Denison. I hope that his term will be very short, but even if it is he will gain great experience. Since payment of members has been introduced, the masses have enjoyed parliamentary representation and there was therefore no need for the gibe about professional politicians. 
The honorable senator does not like my criticism. History has shown, time after time, the influence exerted by " big business " under our democratic form of government, but the working classes have had a fairer deal since the introduction of payment of members, which has made it possible for them to have adequate representation. 
.- I have been in politics for twenty years, and only once during that .period have I known of a censure motion relating to an individual member of Parliament being introduced. On that occasion, the motion was not seconded. If we are to censure members of this Parliament for the remarks they make, where would the matter end ? I thought that the Labour party stands for freedom of speech, hui it is now trying to gag and censure those who freely express their opinions. 
If the honorable member for Denison were censured for making the remarks referred to, the party that happened to be in a majority could censure every  speaker  opposing it. I hope that the Senate will reject this ridiculous motion. 
Sci senator shall use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State parliament, or against any statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (.Senator Collings)  disapproves of a statement of a more or less political character made by the honorable member for Denison because it affects certain senators from a particular State. I ask first of all that the motion should be ruled out of order- 
If any objection is taken to the ruling or decision of the  President,  such objection must bc taken at once, and in writing. . . . 
The motion submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  expresses the extreme disapproval of the Senate of the action of a member of the other branch of the legislature in reflecting upon a secret ballot of the Senate in a statement published in the Hobart  Mercury.  The statement made by the member of another place was made, not on the  floor  of  the  House of Representatives,  but in the 
State in which the newspaper is published, and therefore I rule that the motion is in order. 
 in reply  - There is very little to which I desire to reply, because little has been said in opposition to the motion. One good result of the discussion will be that honorable senators opposite will have a more intimate acquaintance with the Standing Orders of theSenate than they have previously possessed. 
The'  PRESIDENT.  - The honorable senator is too late. He did not take exception to my ruling when it was given. 
The longer this discussion continues, the more evident it becomes that there is a definite conspiracy on the other side of the chamber to prevent the Opposition from obtaining justice, when it draws attention to a distinct breach of privilege on the part of members of Parliament and other individuals. 
SenatorFoll. - I rise to a point of order. The Government takes the strongest exception to the statement that there is a definite conspiracy to prevent the Opposition from obtaining justice. I ask that the statement be withdrawn. 
I regret that the Minister should suddenly have become so touchy. However, I withdraw the word " conspiracy " with pleasure, and say that there seems to be a definite honorable understanding among honorable senators on the other side of the chamber to allow an injustice to be done to the Senate in regard to the secrecy of the ballot. The official who conducted the ballot went to elaborate lengths to show how open and above-board everything connected with it was. He is the only man in this chamber who knows how members voted. 
I agree that he could not know how members voted unless he were unfaithful to his trust; but he could know how the votes were oast, because each honorable senator had to write on the ballot-paper, in his own handwriting, the name of the candidate for whom he voted. 
When the great legal luminaries on the other side who know so much about everything that they know little about anything come to interpret the Standing Orders, they do not help us a great deal. Had your ruling,  Mr. President,  not been what it was, I should have taken refuge in Standing Order No. 447, which reads - 447. Except so far as is expressly provided, these Standing Orders shall in no way restrict the mode in which the Senate may exercise and uphold its powers, privileges, and immunities. 
There is nothing in the Standing Orders which expressly provides that I shall not impeach a member of another place for saying what he has said. If I had done nothing else, I have at least drawn attention to something which, in the opinion of the Opposition, is serious, namely, that although this is supposed to be &amp; States House, and although we on this side belong to one party and stand to that party and its policy at all times, it is now obvious that at no stage of its proceedings is the Senate other than a party House. Every member on the Government side has declared that he is prepared to see the Senate done a supreme injustice, in that he is willing to allow one of the most sacred privileges which we so far have enjoyed, to be impinged upon by the press of this country, even when the Opposition has the courage to expose what the press has done. Before crossing the floor, honorable senators opposite should give to this matter a few moments earnest consideration. I know that in ordinary circumstances the Government has the numbers to defeat the Opposition, but surely there are times when we should put party considerations on one side and decide matters on their merits alone. The preservation of the rights and privileges of the Senate is not a party matter. Honorable senators should remember that they can bring democracy into disrepute by doing the very things  to which we are supposed to he opposed. In subtle ways, democracy is being undermined by those who submit without protest to the whittling away of their democratic rights, and seek to destroy the faith of the people in their elected representatives. If we allow these things to be done often enough, we shall have in this country, as in others, fifth-columnists and Quislings who, when the time comes, will be ready to support a dictatorship, and act contrary to those tilings which we hold so dear that, we are engaged in  a  life and death struggle for their preservation. In bringing this motion forward 1 have given to honorable senators no light opportunity; it is one of the most serious things that I have undertaken since I have been a member of this chamber. While trying to prevent me from accomplishing my purpose, Sena- tor Gibson admitted that he had seen what I am now doing done only once in twenty years. I know the occasion to which he referred. At that time there was no attack upon the institution of Parliament. Action was taken because a member of the other branch of the legislature had made statements which, at the time, were considered to be subversive. It is our privilege to conduct the affairs of the Senate in the way that we desire, and therefore I  ask  honorable senators not to vote on this motion, lightly but with a real sense of responsibility. 
Question put - 
That the motionbe agreed to. 
The Senate, divided. (The  President -  Senator the Hon.  j .cunningham .  ) 
 I have received  from  Mrs. J.  L. Price a letter ofthanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of  Mr. John  Lloyd Price. 
At the outset, I say definitely that, we on this side of the chamber approve this bill and intend to support it. There  are,  however, some things in connexion with it which ought, to be said, and I shall proceed to say them. First, it is well that honorable senators should have  a  proper conception of the power and functions of the department which deals with the matters covered by this and cognate legislation. I confess that until recently I was not aware of the widespread ramifications of the Common weal th Department of Health. If these debates do nothing else than give to us a clearer conception of the various institutions connected with our work here they certainly serve a good purpose. The Department of Health is entrusted with the administration of any subsidies paid by the Commonwealth for the assistance of efforts by State governments or public authorities for the eradication, prevention or control of disease; the administration of the  Nuffield  Trust for crippled  children; the Australian Institute of Anatomy at Canberra; the collection of sanitary data; the investigation of factors affecting health in industry; the Commonwealth serum laboratories and the commercial distribution of the products manufactured therein; the conduct of campaigns for the prevention of disease in which more than one State is interested; the discharge of refuse into the sea; the education of the public in matters of health; international hygiene iu matters affecting the Commonwealth : the investigation of the causes of disease and death, and the establishment and control of laboratories for this purpose; medical examinations of seamen and inspection of vessels under the Navigation Act and Seamen's Compensation Act; medical examinations under the Invalid ii nd Old-age Pensions and Commonwealth Public Service Acts ; medical research and National Health and Medical Research Council; methods of prevention of disease; public health administration in the Australian Capital Territory; public health and medical services in the Northern Territory; quarantine, including quarantine of animals and plants; and the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Sydney. The acts administered by gne Minister for Health are : the Australian Institute of Anatomy Agreement Acts 1924-1933; the Beaches, Fishing Grounds and Sca Routes Protection Act 1932 (section 3) ; the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937; the Quarantine Act 1908-1924; and the Therapeutic Substances Act 1937-1938. The allied Deportment of Social Services is responsible for invalid and old-age pensions, maternity allowances and national health and pensions insurance. The acts administered by that department are the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act 1908- 1937; the Maternity Act 1912-1937; the National Health and Pensions Insurance Acts 1938, 1939 ; the National Health and Pensions Insurance (Employees' Contributions) Act 1938; and  the  National Health and Pensions Insurance (Employers' Contributions) Act 1938. The trust funds administered by the Department of Health are the Medical Research Endowment Trust Fund; the National Health Campaign Trust Fund (Preschool Child Centres) ; the King George 
and Queen Mary Jubilee Trust Fund (Maternal and Infant Welfare) ; the Lord Nuffield Crippled Persons Trust Fund ; and the Serum Laboratories Trust Fund administered by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, Melbourne, and the Sub-Treasury, Melbourne. I mention these items, which I have extracted from the  Commonwealth Gazette,  because I believe that the activities of these departments are not generally understood by honorable senators. They certainly were not understood by me, and I am glad that the preparation for these few remarks gave me an opportunity to improve my knowledge concerning them. In order to inform my mind more fully in regard to the general principles involved in the bill, I have also read the journal  Health,  published by the Commonwealth Department of Health. This journal is issued monthly and if honorable senators were inclined to look at  it  I feel sure that they would feel amply repaid for the time they devoted to its study. There is no doubt that that department is doing very fine work. 
 I come now to a consideration of the bill itself. I say at once that I am strongly opposed to the Government handing over any of the activities of this department, particularly activities which will be operative under this bill, to any outside body, unless adequate steps are taken to see that the Commonwealth's power over them is retained. I want to be quite sure that no part of the power of a Commonwealth department, or the funds to bc provided under this bill, are delegated to any organization in respect of which there is not a complete measure of government control. By that I do not mean that, if such a body is composed of several representatives, the Government representatives should /be in the majority, but that power should be delegated in such a way as to retain a full measure of government control. In his secondreading speech, the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  said last night that control would be exercised by the Auditor-General in the supervision of the accounts. I am not speaking of that kind of control. I know perfectly well what the Auditor-General does. When I speak of control, I mean control of the functions and funds of the organization to which .power is delegated or to which money provided under this bill is granted. In Queensland, powers have been delegated by the department which will have control of this measure to bodies the members of which were entirely incompetent to do the wort entrusted to them. I wish it to be understood by honorable senators that I have no ulterior motives when I say that in many cases members of those organizations have no other qualification than their desire to climb the social ladder. I have no doubt that that is also true of a number of similar organisations in other States of the Commonwealth, I do not object to that, provided that the activities of these bodies are confined to the successful prosecution of the task entrusted to them. I object to handing over any powers to religious interests. It is entirely wrong to utilize public money for the subsidizing of the activities of any religious body, not because these people may not be sympathetic or have nefarious designs, but because once we begin to subsidize a particular institution, it becomes impossible to hold the balance fairly between the different denominations. 
I am unable to understand the reason for making practically one-half the grant of £20,000 to universities. I am the last to say one word against our universities. I regard them as valuable institutions, performing a very useful function in the education of our people; but I want to know why Commonwealth money is to go to universities in order to enable them to engage in activities which can never reach those people who will never be able to send their children to the universities. I realize, of course, that in our universities there are hundreds of students who come from the ranks of the working classes, but they still have to be financed by their parents, and it therefore must be assumed that their parents are in a better position financially than are other people. Generally speaking, however, universities are mostly availed of by students who are anxious to enter the learned professions. "Wealthy people can afford to pay for national fitness facilities  out  of their own pockets. 
I am opposed to patronage in any circumstances, and I do not like the idea that the wealthy classes should be specially pandered to rather than the masses. I believe that none of this money to be provided under this measure should be made available to any university unless it is already actually undertaking work of this kind. If that were done, a good deal of my objection to the granting of money to universities for the purposes set out in this bill would disappear. At the University of Queensland special training is being given to a staff of physical training instructors. The Queensland University Senate was able during 1940 to see its way to establish both certificate and diploma courses in physical education in that State, as from the commencement of the academic year 1941. Those courses are now in operation, the enrolments for the current year being twelve for the certificate course - four men and eight women - and twenty for the diploma course - ten men and ten women. The subjects of both courses include hygiene, first aid, appropriate elementary anatomy ' and physiology, callisthenics, theory, and organization of games, gymnastics, swimming and life saving, boxing and fencing for men. and dancing for women. The diploma course includes also psychology, voice culture and speech training, and elementary chemistry and physics. There is nothing in this bill to provide that the universities shall provide courses of that kind if they get the money. 
In all these matters we should be careful to distinguish between cause and effect. I am so continually making this remark on various subjects that I fear sometimes that I may become wearisome. I believe that every piece of legislation having for its object the improvement of social services that has been brought before us has always failed to distinguish between causes and effects. Social welfare work in this country or in any other country can never be successful unless both causes and effects are tackled. Unless equal attention be given to causes, as the years pass and the order of society under which we live develops to greater intensity, the effects will become more and more prevalent. It would be much wiser to erect an unclimbable fence at the top of a cliff to prevent accidents than to provide an ambulance at the bottom to deal with the effects. This is an economic question. I have read with a great deal of interest the investigations of the National Nutrition Council, a body of men and women who, in the best spirit, do something which in this age of plenty is absolutely astounding, if not worse. They bend all their energies to discover how little a man, woman and child can live on, how cheaply we can live, and how little leisure and little recreation we need. Just imagine such a task in this age of plenty when Nature is bounteous on every hand, and modern machinery has increased the productivity of man a thousandfold! Having found the minimum of the decencies of life upon which people can exist, this benign Government makes £20,000 available for a national fitness campaign. We in Australia are very backward in this matter. The Minister in charge of the bill will probably say that is the very reason why this measure has been brought down. But I emphasize that in order to tackle this problem as it must be tackled the Government must start at the right end and with vision, and provide adequate finance. This proposal is not new. Germany, probably, has done more to make its people physically fit than any other country. We know, unfortunately, the evil use to which it has put the results of such education. Russia, Sweden and Denmark also have done wonderful things in improving the physical fitness of their peoples. Even Great Britain, which some people are unfair and unwise enough to say is a decadent nation, spends on physical fitness, on a population basis, ten times as much as we propose to provide under this measure. Great Britain devotes that huge expenditure to that purpose in spite of its many other pressing social problems, such as slums. All honorable senators have heard of the international sports gatherings, known as the Olympic Games, at which every kind of physical sport is provided for. All of the countries I have mentioned, and many others, provide swimming pools and play ing fields on a large scale in the interests of the health of their peoples. I was hopeful that in the definition clause of this measure I should find a definition of physical fitness. However, that clause defines only terms used in the measure. I want to ask one question. Has this scheme been designed solely to provide sufficient physically fit men and women for war, or for life? There is only one solution, to this problem of national unfitness. We must proceed to fit ourselves for life, not for war.I should be glad to see in the measure some stipulation that none of the activities which will be encouraged will be of a military character,but will be purely of a physical character, designed to develop and ensure the physical and mental health of our people. 
In that connexion I was very delighted to read the following remarks which were made recently by the Minister for Health  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  :  - 
We are expending a tremendous amount of money and thought in ensuring the fitness of our mechanical elements of defence, but I am old-fashioned enough to believe that, however efficient our mechanical aids may be, unless we also have a fit personnel in Australia, they will not avail us very much. This is an age of machines and mechanized warfare, but behind the machines, in the shops, or on the battlefield, there must be fit men and women to man the machines, and, above all, provision to ensure the continued fitness of the children and young folk to whom we will hand on the heritage for which we are now fighting. Whilst we are now preoccupied with national fitness in order to survive, we must not forget the ultimate goal of fitness in order to enjoy life. 
The Minister for Health began by saying that he was old-fashioned enough to believe what I have just read. To that statement I reply "Hear! Hear!"; and assure the honorable gentleman, and honorable senators generally, that I, too, am old-fashioned enough to believe that while we are now concerned with national fitness in order to survive, we must not forget the ultimate goal of physical fitness for the enjoyment of life. I am very glad that the measure has been introduced. It will not be opposed by  honorable members on this side. However, I say to the Government that, just as we cannot solve post-war problems if we wait until the war ends, we cannot improve physical fitness of our manpower for war if we delay undertaking the work until war is upon us. But, that is what is being done now. Or, is it possible, perhaps, that we are already getting ready for the next war? I hope not. This measure is belated. 
It was inaugurated before the war, but not before every one knew that war was imminent. I repeat that unless we tackle post-war problems now we shall not be able to cope with them when the war is over. All creation has known for years that many of our people are living in slums, and that they and their children are undernourished. The list of administrative organizations which I have just read out indicates that the problem is being tackled in some sort of fashion. But for a long time we have known that our birthrate has been declining, and that wo are becoming a nation of old men, whilst a section of our people are becoming increasingly unfit physically. Yet, all the persuasive eloquence of honorable senators on this side over those many years has been exercised in vain in our attempts to awaken the Government to its responsibilities in this matter. 
I repeat that the Opposition welcomes the measure. We regret that the Government did not awaken to its responsibilities long ago, and that even now it is not prepared to undertake the expenditure necessary to do this job properly. Anticipating the reply of the Minister in charge of the bill, I say that it will be useless to tell us that sufficient, money cannot be found for this work. If the Government is really prepared to do it, we can find millions in order to ensure a high physical standard among our people as we are now forced to do for war. Unfortunately, the struggle in which we are now engaged has been forced upon us; it was not of our seeking. But we have accepted the challenge, and we must see the struggle through, because it is a fight for survival, and the pre servation of the ideals in which we believe. However, the provision of so small a sum as £20,000 a year for five years for this purpose is ridiculous. I see no reason why a sum of £100,000 could not be provided for this purpose for this year, and greater sums in subsequent years. The Government should set up its own machinery to handle this scheme rather than hand' over any of its powers, administrative or financial, to State authorities. It should establish a special department to undertake this work, the results of which will be not only of value to Australia but also a beacon light to other nations. I hope that the bill will  hp.  passed. 
I agree with many of the views expressed by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  in his second-reading speech. My main criticism of the measure is that it does not go far enough. The Minister said that Commonwealth money was allotted for two main purposes, (a) organizing expenses; (fc) subsidies to the universities for the establishment of diploma courses. This measure mentions none of the things which must be done in order to make our people physically fit, namely, the provision of adequate food, clothing and shelter for our people, particularly our children. No provision is made in the bill for that purpose. I am very surprised at that omission, and I hope that the Minister, when he is replying to the debate, will give reasons for it, particularly as the attention of the Government was directed to the necessity existing in this regard by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness. I take the following from the minutes of the fourth session of that body held at the Institute of Anatomy, Canberra, on the 9th and 10th May, 1940 :- 
On the 8th May the six organizers who had been appointed by the States met in  conference  willi the Director-General of Health as  Chairman,  and, having considered all phases of thu work, passed a series of resolutions. These resolutions were later considered by the Commonwealth Council. On the 9th May, the council met the organizers for an informal discussion of the points raised on the previous day and for a general discussion of the administrative problems met during the campaign. 
The six organizers present were: Victoria.  Dr. A.  G. Scholes;  Now South Wales,  Mr. G.  Vining: South Australia,  Mr. B.  F. G. Apps: 
Queensland, Mr.E. V. Harris; Western Australia,  Mr. J.  O'Donoghue; and Tasmania,  Mr. R.  VonBertouch. 
Those gentlemen apparently had met and discussed the position of national fitness. Among other things they recommended - 
It is recognized asa basic principle that any campaign Tor national fitnessmust have continual regard to the medical condition of the people.Such provision should be made for the partially disabled and the partially unfit as will assist their return to physical efficiency. The very large section of the population which, while suffering no recognizable specific defect, are yet of a physical standard lower than normal, must be provided with activities ona less strenuous level than the normal standard of physical exercises. There is also a large class of subnormal physical standard whose condition is to be remedied rather by economic or nutritional means than by physical culture - to which they are unable readily to respond. This implies that, if this campaign is to he successful in terms of "national fitness", medical services should be available to the apparently healthy but physically subnormal population on a very much more extended scale than at present. Particularly is it necessary that instructors or leaders of physical culture classes or courses should have readily available the services of medical men. To some, but not nearly an adequate, extent the State medical services provide this for schools. There is. however, still much to be done in this direction, and the Council recommends that the State Councils review this matter as one of immediate practical importance in this campaign. The National Health and Medical Research Council is also invited to consider this matter. 
That report emphasizes convincingly the point made by the Leader of the Opposition  ('Senator Collings)  and myself, namely, that before national fitness can be achieved to the degree mentioned by the Minister in his second-reading speech, the people must be provided with food, clothing, housing, and all other things necessary to build up their physical structure so that they may undergo physical training. I am astounded that the Government has not given consideration to this matter. That is not the only suggestion that has been put forward. In the report of the fifth session of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness, held on the 4th and 5th November, 1940, attention is drawn to the same, matter. Paragraph  e  of resolution 4 of that council states - 
Increased health grant for wider tuberculosis examination service, dental service, Royal Life Saving Society, milk distribution, school meals. 
That council has boon in existence since 1939but it appears that little notice is taken of its recommendations. Paragraphf of resolution 4 states - 
It shouldbe noted that every improvement in housing conditions is a factor in raising the standard of national fitness. 
It can be seen, therefore, that there is more in the problem of national fitness than the mere allocation of money for organizing expenses, subsidies to universities, &amp;c. According to a report which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on the 18th June,  Dr. Dale,  the Health Officer for the City of Melbourne expressed the following opinion: - 
Children livinginthe inner areas of the metropolis are of inferior physique compared with those living in the outer suburbs. 
Charts showing heights and weights of children disclose that although there has been a noticeable improvement on the . 191 2-1921 standard, those in the inner industrial areas are definitely inferior in physique. There is evidence of widespread malnutrition and deficiency disease. The average condition of boys now living in a boys' home in Victoria, is deplorably below the standard that could be attained. 
Therefore, in the view of the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness itself, and of  Dr. Dale,  the City Health Officer of Melbourne, these children who are expected to become physically fit arc not even properly fed. I should like to know whether the Government; has considered that matter. Has the Government made any provision to ensure that that deficiency of food, clothing and shelter is made up? If not, national fitness is an impossibility. I do not know whether itis the intention of the Government that the Social Security Committee should go into that matter and make recommendations, but I consider that it is necessary to draw attention to that phase of the position, and in doing so I should like to elaborate what the Leader of the Opposition has said in regard to the relationship between cause and. effect. The subnormal and under-fed children mentioned in  Dr. Dale's  report and in the report of the National Fitness Council, are the result of inadequate wages, unemployment, poverty and slum conditions generally, and unless the Government attacks this problem first the £20,000 will be practically wasted. Unless the Government is prepared to do something to remove the underlying causes of starved physiques, and the conditions which have made children incapable of responding to training, the money can do little good. I do not think that argument can be refuted. Therefore, while I support the bill I think that we are entitled to expect a great deal more than it provides. Just to give an idea of what can be done by proper feeding I direct attention to the position of the unemployed in Melbourne before the war started, when thousands of people were suffering from the effects of insufficient food, clothing and housing. Some of the unemployed joined the various services, and after a few months of good food, clothing and housing, medical and dental attention, most of them improved almost beyond recognition. I know that  to be true from my own personal knowledge, having known the men before they enlisted and having come into contact with them frequently since. It seems therefore, that national fitness requires first of all as a suitable foundation and basis, a guarantee by the Government that the children will be provided with adequate food, clothing and shelter and, as the report of the Council for National Fitness suggests, medical and dental attention. ' I do not wish to go beyond that point. I doubt whether it is necessary to emphasize it any further. If the Minister will tell us  what the Government intends to do in the direction I have indicated, we shall be in a position to assess what the result of the campaign will be. If nothing is to be done, the £20,000 will merely provide a few people with fees for writing reports. From a national point of view it will do no practical good, and we shall continue on a catch-as-catch-can basis until the position becomes so acute that drastic action will bc necessary. When war broke out, it was found not only in thi3 country but also in. almost every other country, that the men who were to be called upon to fight had first to be fed. If we are wise we shall benefit from that experience, and while the opportunity offers take the . children in hand and see that they are properly looked after. If that be done national fitness will be possible, but if it be not done there will be no hope of achieving national fitness. 
I support the bill because I think that physical fitness should be the first concern of every nation. I have been associated with athletics for more than 50 years, and, in fact, I am a life member of the Tasmanian Amateur Athletic Association. I admire a good physique both in a man and in a woman. I agree with  Senator Cameron  that physical fitness should.start in the cradle. When Cecil Rhodes made his great bequest to the universities of the Empire, he stipulated that Rhodes scholars should be physically fit, because he believed that sometimes a great intellect was wasted through lack of physical fitness. I notice that a great deal of the money to be voted will go to the various universities. I was once a timekeeper in connexion with university sports, and 1 noticed on one occasion that more undergraduates were sitting down smoking cigarettes than were participating in the sports that were in progress. Ten or a dozen competitors seemed to provide the whole of the afternoon's entertainment. The largest entries were received for the egg-and-spoon race. The students seemed more interested in carrying an egg on a spoon for 50 yards without dropping it than running a quarter of a mile. 1 remarked to the chancellor on that occasion that I would favour the endowment of a chair of athletics, and compel all students to take a course in' that subject. I should like to know how the money proposed to he made available to universities is to be expended, and whether the universities will train men as physical instructors. The expenditure should be £200,000 a year rather than £20,000 a year. Social security is a prerequisite to an athletic race, and there can be no economic security without a change of the monetary system. The economic conditions of the working classes have brought ' about adverse medical reports regarding the physical condition of many of the young people of to-day. I am aware that school teachers in Hobart work hard to improve the physical condition of the pupils, and I believe that they are obtaining good results1, but I am doubtful whether the Government proposes to use the money to be made available by this measure to the best advantage. The Police Club in North Sydney is doing exceedingly useful work, and, in my opinion, the £20,000 to be voted would be better expended in endowing existing athletic clubs so that they might employ qualified instructors. The universities are attended chiefly by the children of the well-to-do classes. 
It is not necessary to speak at great length on this motion, because every member of the Senate must agree that organization of the kind proposed by the Government is required. It is regrettable that we did not launch a campaign to bring about physical fitness in the community many years ago. I 3peak with feeling on this matter, because I have had years of experience among the workers in the land that gave me birth. When I was in the Old Country, which is now fighting for its existence, millions of workers suffered severely because no attention was directed to the subject of physical fitness; indeed, such were the conditions of the working class that it was practically impossible for men and women to become mentally and physically fit. I remember taking an active part in the municipal and political campaigns of that period. I mixed with the submerged tenth, and with those on the lowest rung of the economic ladder. I can remember calling at the homes of men and women and meeting them in the evenings on their return from work. On seeing the food they ate, I often wondered how it was possible for them to exist. In one home, in which there were eight children, jam tins were used instead of cups, and the only food, the family had was dried bread. This was supplemented with weak tea. I do not believe that any Australian can appreciate the fearful conditions under which many of those people lived. Members of the Labour movement in England at that time worked hard on bodies such as municipal councils in an effort to see that families of the workers were properly fed. In Bradford, to mention one instance, I remember the benefit derived by the children when they were provided with food and milk. The physical and mental development that followed as a result of improvement of their food supply was indeed, remarkable. 
It is a blot on the history of Great Britain that many millions have suffered through under-feeding and disgraceful housing conditions. As a result of the lack of the ordinary amenities of life, many men and women are undersized, and it is not surprising that their physical and mental development is not equal to that of the workers in Australia. If we are to develop a race of men and women who will be sound in mind and body, they must first be properly fed. It must be said of Germany, despite the degradation to which it has sunk, that in the old days of Bismarck and the Kaiser, the military authorities insisted, that the workers should be fed, clothed and housed properly. As a result of this attention the workers reached a higher standard, physically and mentally, than many of those in Great Britain. Deplorable conditions in industrial areas have come under our notice, even in Australia. A  nian  whom F have known for 30 years was out of work, and his wife and children, through lack of food, contracted sores on their bodies which did not disappear until a. doctor made provision for them to be properly fed with milk and vegetables. Six months after they had recovered from the sores, the improved diet was discontinued, with the result that the disability was again experienced. The doctor said that there were hundreds of workers in the industrial districts of Sydney who were suffering similarly. I agree with honorable senators that in this physical fitness campaign, the first essential is to see that all boys and girls are properly fed. 
I was glad to hear the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  say that those behind the machines in workshops and on the battlefields must be healthy men, and that we must ensure the continued physical fitness of our young people. He said that we must not forget our ultimate goal - fitness to enjoy life. Of course, people cannot enjoy life unless they are fit and well fed. If they are well developed mentally and physically they can get the best out of life, which is the ideal of the great Labour and Socialist movements throughout the world. 
It was stated by the Minister, in referring to the national fitness campaign, that this movement has found expression in such directions as the formation of police boys' clubs, municipal physical fitness centres, permanent country camps, summer schools for the training of group leaders, and a Youth Hostel Association. These varied movements are better than a single movement such as the  Ballila  in Italy. I urn pleased that they are widespread, because 1 should hate to see regimentation of the people. In countries such as Italy and Germany, we have witnessed the development of a mass mind, and the crushing of individual initiative. In. Australia, initiative is well developed, but in Italy, the children of working men and. women are given toy guns and are formed into organizations of little soldiers. In this way, the children are regimented and their initiative is suppressed. In Australia the danger of regimentation is avoided. We do not want to be like Fascist Italy or Nazi Germany where the mind of the youth of the country is destroyed in order to build up a. strong military machine. Physical exercise has a beneficial influence on the mind. I sometimes think that when we sit here hour after hour there is a. tendency for our minds to become so muddled that we cannot deal properly with the legislation that comes before us. Carrel in his work  Man, the Unknown  tells us that - 
Certain exercises appear to stimulate thought. For this raison perhaps, Aristotle and his disciples were in the habit of walking while discussing the fundamental problems of philosophy and science. 
Had the Senate been a peripatetic chamber the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  and  'Senator Crawford,  instead of glaring at each other yesterday and giving an exhibition of that innate antagonism that dwells in all men, could have gone for a. walk, in which event the debate might have been lifted to a higher plane. When men are crowded into confined areas they are inclined to say things that they would not say in a healthier atmosphere. If in the summer months some of our proceedings were conducted in God's sunshine the unfortunate happenings of yesterday could not have taken place. I hope that the two honorable senators who figured so prominently in yesterday's proceedings have got over their mental indisposition and will soon shake hands and be friends. It is regrettable that men who have belonged to the same political party for a number of years should descend to attack each other in public. 
It is splendid to see an exhibition of militancy in corpulent and grey-headed senators, because it shows that the race is not decadent, and that the fighting spirit still exists, but a more appropriate place for such an exhibition would be on the battlefields of Syria. Perhaps it would be a good thing to send word to the new commander of our forces in the Middle East that in this Senate there ure men in whom the fighting spirit is strongly developed. 
-- I admire the fighting qualities of my leader. I prefer to see those qualities expressed as he expresses them rather than in as it were disembowelling some other human being. I believe that within the next few years great changes will come over the world. The fighting spirit, which is now exemplified in the heroic deeds of our men on the field of battle, will be sublimated, and instead of men sticking bayonets into the bowels of their fellow-men they will direct their activities towards improving the lot of mankind generally; instead of destroying our cities with bombs let loose from mechanical birds, men will set about building the city beautiful. I disagree with those who say that wars will never cease. I firmly believe that the destruction of human life and materials in this war will be so terrible that mankind will be forced to learn the lesson that their strength should be used for the betterment of all mankind rather than in the destruction of their fellows. I commend, to honorable senators who desire to understand human beings and the human body Carrel's  Man. the Unknown. 
On page 53 of that book the following appears : - 
One  cannot  understand the living being by studying a dead body, for the tissues of a corpse have been deprived of their circulating blood and of their functions. In reality, an organ separated from its nutritive medium no longer exists. 
That is true. The world contains numbers of specialists who concentrate on different parts of the body; but in order to be successful as a specialist a man must understand the functions of each part of the body. Some of the most ignorant men in the world are specialists. They are ignorant because they have  spent  a lifetime in studying one phase of a big subject, whether it be one part of a body, one section of humanity, or one page in the Book of Time. There is a growing realization that we must have regard to things as a whole. In considering so important a matter as national fitness, we must have regard, not merely to the expenditure of, say, £20,000 a year for the training in our universities of a few teachers who, in turu, will train our children. One of the most hateful things associated with my schooldays was the inarching which we had to do each day. I do not believe in that sort of thing. Just as Carrel looks on the human body as a whole, so we must regard, the economic body as a whole. We must do our duty to the boys and girls who are brought into the world by seeing that they have the food, clothing and shelter necessary to lay the foundations of physical fitness. This bill provides something in that direction, and to the degree that it does so it is acceptable to the Opposition; but we hope that the Government will go further and deal with this matter in a bigger way, by providing not only for the physical fitness of the people, but also for the development of their minds so that they will be, in fact, images of the living God. 
I am pleaded to support the bill; it reveals a recognition by the Government of the importance to the nation of the physical fitness of its people. I am not convinced, however, that the measure before us will do a great deal to meet the wishes of the people. It provides chiefly for physical training education at, schools and universities. Although I approve the bill, and congratulate theMinister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  on having the honour to introduce it, I feel that the education should begin much earlier than is proposed. We must commence with antenatal treatment, and continue with natal treatment, post-natal treatment, public clinics, dental service and all that is necessary to ensure a generally strong physique among the people of this country. It is not satisfactory to me to know that £20,000 is to be expended annually for five years in the manner indicated in this bill. I believe that this measure is the beginning of legislation which will have  a  beneficial effect on the health of the community. The question of health and of hospital service is associated with this measure. A great deal more education of mothers in the proper way to feed their children is necessary. It is the duty of the nation to see that its children have the food, clothing and shelter necessary for their proper development. The nation should also undertake the responsibility of instructing mothers in matters affecting diet. The Queensland Government has instituted a splendid hospital system. I was associated with one hospital in that State for several years, and it grieved me greatly to see children who, because of the straitened financial circumstances of their parents, were obviously in need of medical and dental treatment. This National Parliament should endeavour to enlighten the people in these matters, particularly in respect of the value of proper diet. I am pleased that I have lived to see a bill of this kind introduced, but I am not satisfied, that the Government has got to the root of the matter. It should begin at the beginning. I am  not  convinced that the proper place to start is at our schools and universities. I ann more concerned with those who dwell in the dark corners of our cities, and with children who have no proper playgrounds where they can develop happy and healthy bodies. The press of Australia should co-operate with the Government in a big educational campaign setting out the value of proper food and care of the body. If the Commonwealth Government were to tackle this problem  seriously, and seek the co-operation of the States, a great deal more could he done. I admit that the policy of the Government will be reflected in a more healthy people, but I repeat that we must begin earlier, deal with- every child from the day that it is born. In cooperation with the States, a sound health policy should be evolved, so that every child in the community, regardless of the financial position of its parents, may be ensured of proper care. I congratulate the Minister upon the introduction of this measure, and I express the hope that its scope will soon be enlarged so that every man, woman and child in the community may be sure of proper medical attention whenever  Lt  is needed. That is not the position to-day. In Queensland we have perhaps a better hospital system than exists in any other State. The Queensland Government accepts responsibility to a very great degree for the health of every man, woman and child in the community. Adequate arrangements have been made to see that proper medical, dental and hospital care is provided.' In the inauguration of this national fitness scheme the Commonwealth should co-operate with those States which are already doing excellent work in this regard. The Commonwealth should encourage the States in every way to provide uniform health services throughout the length and breadth of Australia - confined not only to children and adults, but also to young babies. Every attempt should be made to improve pre-natal services. If that were done, the improvement of the physical and mental standard of the community would quickly follow. One of the greatest needs of the less fortunate members of the community to-day is an improved free hospital and dental service. I remember only too well when a working man had to be almost on his last legs before he could gain admission to a hospital. If he were unable to pay for treatment, his chart was marked " pauper ". I am pleased to have lived to see an alteration of the views of those governing the people of Australia in regard to these matters. Nevertheless, I believe that we could go very much further in providing medical and health services. To neglect the health and welfare of the people of this country is to incur an inevitable national loss. 
A great deal of ignorance prevails to-day in regard to diet. Every honorable senator has been appalled at the number of young men rejected for military service on the ground of ill health. The reason for the large number of rejections can be attributed more to the fact that the parents of these young men were ignorant of food values than that they were unable to procure good wholesome food for them. It is the duty of this National Parliament to co-operate with the States in the education of the people in dietetics as a means to prevent disease. It is proposed' by this bill to make grants to State universities and schools for the training of physical culture instructors. I believe that money expended in that direction will not touch the fringe of the problem. I am satisfied more with the speech of the Minister than with the bill itself. I believe that the Minister is imbued with the right ideas on this subject and I am hopeful that, as experience is gained in the operation of this legislation, the Government will realize the imperative necessity for the enlargement of the States' schemes for pre-natal care. It is gratifying to know that we have reached the stage to-day when all parties realize the need for a campaign of the kind envisaged in this bill, and are aware of their responsibilities to see that every person in the community is able to secure the necessaries of life. If the Government keeps these objectives constantly before it we can look forward confidently to a great improvement of the conditions of the people generally. I support the bill and trust that it is but the forerunner of another measure designed to make provision' for improving the health standards of pre-school children. 
I support the bill, although I find myself in much the same position in regard to it as I was placed when the measure dealing with youth employment was introduced into the Senate some time ago. I regard the provision of £20,000 as absolutely inadequate to do more than touch the fringe of the problem, especially in view of the fact that so many of our  people of all age3, from young babies to adults, are suffering from the effects of malnutrition. Every honorable senator realizes what an enormous task confronts those responsible for a campaign of national fitness. As the bill is drafted, it appears that it will benefit only certain sections of the community. In his secondreading speech the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  said that the measure had a twofold purpose; first, to provide organizing expenses and, second, to grant subsidies to universities for the establishment of diploma courses. If the Commonwealth acted in complete co-operation with the States, organizing expenses in connexion with a scheme of this kind could be considerably lessened. As the Minister is no doubt aware, many of the States, including Tasmania, have their own national fitness organizations and are already doing much more than the Commonwealth Government proposes to do when this measure is placed on the statutebook. What is the purpose of these diploma courses? Are they to be provided for the education of doctors to specialize in nutrition and diet, and in the proper care of children, for the education of dentists to provide a free clinical service to the community, or are these courses to be provided for the training of instructors in physical training? 
That is a better description. The Minister has not enlightened us in regard to these points. For any physical fitness campaign to bc successful it must make provision for safeguarding the health of expectant mothers. 
Unfortunately we can do but little to improve the physical fitness of the great number of people who are suffering from the effects of malnutrition at an earlier period of their lives, hut by educating the people in regard to diet and nutrition we can save future generations from the curse of malnutrition. I agree with  Senator Courtice  that every effort should be made to cooperate with the State Governments. The 
Tasmanian Government has already instituted a free medical scheme for all children in certain areas, and, in addition, it has established dental clinics in many centres. If these facilities were extended throughout the length and breadth of Australia there would be a great improvement of the physical standard of the people generally. All the physical jerks in the world cannot do much to improve the physical standard of those who are suffering from the effects of malnutrition. Dealing with malnutrition and diet recently,  Sir John  Boyd said - 
The Committee of Scientists appointed by the League of Nations to investigate nutritional needs  reccommended  for each child 2 pints of milk a day,  I  egg, or its yoke, a certain amount of fruit and vegetables, together with few commonly used foods. The committee stated that if such a diet were made available to every person it would ensure the disappearance of' all disease, ill-health and poor physique clue to faulty diet. 
Instead of bringing in this scheme it seems that the Government would have done more good by taking steps to ensure that every child in the community is adequately fed. The foundations of the scheme should be laid in the cradle. To-day we are spending tens of millions of pounds on the training of soldiers for war purposes. To our dismay we have found that one-half of those called up for military service have been rejected because of the effects of malnutrition in their earlier years. In this measure we are hut putting the cart before the horse. If we are genuinely desirous of making this a nation of physically fit men and women we must first of all wipe out the slum areas that exist in every city and country town of any size in the Commonwealth. In addition, we must take steps to improve the conditions of those tens of thousands of workers who are endeavouring to bring up their families on less than the basic wage. With prices soaring as the result of the war, what hope has a man on the basic wage of buying the necessaries of life for himself and his family in sufficient quantities to enable them to develop healthy and sturdy bodies? The Government should tackle this problem in a national way. It should first explore all the possibilities of the extension of existing State schemes. 
Unless that be done there must be inevitable overlapping. Already some of the States have financed fitness campaigns without any assistance from the Commonwealth. During the depression years and right up to 1935 we heard nothing about physical fitness campaigns in this country, although at that time thousands of our children were practically starving. The Government should now awake to a realization of the fact that the physical unfitness of many of our people to-day is due in a large degree to the treatment meted out to them in their years of adolescence. The Government must go right to the bottom of this problem. Reforms of this kind must start with the infant, because only by providing proper housing and food, and medical and dental clinics for the care of our children can wc give them a chance to develop into healthy men and women. If this war should continue for many years, or should it be followed by another war, just as this conflict litis followed upon the war of 1914-lS, we shall, undoubtedly, have brought home to us the necessity for providing millions of pounds, in order to ensure a high standard of physical fitness among our people. Only by that means shall we be enabled to make full use of our available manpower in our fight for freedom. In such circumstances neither this nor any other Government would bc so negligent as to tolerate conditions similar to those existing in the past, and which really explain the rejection, to-day of so great a percentage of young men who are presenting themselves for enlistment in our armed forces. Had a proper national fitness campaign been inaugurated even twenty years ago, we should not now be paying the penalty in that way for our neglect of this duty in the past. The physical standard of these rejects is due solely to malnutrition in their adolescent years, and the responsibility for that evil must be attributed to bad government. 
I welcome the bill. It is evidence of the Government's realization of its duty to ensure that the next generation shall have a far greater chance of becoming mentally and physically fit than was enjoyed by the generation on which we are now obliged to depend largely for our soldiers. The Government has started this work on the right lines. Perhaps it might be better if national fitness, and all activities associated with it, were controlled directly by the National Parliament. However, during recent years, the Commonwealth and the State Governments have inaugurated their own systems of health administration, each of which includes a degree of physical education along with the provision of hospital and dental treatment, and clinics for the care of infants. It is noteworthy, however, that no co-ordinated basis has yet, been evolved for the supervision of ibis most important work throughout the Commonwealth as a. whole. I believe that, we should achieve far greater results if national fitness were the direct responsibility of the national Parliament. I emphasize that the value of such a campaign would be greatly increased if it. provided for the welfare of the antenatal child, because a strong, robust baby has far greater opportunities than a puny child to develop into a healthy adult. The former has everything in its favour right from its birth. 
Campaigns of physical fitness are not new to Australia. The great majority of Australians are naturally physicalfitness minded. I was interested to hear  Senator Brown's  remarks concerning the difficulties of developing physical fitness in the Old Country when he was a boy. However, in this country, with its glorious sunshine and long, sweeping ocean benches, it is not surprising that the Australian shows a. natural inclination for sport and, consequently, in the majority of cases, grows into healthy manhood and womanhood without experiencing the need for any special education or assistance from a governmental institution. Nevertheless, the assistance which such a body can render in this direction will no doubt effect an improvement in the liealr.li of our community as n whole. We cannot emphasize too often that a healthy body creates a healthy mind, and that a mentally healthy community is to be preferred to n purely physically healthy community. This measure represents only a beginning in this work, but it should give a pronounced impetus to national fitness education in this country. 1 say without hesitation that the more we can do to induce our youth, without distinction of class, to engage in sport or in any activity which will improve their physique, the more we shall do to break down sectional barriers which have been the cause of so much distress, and, indeed, uprisings in many countries of the world. The encouragement which this activity will give to our youth to meet and mix in games, sport and physical culture, will inculcate among our younger generation a better feeling and understanding than exists between them at present. I sincerely hope that thi? scheme is only the beginning of an undertaking which will prove to be of the greatest assistance in bringing every section of our community together in the atmosphere of healthy recreation and sport. I support the measure. 
.-! support the bill. With honorable senators on both sides of the chamber, I hope that it represents an instalment of the promised new order. To me nothing appears to be more essential to the welfare of our people than legislation of this kind. As I have been blessed with physical fitness all my life, and have never known hunger, I am, perhaps, more observant in these matters than the man who has not been so fortunate.  Senator Cooper  struck a very pertinent note when he emphasized the importance of a healthy-minded, as well as a physically healthy, community. Small as is the effort being made by the Government on this occasion, I believe that this work will be increased as the years go on. The fact that we are engaged in a war is not a sufficient excuse for neglecting this duty towards our people. Recently, when I visited Sydney I was greatly impressed with the work being performed by the Police Boys' Club among the children in the slums in that city. I then saw many of the boys who are deriving benefit from the organization, through which they are being enabled to develop to healthy manhood, and to realize that the police are not their enemies but their friends in the maintenance of law and order. Thai club has already produced many outstanding athletes. I share the hope that this scheme will be extended to embrace boys and girls at as early an age as possible. The community generally is; becoming educated to such schemes. More money should be provided for this purpose. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  pointed out, we should now, on a basis of population, be providing not £20,000, but £200,000, if we approached this work as enthusiastically as Great Britain, which is generally regarded as being a long way behind us in social reform. In view of the colossal sums being expended on war, we should have no difficulty in raising sufficient money to undertake this work properly, particularly as any scheme that will enable our children to develop into healthy manhood and womanhood is an investment of incalculable benefit to the nation. Anything that the Government does along these lines will, I believe, be supported by every member of this Parliament. Of course, I could speak at length on the fact that this effort is belated, but I do not intend to criticize the Government on that point. I believe that, despite the necessity for colossal war expenditure, the outstanding realization to-day is that this conflict can be pressed .to a successful conclusion only by a united, healthy and determined people. For that reason, I welcome this instalment of a necessary reform. 
-  in reply  - At the outset I should like to disabuse the minds of honorable senators on one point. In this bill there is no mention of money. 
I said that two years ago the Government had decided to make available £20,000 a year for five years, but no specific amount is mentioned in this bill. It refers only to the creation of a fund into which the money shall be placed. If the Government wants to pla.ee more money into that fund, it can do so because no limitation is imposed by this measure. As I have said, already that £20,000 ha3 been increased to £22,500. Having listened to speeches by honorable senators, I do not know whether I have been patted on the back or hit on the head. There seems to have been a misunderstanding of the purpose of this bill. Obviously what several honorable senators had in mind was a regimentation of the young people of Australia doing physical jerks. That is entirely wrong. This is an educational bill to provide the proper knowledge, not to individuals of the community, but to those who will instruct individuals. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  objected to the money being made available to institutions such as universities and suggested that it would be expended in teaching university students and school pupils various physical exercises. That is a wrong conception. The money is to enable the universities to set up faculties and lectureships of physical fitness, similar to, say, medical schools. Those faculties will train selected instructors who will make a study and a career of various aspects of physical training including diet and so on.  Senator Cameron  quoted from the report of the fifth session of the Australian Council of National Fitness. The recommendation which he quoted read - 
Increased health grant for wider tuberculosis examination service, dental service, Royal Life Saving Societies, milk distribution, school meals. 
Apparently the honorable senator forgot to look at the beginning of the resolution, the opening words of which state :  - 
Resolution 4. 
The council considers that the following aspects of the development of national fitness are important and should be further encouraged and assisted by State Governments - 
The honorable senator was blaming the Commonwealth Government for not doing something in that direction. 
I agree with other honorable senators, particularly with  Senator Cooper,  who made a thoughtful speech, that the health of a people cannot be built up merely by doing exercises. There are wider aspects such as pre-natal, post-natal, and maternal care, and many others, but there are in existence now special bodies which deal with such matters.I do not want honorable senators to think that, although there is no specific mention of them in this bill, that they are being neglected. As a matter of fact, the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness passed the following resolution last year :  - 
In respect of ante-natal, post-natal, maternal care, infant welfare and pre-school activities, it is known that much is being done through existing State and voluntary organizations.  As  the state of national fitness depends so fundamentally upon the success of this work, it is important that the State and voluntary machinery should be encouraged and extended us much as is possible. While this council might, in association with the National Health and Medical Research Council, make a survey of the situation with the object of defining the directions in which improvements might be made, it is not considered that the Commonwealth should, as part of the activities of the council, provide any financial subsidy. 
The object of this bill is to provide the subsidiary bodies with properly educated and trained instructors. A man who does not know his job and is ignorant of uptodate methods can do more harm than good. For instance, there is one treatment for a fully developed person, and  a  whole range of other treatment for pupils in various stages of development and in various degrees of health. This bill aims at educating and training instructors so that they can go out and guide the people of Australia on the right lines. The Leader of the Opposition objected to giving money to bodies over which the Commonwealth Government has no control. Obviously, it would be impossible to have a representative of the Commonwealth Government on all bodies that may participate in this grant. I ask honorable senators to consider what that would mean. There are dozens of these organizations all over Australia, and it would be impossible for the Commonwealth Government to be directly represented on each one of them. 
Our Pensions Department is responsible for a good deal more money than is involved under this legislation. Honorable senators need not fear that the object of this bill is to make  people fit for fighting purposes. Its object is to give health and happiness to every man, woman and child in Australia. That can be done only if their physical training is guided along the right lines. 
That remark is unworthy of the honorable senator. It is hardly fair to suggest that the citizens controlling various health organizations throughout the country are actuated only by a desire to increase their social status. I do not think that the Leader of the Opposition would be prepared to brand the majority of such people as ambitious citizens who are using the frailties of mankind for self glorification. I do not wish the impression to be created that this legislation deals only with the actual physical side of education. There are many other aspects directly related to physical training. The prevalence of malnutrition has been stressed by several speakers, but, malnutrition results not only from scarcity of food but in  70  per cent, of cases from a faulty selection of foods. That can be corrected only by education. It will be part of the functions of the physical training instructors, to guide the people in the choice of foods. 
I thank honorable senators generally for the sympathetic consideration which they have given to the measure, and I trust that it will receive a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause  3  (Commonwealth Council for National Fitness). 
"Will the proposed council, the personnel of which is limited to nine, be appointed by the Government, and will its composition he such that all .States will be represented? "Will the advice of State governments be sought and will members of the council act in an honorary capacity? No doubt all of them arc in permanent employment in other spheres of activity. 
 Seven members of the council have already been appointed, and the full number of members must not exceed . nine. The only remuneration that they will receive is £2 2s. a day for each meeting attended. The method by which the council is to be elected may be changed at any time, but at present there is to be one representative from each State and a Commonwealth representative will act as chairman. 
Sub-clause  3  of clause  3  provides that the council may make inquiries into the causes of physical unfitness in the community, and may for that purpose cooperate with the National Health and Medical Research Council. Does the Government intend that that council shall use its discretion as to whether inquiries shall be made into the causes of physical unfitness? 
Should not the clause be made mandatory? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  4  agreed to. 
Clause  5  (Application of fund). 
Does this clause give to the Minister power to apply money standing to the credit of the fund to the promotion of physical education in all schools? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses  6  and  7  agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
A series of proposals will, I understand, be submitted to the Senate for the appointment of parliamentary committees, and it is not necessary for me to speak at length regarding them. We all know that the appointment of these committees has been the subject of previous negotiations, and that the representation on them of the Government and of the Opposition has already been decided. A point on which I bad some doubt has been satisfactorily cleared up in the House of Representatives. Slight doubt arose as to the position of  chairman  of each of these committees, and the Government agreed in the House of Representatives that the  chairman  of each committee should have a casting vote, not on matters of policy but only on matters of procedure. My remarks on this message apply to each of the others that will be considered. I suggest that, as far as possible, secretaries or other necessary assistants, such as typists, whom the committees may require in connexion with their work, should be selected from persons already employed in the parliamentary service. It would not be fair if those who have already qualified for service here should be displaced by persons from outside the service, unless there is a. shortage of qualified persons. In all other ways the Opposition is in complete agreement with the proposal contained in the message. It hopes that the work of the various committees will prove valuable, and will be put in hand promptly, so that the war effort may be improved. 
I have already recommended to the Treasurer (Mr.Fadden) that members of the staff who are qualified to do this work be considered by the chairmen of the various committees when appointments are being made. That matter will be the subject of negotiations between the several chairmen of the committees and the. Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  or officers of his department. . I hope that, wherever possible, chairmen of committees will avail themselves of the services of qualified men who are available in the departments. 
I do not think that that is the position, but I shall look into the matter. The recommendation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  will be brought before the appropriate authorities. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Of all the committees to be appointed, this one is the least likely to meet with success. Existing economic and social conditions are due entirely to the monetary system which controls them. It is impossible to improve the social conditions of the people under the system which is primary responsible for their existence. I hope that the committee will take into consideration the causes of the existing insecurity and will endeavour to find a remedy. Had I been appointed to the committee, I believe that I could have indicated the causes of the present unsatisfactory state of affairs. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I notice that the  chairman  has been selected by the Government. I think that you will agree,  Mr. President,  that better results would be obtained if lots were drawn for the selection of  chairman. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.  - I oppose the motion for the appointment of a joint committee on rural industries. However, when practically every member of this Senate and of the House of Representatives, apart from the members of the Ministry, is being appointed to one of the numerous committees that the Government is setting up, it would be useless for me to vote against it. In their leisure hours school children are usually to be found either at the wood heap or at the lolly box, and it seems to me that that practice is also being adopted by members of this Parliament. When the Government cannot woo the Opposition into submission by any other means it resorts to the appointment of a committee which is nothing more or less than the lolly box under a different guise.I register my protest against the proposed appointment of this committee. 
.- I shall support the motion because it gives practical effect to a proposal that f. have so often advanced in this chamber. Time and again I have complained that many members of all parties in both Houses of the Parliament are given little or no opportunity to assist the Government. When a dispute arises in an industry which affects every section of the community Ministers have not sufficient time to attend to all the details that must be given consideration. In these circumstances it would he far better if the matter were referred to a committee composed of members of both Houses for inquiry and report. When the people complain that an industry, whether primary or secondary, is not functioning in the best interests of the the country, a committee should be appointed to investigate the allegation. It would be far better for a committee of members of Parliament to inquire into it than to have the investigation conducted  by  some official who obtained his appointment merely because he wore the old school tie. I am rather surprised at the attitude taken by  Senator James  McLachlan in regard to the appointment of joint committees. I speak for all honorablesenators on this side of the chamber when I say that, as members of these committees, we will do our job to the best of our ability, and that we shall base our decisions on the evidence we have heard, regardless of whether they are popular or unpopular, or whether they favour or oppose Government policy. I assure the honorable senator that we shall not be tempted into a spirit of acquiescence by what he has referred to as the. " lolly box ". I am sorry that the honorable senator is so deluded in his advanced years as to suggest that any member of this chamber would do otherwise. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.5 to10.30 p.m. 

Will the Leader of the Senate state whether questions which appear on the notice-paper and which are not answered before the Senate rises will, with their answers, be incorporated in  Hansard  and copies of  Hansard  be posted to the honorable senators concerned? 
I do not think that such questions and answers can be incorporated in  Hansard.  I shall make  arrangements for copies to be posted to the honorable senators concerned. 
I am informed that that cannot be done. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army whether female typists attached to the different sections of the Departments of the Army and Air are supplied with special dress, or whether special grants have been made to them for the purchase of a distinctive kind of dress ? 
I know of no special uniform being issued to typists. Some of the girls in the Royal Australian Air Force girls' organizations may be doing certain work associated with the activities of the Departments of the Army and Air. I know of no special uniform which has been provided for typists employed by these departments in the ordinary way. I shall inquire into the matter. 
I shall obtain the information and advise the honorable senator. 
In view of the happenings in the House of Representatives last night when the Government was defeated on at least three motions, has Cabinet decided when the Prime Minister will offer his resignation to the GovernorGeneral ? 
It is not the practice to state matters of policy in answer to questions. 
Did the Minister for Information notice in the press two days ago the statement attributed to the Lord Provost of Edinburgh that Herr Hess went to England for the purpose  of  negotiating peace in the course of which the Lord Provost made certain charges? Will the Government make special representations to the British Government that it should ascertain the truth or otherwise of those statements? Will the Minister endeavour to obtain the fullest information in regard to this matter ? 
No information has come to hand regarding the statements attributed to the Lord Provost of Edinburgh other than that which has already been published in the press. The honorable senator must realize that it would be quite impossible for this Government to send cablegrams to the British Government to ascertain the accuracy or otherwise of statements made by persons in Scotland or elsewhere. The Government has endeavoured to ascertain from the British Government whether there were any special reasons for the visit of Herr Hess to England, but no additional information has yet been received. 
In view of the statements made by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan and myself with regard to propaganda, will the Government consider the advisability of affording facilities for capable members of this Parliament to speak to the people over the national broadcasting stations and to give to them reliable information in regard to the way in which Germany is treating people in concentration camps, so that they may bring' forcibly to the notice of the people the inhumanity of the German authorities, and the danger to us if Germany ever got control of this country ? 
I assure the honorable senator that the Department of Information will gladly avail itself of the services of any member of either House of Parliament in its propaganda campaign. If the honorable senator and others would care at any time to avail themselves of the various channels through which we are able to make information available to the public, the Government would welcome their cooperation. A copy of the speeches to be broadcast would of course have to be submitted for the approval of the broadcasting authorities in exactly the same way as are all other speeches broadcast. 
Yesterday  Senator Aylett  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What are the restrictions against married men joining the Australian Imperial Force? 2.Is ita fact that a married man with three children under sixteen years is not acceptable in the Australian Imperial Force? 
The Minister for the Army has furnished the following replies: - 
The instructions are that married men with large families are not to be enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. The question of determining the number of children which constitutes a " large family " is left to the discretion of the General Officer Commanding of the Command concerned. 
This is a matter for the General Officer Commanding of each Command to determine, having regard to all factors affecting the recruiting situation in his Command from time to time. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Has the purchase of bauxite been financed by the Commonwealth Government? 
If so, what company or organization sold the bauxite to the Government or its agents? 
Has any contract or undertaking been entered into for the importation of bauxite in excess of 25.000 tons? 
What use will this bauxite be put to? 
Is it reserved for the use of any particular company or organization in Australia? 
On whose advice did the Government enter into this contract? 
Is the Minister now aware of the existence of suitable bauxite in Australia? If so, will he take steps to see that no more bauxite is imported? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Thebauxite was purchased by the Commonwealth. 
This material was obtained from the Netherlands. East Indies through the Australian Aluminium Company. 
No. 
It will be held as security stocks to be drawn upon when necessary for the production of aluminium, until such time as local deposits have been fully investigated and developed. 
No. The 25,000 tons are Commonwealth property. 
On the advice of our technical officers, which was accepted by the Advisory War Council on the 20th February, 1941. 
Detailed investigations are at present being made into the local resources of bauxite and the practicability of producing the requisite annual supplies of aluminium from local deposits. 
Yesterday,  Senator Collings  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister any information to give to Parliament as a result of his promised investigation into charges that; big assurance companies are cancelling policies as soon as the policy-holders enlist in the fighting forces? 
The Minister for the Army has furnished the following reply: - 
Inquiries in relation to various forms of assurance policies held by men serving in the Australian Imperial Force and Australian Military Force are proceeding with a view to ascertaining whether any action is necessary to protect their interests. The inquiries made so far disclose that there is no ground for complaint in relation to life policies held by members of the forces taken out before the outbreak of war. 
The honorable senator may be assured that all aspects of this question will be covered by the investigations now being made, and that the interests of members of the forces will be protected. 
Yesterday,  Senator Lamp  asked the Minister representing the  Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What are the rates of pay and allowances provided for the fighting services of New Zealand.. South Africa and  Canada? 
The information is being obtained, and  a  reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as early as possible.   Sitting suspended from 12.18 to 1 a.m. 
The Opposition has been prepared to assist to pass legislation which the Government believed was important and somewhat urgent, but after waiting some hours for the Supplementary Estimates we have met now only to adjourn. The Government appears to have become somewhat panicky. Does not the Government know its own business?  A panic-stricken government should not remain in office, but should resign. 
That may be, but I am confident that there would have been no holding up of its legislation. It would appear now that, because of the Government's uncertainty regarding its majority in the other chamber, the passing of the Supplementary Estimates is not so important as it was said to be a few hours ago. The Government should make way for another government which will conduct the business of the country fearlessly. The Labour party has cooperated with the Government in passing legislation associated with the nation's war effort. Although the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  did not introduce the Supplementary Estimates, he made a long controversial statement which could have led to a debate extending over two days, but he was not prepared to allow the House to discuss his propaganda statement. I trust that the business of the Government will be carried out in a more orderly way in the future. 
I suggest,  Mr. President,  that when you call the Senate together, arrangements be made for it to meet on a Wednesday, if possible. Under the present railway time-table, honorable senators from Western Australia can be  in  their places here four days after leaving  Perth if the Senate meets on a Wednesday; but should it meet on a Tuesday, as has happened on occasions in the past, six days must elapse from the time of leaving Perth until the Senate meets. Western Australian senators living in country districts may have to spend as long as eight .days between the time of leaving home and the meeting of the Senate. When the Senate adjourns on a Friday, senators wishing to travel to Western Australia have to spend one and a half days in Melbourne, or at some other point on the journey, making the total travelling time five days to Perth, or seven days in your own case,  Mr. President.  When the Parliament met for only one or two periods a year, Western Australian members did not mind spending a little extra time in the capital cities, but now that it meets at four or five different periods during the year, the time occupied in travelling is more than can be spared. I hope, therefore, that arrangements will be made for the Senate to be called together on a Wednesday. 
 in reply  - The matters raised by honorable senators will be taken into consideration. I appreciate the difficulties experienced by honorable senators from Western Australia, and shall bear in mind the representations of  Senator Johnston. 
I take this opportunity to inform  Senator Johnston  that I did not have an opportunity earlier to reply to the point raised by him last night in connexion with an extra telephone wire between Perth and Port Augusta. I read the report in  Hansard  proofs this morning. I shall bring his representations to the notice of the Postmaster-General. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral a commission to administer to honorable senators the oath or affirmation of allegiance. 
Commission laid on the table and read by the  Clerk. 
I have received through the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  a copy of a letter from  Mrs. Anne  Chamberlain thanking the Senate for the motion of sympathy and con dolence passed by it on the occasion of the death of her husband, the Right Honorable Neville Chamberlain. 
I regret to inform the Senate of the death in Melbourne on the 27th July of the Honorable the Reverend James Black Ronald. The late  Mr. Ronald  was a member of the first Commonwealth Parliament. He was elected to the House of Representatives for the Division of Southern Melbourne at the general elections in 1901 and 1903, and represented that division until 1906. It is proper, I think, that we place on record a tribute to the memory of one who was a member of the first Commonwealth Parliament. On behalf of the Senate I extend to his family our deepest sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses  its  deep  regret  at the death of the Honorable the Reverend James Black Ronald, a former member of the House of Representatives for the Division  of  Southern Melbourne, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
 I had not the privilege of acquaintance with the deceased gentleman, but I am familiar with the record of his work. Very few of those  who  were members  of  the  first  Commonwealth Parliament now remain with us. On, behalf of the Opposition,  I join with the  Leader  of  the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  in the expression of sympathy with the relatives of the deceased. 
The Country party desires to be associated with this expression of regret at the passing of a member of the first Commonwealth Parliament, and extends its sympathy to the relatives of the deceased. The winning of a seat in the first Commonwealth Parliament was a greater achievement than that of being elected to this Parliament in later years, because, in the earliest days of federation, there were no party labels, and before a candidate could be electedhe required the support of a vast number ofthe electors in his constituency. That accomplishment stood to the credit of the late  Mr. Ronald.  I was not associated with him in political life, and had met him only on several occasions. He is probably the only clergyman who has ever won a seat in either branch of the Commonwealth legislature.Our sympathy goes out to the relatives of the deceased. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
It is with regret that I announce the death of another former member of the first Commonwealth Parliament, the late Honorable JamesGeorge Drake, who died in Queensland on the 1st August. He was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Queensland for Enoggera in 1888, which seat he held until 1899, when he was appointed Postmaster-General and Secretary for Public Instruction.  In  1901, he was elected to the Senate as a representative for Queensland, and  in  that year be was a member of the Select Committee on Steamship Communication between Australia and Tasmania. He was Postmaster-General in the first Commonwealth Ministry, and held that office until August, 1903. He was Minister for Defence in August and September, 1903, and was Attorney-General from September, 1903, to April, 1904. He was also Vice-President of the Executive Council from August, 1904, to July, 1905. He retired from Commonwealth politics on the expiration of the second Parliament in 1906. The late  Mr. Drake  was a member, not only of the First Commonwealth Parliament, but also  of the  first Commonwealth Government. On behalf of the Senate I extend  to the  members of his family our deepest sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of the Honorable James George Drake, former  Senator and  Commonwealth Minister, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
 I had the great privilege of knowing the late Honorable J. G. Drake during the whole  of  his public life and right up till the time of his death. Although he was not associated with the party to which I belong he was always truly democratic in  his  political outlook and activities, which was something rare in the days of which I speak  -  I refer to the 'eighties. As  the  Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  has said, the deceased gentleman was not only a member of the first Commonwealth Parliament, he was also PostmasterGeneral of the first Commonwealth Ministry. At the time of his death on the 1st of this month he was the only surviving member of that Ministry. Although 91 years of age he was practising his profession at the bar when  his  last illness overtook him. He was  the  oldest practitioner in Queensland, and  I  believe in the Commonwealth also. Some of us can remember his activities; they were always associated with movements for the benefit of the people. I remember well that he published a newspaper -  TheBoomerang  - which in those days was considered to be fairly extreme, although to-day itwouldbe regarded as quite respectable. It was Australian in its outlook, and in those days provided one  of  the very few outlets for the then comparatively new champions of Australia and of things Australian. It is, therefore, with feeling of great regret that I refer to his passing, although, because of his advanced age, it was not unexpected. I regard as a privilege this opportunity  to  refer to hig life, andI join with the Leader of the Senate in expressing sincere sympathy with  those  of his family who are left behind. As I have said on many previous occasions, we have  an  ever-increasing obligation to pay respect to the memory of the pioneers of Australia, who  in  this Parliament, and elsewhere, have done  so  much  to  develop this great country. 
I had not the privilege  of  personal acquaintance with the late Honorable J.G. Drake, but I have had the opportunity to study his career and to become acquainted with the service that  he  rendered to his country during his lifetime. I associate the Country party with the expressions of deepest sympathy with the family and relatives of the deceased gentleman. 
Question resolved  in  the affirmative, honorable senators standing  in  their places. 
I regret to announce to the Senate the death of  ex-Senator  John Dunlop Millen, at Launceston, Tasmania,  on  the 1st August, The late  Mr. Millen  was elected to the Senate for the State of Tasmania at the general elections  in  1919, and again  in  1925 and 1931, retaining his place as a senator till the 30th June, 1938. He was a member  of  the Joint Committee  on  Public Accounts from July, 1920, to September, 1925, and was a member of the Wireless Agreement Committee  of  1921-22. He was chairman of the Royal Commission  on  National Insurance from 1923 to 1927. 

 His death will, I am sure, be greatly regretted by many honorable senators who knew him well. On behalf of the Senate I extend  to  his widow and family our deepest sympathy, and move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of former  Senator John  Dunlop 
Millen, places on record its appreciation of  Ms long  and meritorious public service, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
ExSenator J. D. Millen was well known to most of us who are now sitting in this chamber. All honorable senators, irrespective of party, will agree that the motion which has been submitted by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  is fitting, and also that during the whole of the term as a senator the late  Mr. Millen  was a gentleman. Although he was keen in debate, I never knew him to give expression to any feelings of bitterness ; what he had to say was said with a quiet reserve and a gentility of manner which disarmed even his keenest opponents. We are all sorry that the inevitable has come to him, and we all agree with that portion of the motion which expresses sympathy with those whom he has left behind. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON (Western Australia). - The members of the Country party in this chamber desire to be associated with the motion. The late exSenator Millen was well known to most of us - I sat with him in this chamber for nine years - and I am confident that all honorable senators, irrespective of party, found him a good friend and a loyal colleague. He was a man of great ability, knowledge and culture. I should have liked him to speak more frequently because of hiswide knowledge of a number of subjects. Whenever he spoke he found an interested audience both in this Parliament and throughout Australia. He was a valiant fighter for Tasmania, a man with large ideas, and one who had the welfare of the Australian people at heart. The members of the Country party in this chamber join in the expression of sympathy to his widow and family in their irreparable loss. 
It is with regret that I rise to support this motion. It was my great pleasure and privilege to be associated with the deceased gentleman for many years and to share with him the representation of Tasmania in this chamber. In his own State, as elsewhere in Australia, our former colleague waa held in the highest esteem. Every honorable senator who knew the deceased gentleman will look back with pleasure on his association with him. Ex-Senator Millen was a man of outstanding ability, who made many valuable contributions to the debates in this chamber. He was in failing health for 
Borne  time, and although in the later years in which he represented Tasmania in this chamber, he found his parliamentary duties onerous, he continued to occupy his accustomed place. He was always actively interested in the work of the Senate and was a most worthy representative of the people, not only of Tasmania, but also of the Commonwealth. I join with other honorable senators in expressing, on behalf of the Tasmanian people, appreciation of the sterling worth of the late ex-senator, and in extending sincere sympathy to his widow and family. 
I associate myself with the remarks made by other honorable senators. I had the pleasure of being associated with the late ex-Senator J. D. Millen in representing the electors of Tasmania in this Senate, and I, too, can testify to his sterling worth. The late ex-senator had a long and honorable public and private career to his credit, and his memory will  he  revered by a large circle  of  political and private friends. I join with other honorable senators in offering my sympathy to his widow and family in their great sorrow. 
Since 1908 I have been intimately acquainted with the late ex-Senator J. D. Millen, his widow and his three sons. He was a very deep student, a thinker, and a man of calm courage because, although he was in failing health for many years, he bore his illness with great courage and patience. Those of us who were intimately associated with him deeply regret his passing and join with other honorable senators in tendering to his widow and sons our deepest sympathy in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Air consider the possibility of the Australianbuilt Beaufort bomber, which put up an excellent performance recently, being taken on a flight to Tasmania ? 
I shall consider the matter very favorably, and I hope that I shall be able to arrange for the bomber to be taken to that State within the next week or so. If the matter can be arranged, I shall let the honorable senator know the date on which the bomber will arrive. 
It is with great regret that I announce to the Senate the death in England yesterday of Viscount Stonehaven, who was Governor-General of Australia from 1925 to 1930. Viscount Stonehaven before becoming Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, had had a. lengthy diplomatic and political career in Great Britain. As an officer of the diplomatic service he had been in Vienna, Cairo, Abyssinia, Paris and Buenos Aires. In the Great War of 1914-18 he served as an intelligence officer, and was awarded the Distinguished Service Order. During his parliamentary service he was Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for the Home Office from 1919 to 1922, and from 1922 to 1924 he held office in the United Kingdom Government as Minister for Transport and First Commissioner of Works. During his term of office as Governor-General in Australia, the Commonwealth Parliament was opened at Canberra by HisRoyal Highness the Duke of York, our present King. Viscount Stonehaven worthily upheld the dignity of the high office of Governor-General.  His  parliamentary and ministerial experience contributed materially to his successful occupancy of the office, and in all his public work he was ably supported by Viscountess Stonehaven. Australians retain happy memories of Viscount Stonehaven's term of office, and are grateful for the continued interest which he had since maintained in Australian affairs. I invite honorable senators to join in expressing sincere sympathy with Viscountess Stonehaven and family in their bereavement. I move - 
That the Senate records its profound regret at the death of the Right Honorable Viscount Stonehaven. P.C., G.C.M.G. a former GovernorGeneral of the Commonwealth of Australia, and expresses its deep sympathy with Viscountess Stonehaven and family in their bereavement. 
The Opposition wishes to he associated with the remarks of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  regarding the passing of theRight Honorable Viscount Stonehaven, who was the representative of the British Government in the Commonwealth from 1925 to 1930. Although I had very little acquaintance with the work of the deceased gentleman, I met him in Canberra on the occasion of the opening of the Commonwealth Parliament here in May, 1927. I was not then a member of this Senate, but was a delegate to a conference held in Canberra at that time. We appreciate the valuable work of the late Viscount Stonehaven in the Commonwealth, and we are aware ofhis distinguished career in other parts of the world on behalf of the country he so ably represented. We regret the passing of one more of the servants of the Empire, and we join in the expression of sympathy to Viscountess Stonehaven and family, in which I am sure every honorable senator concurs. 
-The Country Party desires to be associated with this motion of condolence. Viscount Stonehaven was Governor-General of Australia when I was a member of the Commonwealth Government, and I met him on many occasions during that period. He had a distinguished career, and we regret the death of a man who was the chosen representative of the King in Australia. We extend our sincere sympathy to Viscountess Stonehaven and family in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Will the Leader of the Senate state whether the Government has come to any decision with regard to the erection of a second telephone line between Port Augusta and Perth? Is the Government aware that the present single line is overloaded and that telephonic communication between Western Australia and the other States can be carried on at present only with difficulty? 
I took the matter up with the Defence Department following my visit to Western. Australia as 
Postmaster-General, and I understand that, in response to requests by  Senator E.  B. Johnston and other Western Australian members, it has received favorable consideration. I do not know where this matter stands in the order of priority, but I shall ascertain the position. If the honorable senator will place a question on the notice-paper, I shall see that a considered reply is furnished by the PostmasterGeneral. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce been drawn to a press paragraph that there is an acute shortage of apples in Australia, that the Apple and Pear Board had expressed doubt as to whether an order received from the East could be fulfilled, and that in consequence the people concerned were contemplating importing apples from Canada? In view of the heavy apple crop in Australia this year, and the loss of the export trade, will the Minister institute a searching inquiry as to whether an acute shortage exists, and later make a statement on the subject to the Senate ? 
I shall call the attention of the Minister for Commerce to the remarks of the honorable senator. 
Can the Minister for Repatriation say what is the latest "furphy" in regard to the  Official History of Australia in the War of 1914- 1918,  Volume No. 6? 
Having breathed the same atmosphere as the honorable senator for some time, I understand his question. I am unable to give any definite information as to when Volume No. 6 of the  Official History of Australia in the War of 1914-1918  will appear. 
ON asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
With reference to the Minister's reply to a question by  Senator Clothier  on the 1st July (Hansard, page 569) in which are set out (i) fees, (ii) expenses and (iii) fares paid on account of or to the Western Australian representatives on the Australian Wheat Board, will the Minister supply simi lar detailed information regarding the payments to each of the other members of the board for the same period? 

 Senator McBRIDE. - The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The amounts paid to members of the Australian Wheat Board, other titan Western Australian representatives, are as follows: - 
asked the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
What amount, if any, does the Department of Information pay the press for the publication of pictures supplied by the department? 
What amount, if any, is paid to Australian commercial B class broadcasting stations by the Department of Information for broadcasting matter supplied by the department? 

 Senator McLEAY. - The press does not make any charge on the Department of Information for the publication of its photographs. No charge is made by the commercial (B class) broadcasting stations for broadcasting material supplied by the Department of Information. 
ON asked the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
In view of the decision of the Government to increase the size and scope of the new small arms munitions factory in Tasmania, will the new munitions factory to be established at Welshpool, Western Australia, be similarly enlarged? 

 Senator McBRIDE. - Yes. The plans now provide for a factory as large again as that originally contemplated, and further extensions are being considered. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply the names of the gentlemen whose services are being used by the Government but whose remuneration is not entirely paid by the Government? 

 Senator McLEAY. - The information is being obtained and will be supplied to the honorable senator at as early a date as possible. 
 What about the control of the coal-mining industry and of shipping? 
I do not desire to be disrespectful to the Prime Minister, nor do I underestimate his qualities. I am aware that nobody can make more delightful afterdinner speeches than he, and I know of no gentleman who can make such rosecoloured promises to Australia and yet  fail so dismally to give effect to any one of them. The only problem we are asked to solve by this latest statement of the right honorable gentleman, is that of how best to get rid of the Prime Minister because his own political friends have become tired of him, both inside Parliament and outside it. Certain interests in this country have made up their minds that the Prime Minister must go to London. The reason advanced in the syndicated press is that the Prime Minister's presence in London is essential, but, public opinion in Australia, having failed to respond to this suggestion, because of the known capacity of the Labour party in both branches of this Parliament and elsewhere, the Government now adopts this new method of getting over its political difficulties. I maintain that no member of the present Government has reason to be proud of the part it is playing in party politics to-day. Yesterday, in the House of Representatives, one heard certain statements made. No critics on the Labour side could have said more caustic or unkind things about their leader than were said about the Prime Minister by members of parties supporting the Government. 
A few days ago a crisis had arisen with regard to the position in the Pacific as it affects Australia. In the course of his statement yesterday, the Prime Minister said - 
In the Far East, the military occupation of French Indo-China by Japan has produced acute international complications. The move was regarded, both by the British Empire and the United States of America, as an unjustified act of aggression in a direction which was plainly of concern to both British and American vital interests. Counter-measures of an economic kind were therefore adopted, with substantial effects upon Japanese oversea trade. Subsequently, Japan has been in discussion with Thailand, the importance of which will be at once clear to all honorable members who glance at the map. 
We have glanced at the map, and I am sure that honorable senators opposite have done so. We realize that the position is serious, and that the safety of Australia is definitely threatened by the moves being made southward by a certain country. Although this dangerous position is emphasized, and although it is so serious that it is felt that a definite move must be made to transfer the Prime Minister to London, what do I find? The Prime Minister himself is not impressed with the seriousness of the situation. If I believed that it was imperative in the interests of Australia that 1 should go to London, I should certainly go there, and I should make that a political issue. But what does the Prime Minister do? In the ministerial statement read to the Senate to-day the following passage occurred : - 
The colleagues of the Prime Minister in the Cabinet have, as a result of recent discussions, asked him to pay another visit to London. Having regard to the balance of parties in Parliament, he has indicated that it would not be practicable for him to go abroad at present, except with the approval of all parties. 
Apparently he does not believe that the situation is serious, and therefore he wants a " get-out ", because he had a very shrewd idea that all parties would not agree to his going to London. A strong leader would have said : " So convinced am I that my presence in London is necessary for adequate representation in Great Britain of the needs of this country and of its overseas forces in the different theatres of the war, that I intend to go." But having counted heads, the Prime Minister said : " I am not going unless all parties agree ". He may as well have said : " I know that all parties would not agree, and therefore I am not going ". 
I have always been proud of the political movement to which I belong, and I was never more proud of the Opposition in this Parliament than I was at a caucus meeting this morning, when the following decision was arrived at: - 
The Labour party declares - 
That, having regard to the gravity of the war as it affects the Commonwealth, it is essential for Australia to have its Prime Minister here to direct the administration in the organization of a total war effort, and, therefore, we are opposed to the present proposal that the Prime Minister,  Mr. Menzies,  should proceed to London as Prime Minister. 
The next part of the declaration reads - 
That arrangements be made with tha British Government for representation for the Commonwealth Government in England, so as to ensure that its point of view in respect to war policy will be constantly before the British War Cabinet. 
That  declaration was agreed to by an overwhelming majority of the Parliamentary Labour party. It will go out  to  the people of Australia to-day, and,  in  my opinion, will be endorsed by them  as a  proper Australian decision regarding  an  Australian problem. 
.- Yes, and I shall supply the Minister with a copy of it for future reference. 
We declare  that  arrangements should be made with the British Government for representation of the Commonwealth Government in England, so as to ensure that its point of view  with  respect to war policy will be constantly before the British War Cabinet. 
.- I have only  a  limited time  in  which to make my speech, and the paragraph that I have read is couched  in  very simple language. 
Whatever kind  of  representation the Commonwealth Government likes to send, so long as it keeps its alleged leader here to see that Australia is protected against the possibilities which are said to be so serious. If. honorable senators opposite cannot understand such  a  simple declaration, the fault  is  not mine.  I  challenge the Government's sincerity when it demands anything of the British Government. There is no proof,  as  far as the Opposition's contact with this Government is concerned, that  it  has the capacity to do anything except say " ditto " to Downingstreet's "yes". This is not merely the statement  of a  biased political leader of an opposing party. In 1931 the Statute  of  Westminster was deliberately passed, not by Australia, but by the British Parliament, as head of the British Commonwealth of Nations, in order to give proper status to the dominions; but the present Commonwealth Government is so satisfied to be merely the tail that the dog wags that it has never even sought to have that statute ratified, which would have given full dominionstatus to Australia. 
The honorable senator's perspicacity is marvellous ! The Government does not feel sufficiently concerned about Australia to accept the offer that has been made to it. Like any other law, the Statute of Westminster does not become operative in Australia until it has been adopted and proclaimed. What wouldthat statute confer? Among other things, that statute provided for - 
Validity of laws made by Parliament of a Dominion. 
Power of Parliament of Dominion to legislate extra-territorially. 
Parliament of United Kingdom not to legislate for Dominion except by consent. 
Powers of Dominion Parliaments in relation to merchant shipping. 
Powers of Dominion Parliaments in relation to Courts of Admiralty. 
The Government did not take the trouble to do anything about shipbuilding until a week or two ago. 
I am prepared to amend that statement, and to say that the Government did not do anything about shipbuilding until a month or two ago. 
It is true that a Government of which the present Government is the direct lineal descendant did take some action in regard to shipping. It sabotaged the Australian shipping industry, as honorable senators opposite know. 

 Senator Spicer said that the present situation would not be affected by the adoption of the Statute of Westminster. Had that statute been adopted and proclaimed, the Government would have indicated that it was prepared to accept the measure of self-government which the Parliament of Great Britain offered to Australia. Instead, however, the Government of the day was so churlish that it did not even say " thank you ". In effect, the " Mother of Parliaments " said to its sons in different parts of the world : " Boys, you are now grown up. Youare  21 years of age, and here is the key of the front door." The reply to that offer was as good as to say, "Don't bother about us. We don't care whether we get in by the front door, or the back door, or whether we never see the old home again." The Home Government was, in effect, told that Australia did not want full dominion status. Now the Prime Minister tells us that the Government of Great Britain will not accept any person other than the Prime Minister, even though this Parliament decided to send him to the Old Country to put Australia's case. 
He said that the Government of Great Britain would not permit any person other than the Prime Minister to represent Australia in the deliberations of the War Cabinet. Honorable senators opposite know that that is the only inference which can be drawn from the Prime Minister's statement. I believe that the Government of the United Kingdom will accept, from a selfgoverning dominion, any Minister whom the government of that dominion selects to go to England to put its view. I do not want to see the Prime Minister of Australia go to London. I have several reasons for making that statement, not one of which is personal. I do not want him to go to London because the Prime Minister, in addition to being Prime Minister, is Minister for Defence Coordination. In that capacity, his right place in a time of national emergency is in Australia. He cannot do his duty as Prime Minister and Minister for Defence Co-ordination unless he remains in Australia. I do not believe that the Government of the Old Country would refuse to accept any representative of Australia other than the person holding the position of Prime Minister. Another reason why I do not wish the Prime Minister to go to London is that I do not think that he is sufficiently effective to represent Australia there. If honorable senators opposite want evidence of the Prime Minister's ineffectiveness, I can supply it, but I do not wish to go into too much detail in this matter. I will say, however, that I do not know of any man who has ever aspired to the Prime Ministership of this country who has been so unable to make a decision and stick to it, in spite of everything that may happen, as the present Prime Minister. Ministers opposite, together with their colleagues in another place, must know a good deal about this indecisiveness of the Prime Minister. Private members of Parliament have this matter brought before them whenever they reach their home towns or come in contact with their constituents in the federal members' rooms in their several States. In every major matter, the Government is muddling and bungling the war effort. In saying that, I do not wish to detract from the value of some of the things which have been accomplished during the last twenty months. 
.- Whilst the Government has done some very fine things in connexion with this country's war effort, it started so late that it is still in a hopeless muddle. .It is only now adopting planks from the platform of the Australian Labour party which John Curtin, the Leader of the Australian Labour party, announced in his policy speech in 1937. Only now is the Government beginning to realize that the criticism by the Labour party in this chamber of the cost-plus profit basis of defence contracts was right. So sure is the Government now that the Labour party was right when it opposed that system, that the Minister this morning was obliged to apologize when he said that the Government had decided to abandon the system. 
I know that the Government is not abandoning it entirely. It does not dare to make the damaging admission that the Labour party was right in this matter. And so the Government says : " The position in connexion with cost-plus profit contracts is difficult and complicated. We are not abandoning it, because we do not know of any other system by which small contractors will get a share of Government work. We have, however, discovered that the system is not what we thought it was ". 
The Government is now trying to shuffle out of the position into which it has muddled. I do not envy Ministers at the present time.I realize the difficulties confronting them; but can any honorable senator point to one major administrative action of the Government which has been successful? I do not now refer to Australia's manufacturing achievements, because those achievements have been successful as the result of the efforts made by the men in dungarees. I refer to the administrative acts of the Government. The Government has shown clearly that it has not the administrative capacity to carry out a total war effort. I mention its failure in connexion with liquid fuel control as an instance. 
I suggest that the honorable senator should not throw out a challenge of that sort. It reminds me of the small boy who whistled when he passed a cemetery. He did not know at what time the ghosts would walk and so he whistled to keep up his courage. The honorable senator should not start to whistle too soon. In all probability, he will not have long to whistle. 
I cannot say that I look forward with pleasant anticipation to the task which would confront a Labour government; but if the Labour party could not provide a better total all-in effort for Australia than the present Government has provided, then it should keep out of office for the rest of its political life. 
There is no subtlety about the proposal at all. 
The Prime Minister refused to allow members of the Country party to participate in the discussion. He said : " I shall consult with the United Australia party members of the Government, but not with any one else ". Honorable senators opposite should not imagine that I hold any brief for those of their colleagues who have said rude things to the Prime Minister. I do not agree with them. Indeed, I trust them so little that I think I can understand their motives; and I do not think that their motives are particularly creditable. The fact remains, however, that the Prime Minister was so uncertain of his position that he refused to admit to the  meeting any personswho had not been hand-picked. 
I repeat that the present Government is a composite Administration consisting of members of the United Australia and United Country parties. The Prime Minister called a meeting, but he said to members of the United Country party: "You boys must keep out; only the good lads - members of the United Australia party - will be allowed in". 
.- Of course it was. But leadership of the United Austtralia party means also the Prime Ministership of Australia, so long as a composite government exists. I remind honorable senators opposite that I am not exactly an innocent abroad, and am not easily led up a garden path and left there. 
Indicate one inaccurate statement that I have made. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. J. Cunningham).  - Order! I ask the Leader of the Opposition to address the Chair. 
Honorable senators opposite will not find a Labour government sending its Prime Minister to London during war-time. 
.- I made no reference to the last war; I said that no Labour government in this country will send its Prime Minister to London during war-time. However, a Labour government would send an able Australian advocate to London to participate in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet. We have our plans completed for the transition from this side of the chamber to the government side should the occasion arise; we have that administrative capacity and a definite plan of action which are so seriously lacking in the present Government. As the result of the administrative shortcomings of the Government the people of Australia lack the necessary inspiration for an all-in war effort. They naturally say " Let some other government which is capable of inspiring us to a maximum war effort, a government which will not make unfair concessions to the wealthy and demand sacrifices only from the masses, take over the reins of office ". So long as the wealthy few are permitted to continue to get their rake-off and make huge profits, so long as the present Government continues to bolster up big business, just so long will the people refuse to pull together in an all-in war effort. We do not believe that the Prime Minister of this country should go to London; we believe that he should stay here and endeavour to inspire and encourage the people to the greatest possible war effort of which this country is capable. At the same time we believe that Australia should have in London, taking part in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet, a capable advocate familiar with Australian needs and desires as expressed through its Government. That is the reason why we came to the resolution agreed to this morning; that is the reason why I commend the statement I have made this afternoon to the serious consideration of the Government. I trust that the Government will see that the Prime Minister stays here and accepts his full responsibilities to the Australian people for the protection of this Commonwealth. 
The Labour party did not want to send Australian soldiers abroad. 
It is fair to say that the Opposition has co-operated with the Government only to the extent of passing the necessary measures to provide the money to finance the war. It has not accepted any responsibility for the raising of the necessary funds to  prosecute  the war. 
.- If I have been unfair to  Mr. Curtin  I am sorry, because I have the greatest . admiration for him  I feel sure that he would not make a speech, such as we have listened to this afternoon from the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber.  Mr. Curtin  13 too astute and has too great an understanding of the realities of the situation to make a speech such as we have listened to this afternoon from the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber. 
In ten minutes  Mr. Curtin  has done more towards helping the Government in its war effort than the whole of the deliberations of the War Council over many months have done. 
.- Is he Labour's spokesman? Every time I see a proposition of this kind being brought forward I realize that he is no longer the spokesman of his party.  Mr. Curtin  has been openly defied by other members of his party and of the Australian Advisory War Council. The honorable member for Barton  (Dr. Evatt),  the new idol of the Labour party, takes every opportunity presented to him to proclaim from the housetops and through the newspapers and broadcasting stations that he speaks for the Labour movement. He contradicts his leader and deprecates him as much as he can on every possible occasion. That is the sort of co-operation  that exists among the members of the Labour party. In contrast to what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber this afternoon let us consider the fine manly statement made by  Mr. Curtin  in connexion with this matter. After consultation with the Prime Minister, and after the facts of the international situation had been fully and faithfully placed before him,  Mr. Curtin  agreed that the presence of the Australian Prime 
Minister in London was urgently necessary. Immediately following that pronouncement other members of the Labour party began their efforts to displace him from the leadership of the party. We have only to remember the baying of the hounds when, during the last election, itseemed likely that  Mr. Curtin  would lose the Fremantle seat. One gentleman who had not had even five minutes parliamentary experience, jumped in immediately and in effect said, "I am the heaven-sent leader of the Labour party. I shall take on this job ". 
am). - The honorable senator must not accuse the Minister of making an untrue statement 
The correction of the honorable senator is accepted. Apparently  Senator Large  wishes to become the interjector-general of the Labour party. When he gains a little more parliamentary experience he will appreciate that there are certain rules of debate of which he has no knowledge at present. 
The Leader of the Opposition also suggested - and I assume that it is the considered opinion of his party - that Parliament should be in session constantly for hourly and daily consultation. Could anything 'be more foolish? Does the honorable senator imagine that the big job which this Government has to do can be carried out effectively by means of hourly and daily consultation with members of other parties? Does he assume that the gigantic task of making an effective war effort oan be done entirely in Canberra? Does he think that the Prime Minister and Ministers do not have to attend their offices and administer their departments? Does he imagine, for one moment, that owing to some form of super-organization, all governmental activities run smoothly? 
It is obvious that the Leader of the Opposition does make these assumptions when he claims that Ministers should be in daily and hourly consultation with Parliament. God help me if I have to be in daily and hourly consultation with honorable senators opposite. I am prepared to give the fullest consideration to representations made by any honorable senator, and I am prepared to accept cheerfully whatever sound advice is given; but to suggest that I should sit in daily and hourly consultation with honorable senators opposite, and listen to a constant flow of deprecatory remarks about my department and my administration, is something which I should not be prepared to countenance in any circumstances. Such a system would be absolutely hopeless and. the Leader of the Opposition knows it. 
The Leader of the Opposition prides himself on his choice of words and his clarity of expression. EEc claims to be able to put things so clearly that even " nit-wits " can understand them. 
.- Because of the alleged clarity of his expression and the eminence of his intellect, the honorable senator must accept some of the blame for any misunderstanding which may have arisen. Apparently his clarity of expression is not as good as he believes it to be and that, must be a terrible blow to him. 
That any one with a knowledge of business or administration could seriously suggest that Parliament should be in session constantly passes my understanding. I freely concede that honorable senators on either side of the chamber have a right to voice whatever criticism they consider to be justified, but surely a certain degree of moderation should be observed. Miraculous though it may sewn, I am afraid that the free flow of criticism would discontinue if Parliament were constantly in session. The Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister did not believe that his presence in London was 'necessary because he was not prepared to go without the consent of all parties. The honorable senator added that if Labour were in power and ite Prime Minister thought it necessary to go to London, he would go without consulting other political parties. That is an invitation which must be seriously considered by Cabinet and by the Prime Minister. In the face of such a clear expression by the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber uo doubt Cabinet will review the matter iD a new light. Whilst I cannot speak for the Prime Minister or for other members of the Cabinet, my own personal feeling is that the Leader of the Opposition is right. 
The Prime Minister wanted to make a truce before going to England. 
I am inclined to agree with the honorable senator. The Leader of the Opposition has suggested - no doubt, as a responsible declaration on behalf of his party - that the Government should do what it thinks is right, and I feel that that might be very good advice. As a matter of fact, that suggestion was the only bright jewel in the entire speech of the Leader of the Opposition. However, it is useless arguing in this way because the minds of honorable senators opposite have already been made up for them by their colleagues in the House of Representatives. Nothing I can say here will have the slightest effect, no matter how silvery voiced I may be or what clarity of expression I achieve. Now that Parliament is in session, honorable senators have a chance to say what they like, but so far the only gem in the utterances that have been made was the statement that the presence of the Prime Minister in 
Australia was absolutely necessary, and that  be  was the man to carry on while Australia was in danger. 
It has not been suggested that the right honorable gentleman  should  remain in London indefinitely. I  remind  honorable senators that during the  last  war the then Prime Minister, the present right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  visited England on two occasions. 
I am quite aware of what happened to  Mr. Hughes,  both in England and  when he returned to this country,  and  I know that the right honorable gentleman carried on as Prime Minister for the duration of the war. When  he  did go to England he remained away for a considerable time. I am raising  this  matter only because there seems to be considerable doubt in the minds of some people that the  deputy  Prime Minister would be able to carry on in this country with .full powers of government. I point out that during the absence of  the then Prime Minister during the  last  war, the deputy Prime Minister had full control of affairs in Australia and, to the best of my recollection, on one  occasion  he even dismissed a Minister who  had  been appointed by  Mr. Hughes.  On two other occasions action which  Mr. Hughes  wanted to take in London was vetoed by  Cabinet in Australia. Therefore, any idea that the Ministry in this country would not have full powers of government in the absence of the Prime  Minister  is altogether without foundation. In  view  of my relationship to the Prime Minister, I hesitate to speak of him, but I consider that I am quite capable of  gauging  dispassionately the capabilities of  any  man, and I say quite emphatically and  calmly  that the Prime Minister is the  biggest  man in Australia at the present time. I go further and say that he  is  one of the three biggest men in the Empire. This constant deprecation of the political leader of the Australian people  by  newspapers and other critics who are fouling their own nests to the detriment of the people in this country is something which I cannot understand. 
 What were the proportions of British and Australian casualties? 
But he did not stay there. When the Prime Minister returned from his visit to London he told us that in Canada he attended a conference  at  which it was proposed that an Imperial Conference be held, and that the Prime Minister of Canada  (Mr. MacKenzie King)  opposed' that proposal, The Prime Minister, on his return to Australia, indicated his desire to return to London as soon as possible. In the ensuing months, however, due, perhaps, to certain action taken by some of his followers, as well as to certain  press  propaganda, the Government's position was rendered unstable. Apparently fearing a political crisis, the Prime Minister, with the approval of Cabinet, decided to make a tour of Australia. In this connexion I point out to the Minister for Aircraft Production that, despite the heavy responsibilities resting  upon  the shoulders of the Prime Minister, which he went to great pains to emphasize, the right honorable gentleman was able to undertake that tour. The tour was actually commenced and carried through as far as Adelaide. The Prime Minister then suddenly announced that he was obliged to cancel the rest of the tour. In the Sydney newspapers we were told that the crisis in the Pacific was so serious that the Prime Minister had to cancel his tour and call Cabinet together. 
But nothing was known in London or New York that the position had further deteriorated. The British Government and  President  Roosevelt were perturbed about the announcement. The fact that action was contemplated by the Prime Minister in the shape of a political tour brought from his own supporters the announcement that there had been a meeting in Sydney, of which the honorable member for Martin  (Mr. McCall)  was informed, and that it had been decided to bring about .an industrial crisis on which an election could be fought. Those who speak about " the diabolical game of politics " are the first to take advantage of a political situation, even at a time of extreme national crisis. The honorable member for Martin " blew the gaff ", because the statement was published in the Melbourne and Sydney press that an industrial crisis was to be created in order to provide an election issue favorable to the United Australia party and the Country party. Whatever may be the shortcomings of the Prime Minister is beside the point. All I say is that, whoever the Prime Minister happens to be, he should remain in Australia. 
The Minister for Aircraft Production told us of the great work that had been done by the present Government. He said that it had increased employment, but any government could have done that in the present circumstances. Increased employment has been brought about chiefly as a result of war expenditure, and the Government cannot be complimented upon any great achievement in that regard. It has not succeeded in reducing the profits of wealthy companies which are showing dividends of 15 per cent. What has it done in regard to the profits of Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited? The people of this country insist that the Government should control profits, and wish to know when that will be done. I am in agreement with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  that the present Prime Minister is the most competent man on his side of the House, but I claim that he should not go to London as Prime Minister. If the Government desires to send a representative there, the responsibility for doing so rests entirely upon its shoulders. 
Did the member of the British Cabinet say that the Prime Minister should go to London? 
AN.- Honorable senators opposite who are playing the game of party politics in this matter would have it bruited abroad that there is some conspiracy by the Prime Minister's followers in the Cabinet to force him in some direct way, whereas we are assured by Ministers that their unanimous wish is that he should go to London and still remain Prime Minister. At a time like this, a whispering campaign or the suggestion that some person has an ulterior purpose is unworthy of us as the chosen representatives of the free people of Australia. It is our duty to take every step to keep them free. Surely, one step is that our first citizen, the Prime Minister of this country, whatever his name may be, should be at the heart of the Empire to voice the needs of Australia in this dark hour. I say to honorable senators that there are people listening to us to-day who would like to see divided counsel among us. The question is asked : " Why should  Mr. Menzies  go to England?" I have been in the heart of the Empire as a Minister. I was received with every courtesy and consideration; I was feted; everything possible was done for me. But one has to absorb the atmosphere of the Old Country just as one has to absorb the atmosphere  of Australia and of this Parliament. 
AN.- The Government of Britain is a composite Government consisting of representatives of the party to which the interjector belongs as well as of other parties. Its members come from families which have  given great service to the Empire and to democracy. Members of all political parties are united in the effort to defeat the most powerful force that has ever threatened to overwhelm the world. We must face the facts. We may have to ask for naval or military assistance, because we cannot protect ourselves without assistance. All parts of the Empire are in this fight together. It is an all-in war. The Labour party has pledged itself to an all-in effort, yet some of its members quibble because Cabinet has said that  Mr. Menzies  should go to London. If I had the power to do so, I should say:  "Mr. Menzies  will go to London and the people of Australia may judge whether he is right or wrong in doing so ". Although honorable senators opposite know how impotent Australia would be if left to fight alone, yet, when the Government suggests what it believes to be the most practical step to further the interests of Australia, we hear whisperings, party politics and bickering. Words are thrown across the chamber and questions asked as to what has been done, or has not been done. I wish to impress on honorable senators the futility of this sort of conduct. The present alinement of nations is of supreme importance to Australia, and every effort, both diplomatic and practical, should be made for our protection. We need the co-operation of others ; we need the best intelligence that can be applied to measures for our protection. The Leader of the Government for the time being is the most suitable man to send abroad. I hold no brief for  Mr. Menzies  as such, but I do hold a brief for him as leader of the Australian people, the Prime Minister of this country for the time being.  His  presence in London as Prime Minister of this dominion is an entirely different thing from his presence in London as  Mr. Menzies,  a member of the House of Representatives, however eminent he may bc in his profession or respected in politics. At such a time, we should not discuss such matters as the adoption of the Statute of Westminster. What does ii, matter whether that statute was, or was not, adopted? We are in the same position to-day as if it had been adopted. I point out that we cannot fight a war bv means of the syndicated press or of 

 Senator A.  J. Mclachlan.  the Statute of Westminster, because those things do not supply guns, ships, torpedoes, shells, bayonets,  or  the other things necessary for our defence. It  is  useless at this time  of  crisis to talk  about  such things . as the Statute of Westminster, however important they may  be  to us in theory. It is time for us to face stern realities. The situation in the waters to the north of Australia is  a  serious menace to this country, and,  in  the face of it, we should dismiss from our minds such things as the examination  of  the Statute of Westminster and vain discussion as to what the Government has done, or has not done. Let us send  to  the Old Country our first citizen,  in  the person of the Prime Minister, whoever he may be, so that he may further our interests and urge the proper steps to be taken for the safety and protection of the people of Australia. No one can so well present to the Government  of  Great Britain and our allies in other places the steps necessary for our protection as can the man who for the time being is the Prime Minister of this country. From the levity displayed at times during this debate one would think that some minor matter associated with party politics was under discussion. Surely this is not a time for the Leader of the Opposition to attempt to score at the expense of the Minister for Munitions. Rather should we concentrate on matters of major importance. At the moment there is a pause in international relations, but that pause may not last for long. It may be that potential enemies are pausing in order to ascertain whether there is division among us, or whether we are united in our determination to defend our heritage. I know that every man and woman in this country would defend its shores if they were attacked; but we should not, like the proverbial ostrich, bury our heads  in  the sand in the belief that thereby we shall escape danger. We must be practical and consider how best we can accomplish the things necessary for our defence. Let us close our ranks and put aside whatever differences still exist. I appreciate the assistance of the Opposition in voting money for the prosecution of the war. If, as has been hinted, the proposal to send  Mr. Menzies  to London is a party political manoeuvre, I say that it would be unworthy of any Prime Minister, particularly at such a time. The times are too critical to allow of petty bickerings. I am convinced, however, that this is no political manoeuvring, but a genuine effort in the interests of Australia. As such I support it. To those who think that the Prime Minister's place is in Australia, I say, " What can he do here that he could not do better in England ? " Any enemy which would attack us must first sweep the oceans clean before it can bring to our shores an armed force, and then it must overwhelm the forces that we set against it before it oan achieve its objective. It is true that Australia is a country with fewer than 8,000,000 inhabitants, and can put only a comparatively small number of men in the field, but Australians have proved themselves among the world's best fighters on land, sea, and in the air. I urge honorable senators not to do anything which may place us in a more dangerous position, but to leave no stone unturned to obtain from Britain the assistance we may need to maintain those ideals for which we are fighting. At such a time as this, I deplore anything but a realization of the danger confronting us, and therefore I repeat that, by sending our Prime Minister to the heart of the Empire, we shall be most likely to achieve the best results for the people of this country. 
 He did not say anything like that. 
.- I am glad to have that assurance. I did not attempt to quote the exact words of the honorable senator, but I did say that the implication of his remarks was that all who dared to question the wisdom of sending the Prime Minister to England were guilty of acting against the best interests of this country. He asked us to " rise above that sort of thing ". What is the implication of that remark? It is that the Prime Minister and the members of his Government must necessarily know best. That is the attitude adopted by Hitler and Mussolini. Hitler says, " I am the State, and all who dare to suggest that I -am either ignorant or am influenced by ulterior motives are traitors to the State ". I thought that  Senator A.  J. McLachlan would discuss the merits of the document before us, as he is capable of doing, rather than that he should, by implication and innuendo, try to create the impression that we on this side are not just as loyal and sincere as he thinks himself to be. If the Government considered it right and proper on its own responsibility to send  Mr. Menzies  as Prime Minister to England earlier in the year, why did it not do so on this occasion? We have had an assurance from  Senator A.  J. McLachlan that, if he had the say, the Prime Minister would have gone to London on this occasion on the Government's responsibility. Had he done so I would have been the first to commend him for his courage. Why has not the Government had the moral courage to exercise its prerogative in this respect as it did on a former occasion? I suggest that all the evidence goes to prove that it is because it no longer has the backing of those who previously supported it. 
.- The Prime Minister, realizing the position, said, " If I go to England in response to the request of Cabinet, all the possibilities, based upon the evidence as I know it, are that I shall be  displaced during my absence ". The right honorable gentleman said, in effect,  "1  shall go only if a sufficient number of the members of the Opposition are prepared to support my going ". With my colleagues in the caucus, in the name of the Opposition, I oppose the Prime Minister's visit to England, and I submit that 1 have good grounds for doing so. The right honorable gentleman owes no allegiance to the policy of the Labour party. He gave us no assurance that he would consider the Opposition in the slightest if he were selected to represent Australia abroad. He asked, in effect, that he be sent as Prime Minister and be given a free hand as far as the Opposition is concerned. 
Generally speaking, Labour's policy in this war is that there shall be equality of sacrifice, that no man or woman shall, as shareholder or director of privately controlled monopolies, reap a veritable harvest of profits as a result of this war, and that, to the degree that profits are allowed to be appropriated by these people, the efforts of the nation in its war-time activities are handicapped. If the public press is to be. believed, and if his utterances on various occasions are to be given credence, the Prime Minister is opposed to any proposition that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, for example, should be declared a national utility for the duration of the war, that its staff should -be directly responsible, not to a few shareholders laying down terni3 to the nation, but to the Government, that no profits should he ear-marked by the company during the war period, and that those who are living on its profits should be given an opportunity to do some useful work in the interests of the nation. The right honorable gentleman would oppose such a proposition because he is pledged to the principle of privately-owned monopolies in Australia and their policy of profiteering at the expense of the nation. That is where we join issue with the Government. There are many thousands of young, virile men and women who could be employed to much better advantage than they are to-day if the Government were prepared to take the necessary action. Instead of living upon the efforts of those who provide food, clothing and shelter, they should be contributing their share in building up the national effort. To-day  Senator A.  J. McLachlan almost shed tears of blood in his appeal to the passions or prejudices of the people, with the object of discrediting the Labour party which dares to challenge the Government's policy in that direction. For my part, I assure honorable senators opposite that, as a member of this chamber, and on the public platform, whenever and wherever the opportunity is offered to me, I shall show that the Government and its supporters go only part of the way towards organizing an all-in war-time effort in the interests of the nation. In every country town, in every capital city, an enormous wastage of man-power and material goes- on- because the Government lacks the moral courage 'to prevent it, and  Senator A.  J. McLachlan and other honorable senators opposite reflect on members of the Labour party because they dare to direct attention to it. That state of affairs has existed in England not only before the war, but also since. Possibly, I may be charged with taking up a seditious attitude when I say that, with the knowledge of the British Government, certain groups of financiers in England, France and the United States of America did more to build up the German military machine than the Germans were capable of doing themselves. We cannot but keep those things in mind - we have long memories - and we are determined that, as far as it is humanly possible to prevent it, we shall not allow what was done in that direction in the South African war and in the last war to be repeated in this war. 
I come now to the Ministerial statement made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  this afternoon.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan described it as a momentous statement. I disagree entirely with the honorable gentleman; it is a perfectly innocuous statement. A great deal more than what was included in that statement could be said, but for perfectly obvious reasons it is not said because it would direct the attention of  the  people to the very state of affairs to which 1 have referred. Whilst the Empire is fighting for its very existence and out men overseas are fighting and dying in their thousands, this Government is mortgaging those who come back up to their very eyebrows to pay interest in perpetuity, not to those who worked for the success of the cause, not to those who fought and bled in the defence of all they held dear, but to the financiers and money lenders of this country whom honorable senators opposite attempt to vindicate. The Leader of the Senate could have directed attention to that state of affairs, but he did not do so. The opening sentence in the Minister's statement was - 
Honorable senators are, in a broad sense, familiar  with  the developments in the international field. 
We are familiar with those developments only within limitations. We were told in another place yesterday that certain things could not be divulged. We, who are supposed to be the representatives of the people, are asked to accept at their face value those who tell us that certain things should not be told. I have not the least objection to their having a good opinion of themselves. 
I am glad to have that interjection because it gives me the opportunity to say that the Labour members of the Australian Advisory War Council were not consulted in respect of some of the major actions performed by this Government. That supports my contention at the outset of my remarks that, because we will not be " Yes " men, because we will not acquiesce completely in the wishes of the Government, because we will not accept these gentlemen at their face value.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan and others imply that we refuse to face up to the realities of the position. These gentlemen may consider that they are competent to judge what is good for us to know and what is- not good for us to know. I do not accept the competence of these people to judge, and I prefer to rely upon my own capacity. I am influenced much more by tendencies which I have observed from day to day, and by actual results, than by written statements of this kind, intended for public consumption. This declaration is meant to create the impression in the minds of the people that everything is all right, whereas we know perfectly well that everything is a long way from being quite all right; we know that a good deal more could be done to right many wrongs. Therefore I do not accept the statement. 
I come now to the eight points contained in the statement, and I shall deal particularly with numbers 5 and 6. The fifth point is -  . . they desire to bring about the fullest collaboration between all nations in the economic field, with the object of securing for all, improved labour standards, economic advancements, and social security. " They " in that case refers to Great Britain and America. I would accept that declaration were it not for the fact that all past evidence has been to the contrary. Let us go back so far as the South African War and see what happened then. In that conflict thousands of Australian, Scottish, Irish and English workers fought for the British Empire; they were victorious, but what was their reward? Immediately after victory had been achieved, the late Lord Milner and others began to import thousands of Chinese coolies to work mines formerly operated by white workers at higher wages. 
.- The inference is that according to past experience the aims Bet out in the fifth point of the Prime Minister's statement are not likely to be achieved. If I thought they would be achieved I should certainly welcome that declaration. Let us examine also what happened after the last war. When Germany was defeated she was compelled to pay enormous indemnities, and whilst nobody quarrelled with the necessity to penalize Germany at that stage, this was the effect: The Germans worked for a mere pittance and supplied coal and manufactured goods to England and other countries, with the result that the workers in those countries practically starved for years afterwards. With that evidence in mind, it cannot be argued that improved labour standards and economic advancement have been achieved in the past. A similar position arose in the United States of America after the last war, when that country became the leading creditor nation, whereas formerly it was a debtor nation. During the last war enormous profits were made, and the aftermath was such that even right up to the outbreak of the present war the United States of America had a floating population of 10,000,000 permanently unemployed. In view of these things, I cannot shut my eyes entirely to what has happened in the past. If I thought that the best results could be obtained by doing so, and that there would not be a repetition of these unfortunate events, I should willingly forget the past, but when I see the trend of present events, particularly in respect of the borrowing policy of this Government which will have the effect of committing the men who have fought aud the men1 who have worked in the factories, to the payment of enormous sums in perpetuity to people who neither fought nor worked, I am not prepared to forget the past. It is necessary that the Government and the people should be reminded of these things. 
.- The honorable senator will recollect that I replied to that suggestion before. There can be no real national government until all essential industries and services are owned by the nation. Ownership of the means by which we live and the means of production determines the political superstructure which takes the form of a government. The present Government is a political superstructure forced into existence by private monopoly ownership of the means of production, and the longer this war lasts the nearer we shall come to deciding whether a few persons are to be permitted to own Australia for their own benefit, advantage, profit and prestige and power, or whether the people as a whole are to have that ownership. One of the reasons why Parliament is not allowed to meet more frequently than it does to discuss important matters on their merits, and without indulging in  personalities,  is because of the danger to the existing system which has been responsible for the onset of this war, and all the poverty and unemployment which has existed throughout the world. If Parliament met more often and debated these matters on their merits, as they should be debated, we should be a great deal better off than we are to-day, and there would be something approximating to the unity which honorable senators opposite have asked for. They have asked " why drag in party politics ? " "We do not drag in party politics; we are dragged in by them, and we either have to submit to a system under which profiteering is being progressively increased to the detriment of the workers and others, or challenge it. I prefer to challenge it. I would rather see party politics out of the scheme of things altogether, but so long as just a few people own the means by which other men live, and are able to lay down the terms under which they shall work, party politics will remain despite all the eloquent pleas of honorable senators opposite. Why not face the real position instead of trying to gloss it over as has been done by the Minister for Aircraft Production,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, and Others who regard it as the most unforgivable crime in the calendar that any one should dare to place his sacriligious  paws on their cherished theories. The need for Parliament to meet more frequently is beyond question. I say more than that : If this Parliament goes into recess; if discussion1 of these issues is shirked ; if the people who would challenge them are ignored or are interned as was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  recently, then the Government is merely prolonging the agony and the remedy will be much more severe than would be the case if this position were analysed as it should be at the outset. The sixth point in the Prime Minister's statement was - 
After the final destruction of Nazi tyranny, they hope to see the establishment of a peace which will afford all nations means of dwelling in safety within their own boundaries, and which will afford assurance that all the men in all the lands may live out their lives in freedom from fear and want. 
I could accept that also if it were not for what has been done in the past and what is being done to-day. 
.- I know what the tendencies of the future are, although I trust that it will be much happier than present tendencies indicate. 
Perhaps not in the physical sense, but I am afraid that in the economic sense it will. 
What is "Nazi tyranny"? Nazi tyranny is something which would reduce the working classes to the level of mere slaves by making them industrial and military conscripts, and forcing them to accept the will of a dictator or dictators, expressed by men like Hitler. We are all opposed to Nazi tyranny, but the tendencies to-day indicate that we ourselves shall have a modified sort of Nazi tyranny. For example, it has been suggested that stronger action should be taken against men who go on strike. If that were done we would have precisely the same action that was taken in Germany, which led ultimately to the present position. When we have a document such as this, and statements are made similar to those to which I have directed attention, it is the duty of those of us who know what has been done in the past, and what is being done now, to draw attention to those things. Even if we may not succeed in preventing the harm that will be done, we may succeed in lessening that harm. The statement read by the Leader of the Senate this afternoon contained this paragraph - 
This declaration sets out in plain language the fundamental aspirations of all the libertyloving peoples of the world. It is, so to apeak, a declaration of human rights. Its moral effect, not only outside of Europe, but also inside Europe, will be enormous. It is  sl  reminder to us that the new order for the world, of which we have from time to time spoken, is now in the making, and that the war must be regarded, not merely as a great  struggle  in which evil things must be overthrown, but also as something from which positively good things for men and women must emerge. 
The last sentence seems to justify the war. It seems to say that war is a good thing, because out of war will emerge other good things. That is the logic of that passage. However, I remind honorable senators that a similar declaration was made during the last war. The con flict of 1914-18 was described as " a war to end war " and as " a war to save democracy ". 
.- The theory was good; but the practice was the reverse. That is exactly what I am challenging. Theories which appeal to us are contradicted when things are done, and policies and schemes are given effect to which make it impossible for war to be ended. Such policies and schemes were implemented after the last war. The Minister's statement also refers to a new order for the world. I agree with that reference. Out of this war will come a new order, but it will come, unfortunately, because the people cannot be reasoned into accepting a new order; they are virtually being bombed into accepting it. To-day, in England, as the result of this war, a new conception of society is developing in the minds of the common people, who are doing, not the talking, but the fighting and the working. They are developing a conception of the order to be; and it is mainly because they can the result of experience and costly and tragic disillusionment, that the ideas of the representatives of their governments previously were all wrong; that, instead of leading to a new and better order, such ideas led to a worse state of affairs than existed before the last war. So, as the result of war, a new order is developing. Other influences also will operate in that direction. The very foundation of society is the ownership of the means by which the people live. The old order, based on individual ownership, by which the millions lived, is being replaced by the economic system for which this Government stands, and is leading to the establishment of private monopolies much more extensive and much more profitable than ever existed before the war. All of the small primary producers, the fruit-growers, wheat-growers, poultryraisers and dairy-farmers and others will be either starved or swept out of existence with the result that the order coming will  be  monopoly ownership of primary as well as secondary production. Then, the fight will  be  fought as to who shall own those monopolies. Is it to  be  private enterprise or the nation? 
We on this side stand for national ownership, while honorable senators opposite,  uncomprisingly,  stand for the right of a few people to own the means of production which are the means by which all the people live. Then will be the war which will decide the new order. If the new order be private monopoly ownership, we shall have a state of affairs in England and America similar to that existing in Germany to-day; but if it be ownership by the people, we shall have the new order to which reference has been made by honorable senators on this side, w ho have pointed to the necessity for it so that people may live free from the fear of unemployment, poverty or war. On page 3 of the ministerial statement, we read - 
The important thing for us is not comfortably to watch the progress of events in Russia, but to use to the best advantage the breathingspace given to us by Russian resistance. 
We can agree with that statement; but is that being done? I say that it is not. So long as we have so many thousands of men and women occupied in luxury and nonessential industries and in duplicating and multiplying services of all kinds, so long as that state of affairs prevails for the profit of the gentlemen whom  Senator A.  J. McLachlan represents in this chamber, we shall not use to the best advantage the breathing space afforded by the Russian resistance. The Government is simply going to allow things to remain more or less as they were, so that if the improvement in the direction I have indicated is to be made, it will be made unfortunately as the result of something which shall happen in Melbourne and Sydney and throughout Australia similar to that which is now happening in England. So eminent a person as  Sir Robert  Vansittart, Chief Diplomatic Advisor to the British Government, has pointed out the degree to which his own Government has been responsible for the lag in the nation's effort before the war, and since the commencement of the war. We can hardly question such an authority. I say with that gentleman that, if we are to make the best use of our opportunity now, the Government will begin to do things in that direction rather than impute ulterior motives to honorable sena- tors on this side of the chamber. It will show by its actions that it is thoroughly sincere. The Minister for Aircraft Production said that the Government has done things. No one will deny that. But I emphasize that things have not been done to the degree in which they could be done, and will have to be done if this war lasts very much longer. The honorable senator claimed for the Government that it was now employing thousands of men and women in munition factories. If no war had occurred, those men and women would still be on the dole. The Government has been driven by the exigencies of war to employ those men and women who were semi-starved before the war. Now that many of the unemployed, for instance 15,000 in Melbourne, have enlisted, they are regarded as heroes, whereas formerly they were regarded as nuisances and not worth anything more than the dole. Indeed, when they became refractory, or rebellious, the police were used to bludgeon them into submission. Consequently, I urge the Government to make a more critical study of this document than, apparently, it ha3 made. 
Dealing with the status of a possible representative of Australia in London, to represent Australia's point of view on war policy, the Leader of the Senate said - 
In all these matters it is the opinion of the Prime Minister and his colleagues of great importance that Australia's voice should be heard directly in the place in which the major decisions are inevitably made. 
What is Australia's voice? Does the Government speak as Australia's voice, or do the members of this Opposition? The only thing that could be said to be the voice of Australia would be a decision of the people on any major issue, and the decision of the people at the last election was against the Government. 
.- The aggregate votes ca3t at the last election showed clearly that Labour represents the voice of the people to a greater decree than the Government. Consequently, it is misleading to say that Australia's voice will be heard in London through a representative of this Government. What would be heard there would be the Government's voice, but that is not necessarily the voice of Australia. 
If  the  Government  has  the moral courage to stand up to ita responsibility, it will see that  its  voice is heard. The ministerial statement also contained the following remarks: - 
In saying this no criticism of the Prime Minister of Great Britain or of his War Cabinet is offered. In hia visit earlier in the year, the Prime Minister of Australia found them in the highest degree co-operative, willing to listen to the Australian view, willing to attach  significance  and weight to special Australian interests. 
I should say that that statement is  true  within limitations. I could imagine the British Government and the British High Command listening to views expressed by a representative from Australia, but those bodies would please themselves whether they accepted those views. If they appealed to either body, the views would probably be accepted; but, if not, they would probably be rejected. The implication of the ministerial statement is that whatever we said would be  given  much more consideration than has been usual in the past. That is not so. 
I ask for senators on this side, the same right as is demanded by honorable senators opposite, who claim to be free to express the opinions they hold. During the Boer "War, and during the 1914-18 War, as in the present war, remarks were made concerning representatives of Labour, implying that they were traitors to their country. The Prime Minister himself, if the press report be correct, has referred to certain men employed in munition factories as traitors. When terms such as that are used, there is an appeal to the passions and prejudices of the people, and not to their reason, and argument of that kind does not reflect credit upon the Prime Minister or any other member of this Parliament who resorts to it. I regard such implications, as that Labour men are working in the interests of the enemy, as cowardly and contemptible. The Minister for Aircraft Production stated that he regarded the Prime Minister as one of the three big men in the Empire. The honorable senator is entitled to that opinion, but I should say that there are also big men in the fighting forces, in the munition factories, and everywhere else where war work has to be done. Are we to believe that if the Prime Minister were displaced from his present position, or met with an accident which rendered him helpless, Australia would be defeated? It would be wrong to draw such an inference, and it is an unjust reflection on the manhood of the nation. 
At the suspension of the sitting, I was endeavouring to emphasize two matters in relation to the Labour party's attitude, which seemed to be of some moment. The first was that we on this side of the chamber, indeed, supporters of the Government in both Houses, think that it is necessary that an accredited representative of the Commonwealth Parliament should be in London, and should participate in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet. That representative should be the Prime Minister. 
.- No. The second portion of the resolution passed by the Labour party provides that a representative of Australia should be present in London to take part, I presume, in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet. 
I am sorry if I have misunderstood the resolution, and I am also surprised to find that the Labour party has passed a resolution so futile that it does not contemplate our representative sitting in the British War Cabinet. 
es. - To whom? 
The place where Australia's viewpoint should be expressed is before the British War Cabinet, which has the responsibility of determining matters of high policy. There is no other body before whom our views could be placed unless the Labour party contemplates the formation of some other authoritative body. The only body before which Australian representations could be effective, and in which a representative could take an effective part, is the British War Cabinet. 
I believe that it was a good thing for Australia and for Australians that, at the time of the Greece and Crete campaigns, our Prime Minister was in London, and could put our view before the British War Cabinet. I do not think we lost anything by that. In fact, I am sure we gained a great deal. We shall not get very far by going back to what happened last February. We are dealing with the situation as it exists to-day, and the Government of this country unanimously decided that, in the' existing situation, it was desirable that Australia's voice should be heard in the British War Cabinet. There is only one practical way in which that can be done, and that is by sending the Prime Minister to London. That is the real essence of the proposal. The Labour party's attitude is quite inconsistent. First, it refuses to accede to the sending to England of the only man who is capable of expressing our views in the British War Cabinet. I hope I shall not be misunderstood' when I say that. I am not referring to the person at present holding the office ; I am referring to the fact that the Prime Minister of Australia, whoever he may be, has the right of entry into the British War Cabinet, whereas, nobody else has that right. 
.- The honorable senator's information must be a little later than mine. I say quite definitely that there is only one person in this country who has the right of entry into the British War Cabinet, and that is the Prime Minister. That is indisputable. 
That is beside the point for this reason : This is a matter of urgency. We want our voice to be heard in the British War Cabinet as soon as the Prime Minister can get to England, and to continue to be heard so long as that is considered necessary in the interests of the Australian people. 
.- No, but the Labour party's attitude at present is in keeping with its outlook during the whole war. 
I am not doing (that. I should not be speaking in this strain were it not for some of the things that the Loader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  said to-day. It is all very well to say that until now the Labour party has  supported every financial measure brought forward by the Government. That is true, but, I have heard the Leader of the Opposition say in effect "We shall vote for this measure, but it is not our responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Government because the Government has introduced it. We shall cast our votes for any financial proposals which the Government brings forward in relation to this war but we shall not take any responsibility ". 
To that degree, yes. The Leader of the Opposition complains that we have not achieved a total war effort. I am inclined to agree with him. We certainly have not achieved a total war effort in this Parliament. 
All responsibility for the absence of a total war effort in this Parliament rests with the Opposition. 
.- I do not intend to allow myself to be side-tracked by such issues. I say definitely and with the deepest regret that the party represented by the Leader of the Opposition has consistently refused to accept responsibility, and that is the real test. It does not come well from the Opposition to chide the Government with not having made a total war effort when honorable senators opposite are not prepared to cooperate in any way in accepting executive responsibility for whatever decisions that have to be made. 
It is unnecessary for me to go over all the history of the proposals for a national government in this country. The Labour party has been invited to send its representatives into the Cabinet; it has been invited to accept executive responsibility on the Advisory War Council. But noAll co-operation has stopped at the point at which it would really become effective. It has stopped at taking whatever decisions are necessary for a successful prosecution of this war. The same attitude is manifest again here to-day. The simple fact is that the Prime Minister, or whoever goes to England, if he is going to voice the opinions of the Australian people effectively, must go as a representative of every section of this Parliament. But the Opposition says " The Prime Minister may go if he likes but he will not have our blessing. He will not speak for us, and when he is over there we shall reserve to ourselves the right to dispute whatever decisions he may make on behalf of the Australian people". That situation is absolutely impossible. It has been suggested by honorable senators opposite that there is something sinister in the Prime Minister's statement that he will go to England only if he has the endorsement of all political parties. Surely there can be nothing sinister about that. He is merely saying, "I will go if I am the endorsed representative of the Parliament of this country ". 
He is the properly constituted Prime Minister of this country, and he will remain so until such time as the position is altered. As the properly constituted Prime Minister, he is entitled to represent his country on all vital matters of this kind. Surely it would be an excellent thing if he could embark upon the mission with the approval of every section of the Australian people. I cannot see any reason why that assistance should not be afforded to him in undertaking a task of this kind. I regret very much the decision at which the Labour party has arrived, and I believe it a decision which it may regret. I entirely endorse everything that was said by my colleague,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan. These are dangerous days; days when we cannot afford to continue to carry on this game of party politics which some seem to be so fond of playing. Apparently the Opposition is not prepared to sink party identities to the extent of saying to the accredited representative of the Australian people " Go on this mission with our goodwill and express the views of the Australian people in the councils of the Empire ". I shall be very sorry indeed if the Labour party's decision is the cause of the Prime Minister not embarking on this mission and so not being able to express in the councils of the Empire the views of the Australian people, which, I believe, should be expressed there at the present time. 
 That is unfair. 
.- What did he do during his absence that resulted in any major advantage to Australia? Not one honorable senator in this chamber hae told us of the wonderful work that he did while he was abroad. We were certainly told that he had consented to certain action being taken in Greece and Crete ; but I remind the Senate that those moves were decided upon without consultation with the Australian War Advisory Council, a body specifically established to consider such matters. On that occasion the consenting voice was the voice of the Prime Minister, but not that of the whole of the people of Australia. Having returned from England, this great genius was placed, by the sycophant press, on the highest pedestal ever occupied by any Prime Minister of this country. This National Parliament was then sitting and a request was made that the Parliament should be adjourned for two or three weeks in order to give tha Prime Minister an opportunity to prepare legislation to give effect to what were said to be revolutionary changes necessary for an all-in war effort. Parliament consented to the request, but the recess, instead of lasting two or three weeks, lasted for four or five weeks. When Parliament was finally assembled we expected to hear about the revolutionary proposals foreshadowed by the Prime Minister as being urgently necessary for the more successful prosecution of the .war abroad and for the more complete defence of this country. On the first sitting day the proceedings in the Senate were limited to the passage of motions of condolence. The next day we were permitted to ask a few questions, but no answers were supplied, for the Senate was again adjourned for another four or five weeks in order to give the Treasurer an opportunity to prepare his budget. Even now, approximately three months after the  return of the Prime Minister from England we find that the budget is .still not yet ready for submission to the Parliament. The reason for the delay is obvious. The Prime Minister has not the courage to face the Parliament after the budget has been brought down. He prefers to scuttle away to England, hoping that, once again, Labour will agree not to challenge the Government during his absence.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan roared like a lion in his efforts to frighten honorable senators on this side of the chamber. I assure the honorable senator that his efforts to create a psychology of fear will fail. For my part, I have always had enough backbone to say what I think in this chamber. The honorable senator may roar like a lion, but we do not forget that at one time he was receiving the lion's share as a director of companies contracting with the Government. But for his association with those companies he may have been in the Ministry to-day.  Senator Spicer  says that the Prime Minister is the only man in Australia to-day whose representations would be considered by the British Government. I am not opposed to Australia being represented at meetings of the Imperial War Cabinet. On the contrary, I believe that Australia should be adequately represented at such, meetings; but I do not agree with honorable senators opposite that the Prime Minister is the only man in this country capable of putting Australia's views before the statesmen of Great Britain. 
And I, too, in that event, would maintain that the place of the Prime Minister in the hour of crisis was in his own country. There are many men on both sides of the chambers of this Parliament who are quite capable of putting the views of the .Australian people before the free statesmen of Britain. Does  Senator Spicer  imagine for one moment that the Prime Minister and the statesmen of Great Britain would not listen attentively to a delegate from this Parliament vested with power to speak with authority on the opinions and feelings of the Australian people? Does the honorable senator say that simply because such a delegate did not occupy the high office of Prime Minister of Australia he would be ignored by British statesmen? If that is the position, what are we fighting for, democracy or autocracy? 
I agree. I claim that the leaders in Great Britain also realize that position and that if a representative of the Government were sent to Britain with full authority to speak on behalf of the Government of Australia he would be gladly welcomed by  Mr. Churchill  and the British War Cabinet. In seeking to leave Australia in these anxious days, the Prime Minister himself is merely indulging in political strategy; to use his own words he is merely playing the diabolical game of politics. When the Prime Minister return'ed from his last visit to England he said that he was sick and tired of the diabolical game of politics but both he and his party are the first to indulge in this diabolical game in an effort to avoid the consequences of a budget which they know must be unpopular and result in their defeat. Since his return to Australia the Prime Minister has had ample time to collaborate with the Treasurer and the members of his Cabinet in the preparation of the budget. Can any honorable senator opposite tell us of one major problem that has arisen in the last three months that will not be lifted and passed to one side in the next three months? 
.- That is true; but if the honorable senator had u£ed his intelligence he should have seen that coming six months ago. If the honorable senator had taken notice of the warnings given to him by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  two years ago, and by the Prime Minister just prior to the outbreak of the war, he would have been able to foreshadow these developments in the Far Ea3t. We told him over and over again what was certain to happen. Our warning fell on deaf ears because honorable senators opposite did not want to hear it. Only when the enemy is practically knocking at the door will they stop to listen to us. The Opposition has also been charged with refusing to accept responsibility. I say definitely that the Opposition refused to accept the responsibility for putting into operation the policy of the present Government. Can the honorable senator who made that accusation show that at any time the Government was willing to meet the Opposition half way in matters of policy? 
.-The Government offered to the Opposition a number of seats in the Ministry, but only on the condition that its own policy was put into operation. 
I am not. I know of the negotiations which took place between the Government and the Opposition after the last elections. I know what was offered by the Government, and what was not offered. The Opposition was offered a certain number of seats in the Ministry, but the Government stipulated that its own policy should be implemented. It refused to meet the Opposition half way in matters of policy. I challenge honorable senators opposite to show that the Opposition has refused to co-operate in an effective war effort. Advice which it has offered to the Government has been ignored at the time, although later the Government has given effect to the suggestions and claimed the credit for them.For instance, the Government takes credit for the improvement of the position in regard to employment, whereas irrespective of the government in power, employment would automatically have increased as the result of the war effort. There are to-day approximately 600,000 men in the various fighting forces. That number corresponds with the number of men who were out of employment when the war began. 
.- The number of unemployed was then greater than 600,000. The country's war effort has reduced unemployment automatically, regardless of the purely political constitution of the Government. It may be that the Government is paying too much regard to the first line of defence, and is giving too little attention to the second line of defence - the manufacture of munitions and the supply of food and other articles required by the men in the fighting forces. The Opposition has been criticized for its refusal to allow the Prime Minister to run away from Australia and shirk his responsibility - I cannot describe otherwise the proposal that the right honorable gentleman should go to London  -  and for urging that he should concentrate his attention on the major problems confronting this nation. I agree that Australia is in greater danger than ever before in its history. Indeed, the danger is so great, and the problems confronting the country are so grave, that the greatest genius in Australia should be in this country to grapple with the problems awaiting solution. If the Prime Minister be the great genius that honorable senators opposite claim that he  is,  his place is in Australia. There are other persons in the community who, if clothed with the same authority, would be just as acceptable to the members of the British War Cabinet as would be the present Prime Minister himself. I should take the same attitude if  Mr. Curtin  were Prime Minister in a Labour government at this time. The place of the Government leader is in Australia. Another responsible Minister could represent him in Great Britain and put  Australia's  views before the British Cabinet. The views which the British Government should have placed before  it  are not those of any individual, but the views of the Commonwealth Government, as representative of the people of Australia. 
on -  We remember well ; it was a memorable speech. 
.- Exactly, and I have never heard the Leader of the Labour party in this Parliament make a finer speech than when he addressed himself to this matter. I am glad to number him among my friends of many years' standing. He is a great Australian, and [ know that he can see what I think I can see. From where shall we get the ships we require so urgently for our defence? They must come from the Motherland, or from that other great democracy across the Pacific. I feel sad that we should quibble about these things. My colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Aylett,  spoke of the Prime Minister deserting Australia. In my humble opinion the Prime Minister's place in this crisis is at the heart of the Empire. It has been said, although, perhaps, it does not represent an opinion held widely in the Old Country, that it may be necessary in order to protect the heart of the Empire to let some of the far-flung Dominions go for a time with a view to recovering them later. Our peril, as I view it, is a nightmare to me.  In  the past, Australia has lived too easily, too securely and smugly under the protecting wing of the British navy, and we have been too self-satisfied and complacent to take up the burden of our own defence. Yet we hear the childish boast that if a foe landed on our shores Australian manhood would rise  en masse  to our defence. But with what? Most of them are untrained. 
Ever since I was elected to this chamber in 1925  1  have preached the doctrine of defence preparedness, but very often members of the honorable senator's party greeted my exhortations with cheap sneers. The plain fact is that to-day our chickens are coming home to roost. They are now at our northern door. The preceding  speaker  described our situation as farcical. It is a tragedy, as I am sure many honorable senators realize only too fully. Some people adopt the attitude that no news is good news. I know of hundreds of men who  do  not agree with that view, particularly when they have had no news of their sons in Greece, Crete and Tobruk. Constantly at the back of their minds is the inescapable dread that one day the postman will deliver the communication telling them that their baby kid is dead  or  maimed. In this crisis the Prime Minister's place is in London. Whether he be Menzies or Curtin,  he  should be on the spot in order to be able to put Australia's point of view at  the Avar  councils in London. Any one who reads the official history of Australia's effort in the last  war, vol.  XL, compiled by the late Professor Ernest Scott, coolly and dispassionately, will realize what it would mean  to  this country and to our soldiers to have our Prime Minister in" London taking part in those councils. 
.- As an old soldier, the honorable senator should know  of  some of the things which the 
Prime Minister of this country did for Australian soldiers in the last war. Who was it that fought for and won Anzac leave for the Australian Imperial Force? William Morris Hughes, who was on the spot. Botten motives have been imputed to the Government. It has been said that the Prime Minister wants to go on an election tour, that he wants to run away from the budget, and that this proposal is a piece of political strategy. We shall not worry about political strategy in the . near future if we do not face this problem frankly and honestly to-day. I repeat that at this particular time  Ave  must send to London some Australian, and the Prime Minister is the best man for the job, to speak with authority and gain access to the inner-most councils of the Empire. In my opinion, the Prime Minister should be in London. It is said that, as he may be needed here in the event of an emergency, he should remain in Australia, but should he not now be where he could render the greatest service to this country ? During the last war, I was in command of a battalion for a time, and my experience convinced me that it is well-nigh impossible for the average stay-at-home Englishman and official to understand the Australian point of view. Many times during the last war situations arose in which it was necessary for the views of Australia to be understood, and similar circumstances are bound to arise in connexion with the present war. Another Minister of the Crown would not carry the same weight in London as the first citizen of Australia. The Prime Minister would be able to present our case lucidly and demand that our views be carefully considered before important decisions were reached. 
 Lady Astor! 
But once more criticism has thwarted his plans. I have just had the privilege of touring portions of Tasmania, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. I have spoken to many people, and the Prime Minister's name is mud. Nobody will have him. They say that he is not their leader and that he must be displaced. They naturally want to know why the Labour party has not taken advantage of its opportunity to take over the reins of office.  Mr. Menzies,  realizing that he was unpopular with the majority of the people, determined that it would be unsafe for him to leave Australia without the support of the Labour party. So, on the day before Parliament was summoned to meet, he determined that, unless all parties agreed, he would not go to London. Prior to that it had been determined by the Cabinet that  Mr. Menzies  should take part in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet in London. This morning the parliamentary representatives of the Labour party decided against the proposal. Since then there has been a hurried meeting of the Cabinet. I do not know whether the consensus of opinion amongst Cabinet Ministers coincides with the views expressed by  Senator Leckie  and  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, or whether the Prime Minister has changed his mind and concurs with the stated opinions of those members of his party who were willing to rail-road him as a matter of political expediency. However, despite the fact that all parties did not agree to his proposed visit to London,  Mr. Menzies  is still Prime Minister, and the members of the Cabinet who constitute the Government can send him to London. Probably he will go to London; but if he does, he will go against the wishes of more than 50 per cent. of the Australian people. If he leaves Australia he can expect no support from the Labour party.  His  Government has not carried out its task of protecting the Australian people, and those who support it must bear equally the responsibility for its failure to do so. If I were certain that the Government had faithfully carried out its task of providing adequately for the defence of this continent, I would be willing to agree to the 
Prime Minister leaving Australia to take part in the deliberations of Empire statesmen abroad; but unfortunately that is not so. Therefore, the Labour party is perfectly right in insisting that, as defence co-ordinator charged with the responsibility of ensuring that Australia is adequately defended against invasion by a potential enemy, the Prime Minister should remain here. Every one of us realizes that this potential enemy might at any time become a real enemy, and in order to guard against such a contingency everything possible should be done to make our shores impregnable against attack from the sea. Our first line of defence may be the shores of Australia and not the fortress of Singapore. If, unf ortunately, it should become necessary to withdraw our troops from Malaya as we had to withdraw them from Greece and Crete, we should be sure that when they arrive back in Australia they will be asked to man defences equal to those provided at Malta, Alexandria and other strongholds of the Empire. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator James  McLachlan) adjourned. 
It is necessary, after the reading by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  of the statement to which we have just listened, that discussion should take place, and that the Opposition should have an opportunity at least to state its position regarding the one matter of importance which the statement opens up. In order that we may get a proper background and a wise outlook on the problem we are asked to resolve, it is necessary to look back over happenings during .recent weeks. I propose to do that briefly, before referring to the statement itself in greater, detail. For a very long while, the press of Australia has been rendering a very serious disservice to Australia by the attitude that it has adopted towards the parties constituting the Parliament of the Commonwealth. Day after day, week after week, and month after month, in the syndicated press of Australia - and that embraces practically every newspaper - and every night, afternoon and morning over the air, there has been an insistent demand that the game of party politics should not be played, and that the one thing essentially needed is that the Labour party become part and parcel of a national government. The Labour party in this country was too astute to fall into that trap. Consequently, all the weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth has ceased, and to-day, apparently, it is no longer important that the party which the Government hates should be taken into a sleeping partnership so far as the conduct of the war is concerned. But while the party to which I belong, and which the Opposition represents in thi, branch of the legislature of this country, was too astute to fall into that trap, at the same time it was right enough and sane enough and Australian enough to declare over and over again where it stands with regard to the prosecution of the war. There is no need for me now to reiterate those declarations of policy. All I need to do is to draw attention again to the fact that we have cooperated with the Government in the prosecution of its war effort to the fullest degree possible from the very commencement of the war until this afternoon. That does not mean that we have accepted without criticism all of the actions and decisions of the Government in connexion with its war policy; but it does mean that we have, without quibbling, agreed to every penny of its appropriations for war purposes. We may have our own opinions as to whether we are not getting beyond Australia's capacity in that connexion; but we did not stress those things. We did not vote against any Supply proposals of the Government, nor have we done so since. 
That brings the history of recent happenings reasonably up to date. That plan having failed, we now hear very little, if anything, about it. There is no need to traverse all that ground again this afternoon. We have been accused of all the crimes in the political calendar and, in the same breath, we have been told that we on this side are jolly fine fellows, and that the only thing needed to complete our redemption is that we go into the Government. Honorable senators opposite cannot have it both ways. Either the policy of this party, as expounded by  our leader and by all honorable senators on this side of the chamber, is such that the Government cannot embrace it, or it is proper, and we are or are not proper people. But it will be noted that none of the appointments that have been made by this Government in connexion with its activities, either of men it has sent abroad or appointed to high administrative offices in this country, has been given to a Labour man. Indeed, on the one occasion when an attempt was made to bring a very capable ex-Labour man and ex-Minister of the Commonwealth into the ambit of the war operations of this Government, the Government itself very nearly collapsed with political epilepsy. The facts show that if we were purchasable we might have been purchased long ago. It is necessary to refer to the facts I have mentioned in order to get to the bottom of the problem we are now asked to solve. Although I cannot speak for my colleagues individually, because I have not discussed the matter with them, I think that they will agree 100 per cent, with me when I say that I am tired of these statements, and the alleged secret meetings at which so much information, which if it leaked out would be valuable to the enemy, is to be given to us, but is never given to us. That sort of thing is becoming nauseating. If some of the statements made in the document read to us this afternoon are correct, this Parliament is kept out of session for unduly long periods. On a previous occasion I said that Parliament, when the country is at war, should be kept constantly in session. I repeat that view today. I am not suggesting that in such circumstances Parliament would have business to go on with every day; but if Parliament is worth while, and if democracy is the thing we say it is and is worth preserving to such a degree that we are now involved in a world war to preserve such remnants of it as are still left, then Parliament should be kept in session in order that it can be consulted daily, and hourly, if necessary, on the momentous questions arising from time to time. But no honorable senator opposite believes that. To them, apparently, things are not so serious that Parliament should be constantly consulted, nor even sufficiently serious to warrant Parliament being consulted once a month. 
We are now getting to the stage when some of us begin to feel that we are not being given an opportunity to do the nation's job as it ought to be done. 
I now come to the statement just read by the Leader of the Senate. The plan to which I referred failed; so there is to be another plan, and it has been sprung on the community within the last few days. It was suddenly discovered that things in the Middle East and in the Pacific were of so serious a character that something very drastic had to be done. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  recently returned from a remarkable tour of many of the countries, particularly Empire countries, that are involved in the war. With his great capacity for relating his experiences, he told the Parliament, at  a  secret meeting, what he had done, where he had been, what he had seen, and the conclusions to which he had come. He told us what he considered to be essential, if Australia's war effort was to be an all-in effort. He issued what he was pleased to call a new prospectus, but there is nothing in his latest statement about that prospectus. I have yet to learn of one thing done by the Government since his return to implement it. Not one thing of major importance has been done. 
I confess that I am very disappointed at the attitude taken by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  on this subject. I had thought that the honorable senator would have taken this matter seriously; but it appears that he has merely made a joke of it The arguments advanced in support of his contention that the Prime Minister should not go abroad at this critical stage in our history are lacking in logic. I am totally unable to understand them.First of all the honorable senator depreciates the worth of the Prime Minister. He points out his manifest faults. He endeavours to show how in his opinion,  the Prime Minister and his Government have failed to carry out the task entrusted to them. Yet, in the very next breath he says that the Prime Minister should remain in Australia because his presence here is so absolutely necessary for the protection of the Commonwealth. The Leader of the Opposition first depreciates his instrument and then has the effrontery to propose that this depreciated instrument, this broken tool, should remain in Australia because his presence here is of paramount importance at this juncture. The honorable senator has the insolence and the effrontery to say that Australia, one small part of the Empire, should say to the British Government: "We shall send a delegate to London to take part in the deliberations of the Imperial War Cabinet. We demand that he be given a seat at the council table ". If we did that and our lead was followed by the other dominions what sort of a war cabinet would be established in London? I frankly admit that this Government has made a few mistakes, but in spite of the sneers of the Leader of the Opposition I claim that it has a record of which any government may be proud and of which the people of Australia are justly proud. When the history of this war is written, what this Government has prevented from being done, and what it has done to ensure the security of the people of Australia, will be regarded as great and novel achievements. As the result of the Government's timely action at the outbreak of the war the prices of commodities hare been controlled in this country to a greater degree than in any other country in the world. Australian war-time measures have been designed to achieve the greatest possible war effort with the least disturbance of the people. Apart from a few specialists, very few Australians have been hurt as the result of our war effort, but because the majority of the people have not been hurt, some among them cry out and say "We have not been hurt; therefore Australia is not putting forward its maximum war effort". It is absurd for the Leader of the Opposition to assume that, because the Labour party demands that a delegate shall be sent to London in place of the Prime Minister, the selected delegate will immediately be taken into the British War Cabinet. What would happen if such a course were adopted and  Mr. Churchill  said " This is rather cheeky. I imagine I should have been asked first to consent to such an arrangement". What then would be the attitude of the Labour party? Would  the Leader of the Opposition then say " If you do not agree we shall withdraw our soldiers from the front " ? 
I have listened with a good deal of interest to the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie),  and in my opinion he made some utterances which ill become him. I feel sure, that upon reflection, he will regret his statement that since the commencement of the war, the Labour party has not done anything to assist the Government. We have done everything within our power within that period, and particularly within the last twelve months, to help it. In order to illustrate our co-operation, I need only refer to the excellent work which has been done by the Leader of the Labour party and his colleagues on the Advisory War Council in regard to the implementation of the Government's war policy. I regret that the Government itself has not seen fit to make public recognition of the work of Labour members of that body. Our leader himself has said that he and his colleagues on the council were mainly responsible for the launching of the Government's shipbuilding programme, and the allocation of £6,000,000 for that work. Therefore, it ill becomes a responsible Minister to declare that the Labour party had done nothing to help the Government in its war effort. Such a statement is ridiculous. 
The Prime Minister has asked for the consent of all parties to his making another visit overseas. The Minister for Aircraft Production in supporting the request, reminded us that during the last war, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes),  as Prime Minister, spent two years in Great Britain. In the light of present circumstances, would the honorable senator contend that Australia's position is comparable with its position in the last war? The conflict of 1914-18 was fought 12,000 miles away. It was only to be expected that decisions involving war policy at that time would be made in Great Britain. I have not the slightest doubt that very few of those decisions depended upon the consent of the Australian Government. Indeed, I doubt whether we were directly concerned in any decision other than the supply of Australian troops to the Motherland. Our position in relation to the present conflict, however, is entirely different. No one can doubt that Australia will be called upon to make momentous decisions. No one knows that better than members of the Government. If the Labour party were in power in this Parliament to-day, and our leader was Prime Minister, I should strongly object to any proposal that he should leave this country in order to enter into discussions in London. In existing circumstances, the Prime Minister's place is in Australia. When we consider our position in relation to the present conflict as compared with the war of 1914-18, we must also bear in mind the very important factor that a nation which was an ally in 1914-18, is to-day a potential enemy. Some of the statements which have been made in support of the Prime Minister's request to be allowed to go overseas, astound me. The Prime Minister himself, in a recent speech emphasized the close collaboration which has been established between the British Government and this Government through our High Commissioner in London. We were told that by such means, this Government was daily in consultation with the British Government. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister, when he was in England, gave serious attention to the effectiveness of such  a  channel of communication between the governments of the two countries. I also believe that at that time the fullest consultation took place between the Prime Minister and the British Government in relation to possible developments in the Pacific. Therefore, the suggestion that the dangers in the Pacific are only of recent origin appears to be groundless. We have been informed in answer to various questions that the Commonwealth Government gave its unqualified approval to the despatch of Australian  troop3  to Greece. That decision was reached in consultations in which the Prime Minister himself participated when he was in London, and it was apparently arrived at with a knowledge of all of the facts, including the very disagreeable fact that our soldiers who participated in the Greek campaign were so badly equipped chat they did not have even _ a fighting chance. Hundreds of Australian lives were sacrificed in that campaign. 
However, in view of the fact that we had to honour our pledge to Greece, that mistake can be forgiven. But the  repetition  of that mistake in Crete can  never  be forgiven. We have been told that the Government  agreed  to Australia's  participation  in the Crete campaign with  a  knowledge of all the facts. 
The ministerial statement which we have heard this afternoon may be described, as one of the most momentous that has ever been brought under the notice of the Senate. I did not hear the whole of the criticism by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  who began by an attack on what he called the syndicated press. I should imagine that, if representatives of the press were present in the gallery, they had an excellent opportunity to write convincing articles concerning the conduct of this democratic chamber which would make us somewhat ashamed, because the Leader of the Opposition proceeded to play at party politics, although we are faced with a situation of the utmost gravity. About three years ago I visualized an alinement between the three powerful nations to which we are now opposed, and which I then said would prove to be the most difficult we could be called upon to fight. Now we are faced with a. powerful Germany and Italy still in a dominating position in the Mediterranean, and with our vital life-line, the Suez canal, in peril. On our northern front, the bastion that was created for our special safety at Singapore is threatened by a nation that is in partnership with the axis powers, and that nation is pursuing the selfsame policy as that adopted by the Nazis* in Germany. That nation claimed to be encircled by the " A-B-C-D " powers. Honorable senators will recollect that this technique is similar to that adopted by the Nazis in their first attack. They claimed that they were being encircled  and attacked, but the next moment they pounced and struck. What are we likely to receive from the powers associated with the Nazis? At such a time as this [ should have thought that instead of bickering between ourselves as to what the Government has done or has left undone, or indulging in personal recriminations, we should have gone forward as a united Senate to express an opinion on reasoned and sane lines that would conform with the policy of our allies, because I understand that they are all behind the war effort to crush this tyranny that may overwhelm the world. 
We are now dealing with a statement that draws attention to the danger confronting Australia. Our people have refused to accept the responsibility of defending themselves, and we have been under the sheltering arm of Britain and the great British navy. We have relied, perhaps all too trustfully, upon the assistance that would come from the other side of the Pacific, and now we are faced with the real danger that has come closer to home - a danger, as  Senator Fraser  properly pointed out, that was not present during the last war. Having regard to the fact that the destinies of Australia are at stake, and that the war is closer to our doors than ever before, we should realize that the higher war strategy is dominated and dictated by the British War Cabinet alone. That Cabinet hearkens, of course, to the opinions of the dominions. 
Listening to  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, I could not but think that, throughout his address, there was the implication that persons who differed from him, and his conception of what is right and wrong, are enemies of this country. 
.- The issue to which this debate is now reduced falls into a very small compass. It seems to me worth -while emphasizing, first of all, what are the things upon which every member of this Senate agrees. We all agree with the view of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  that it is desirable at this time that the voice of Australia should be heard in the council chamber of the Empire. I reach that conclusion because of the terms of the resolution passed by the Labour party. The second portion of the resolution acquiesced in the view that a case had been made for representation of Australia in London, and I take it that the members of the Labour party believe that that state of affairs should be brought about as soon as possible. The simple position is that there is only one practical way open to-day to achieve the object which the Labour party, in common with every other party, believes should be attained. The facts are that a Prime Minister of a dominion visiting London is entitled to take part in the deliberations of the British War Cabinet, and that there is no representative of Australia or of any other dominion who to-day is entitled to take part in those deliberations. We do not seek to get this representation six or twelve months hence. That would be of no use to us at all. The points on which we desire our voice to be heard are current matters, in which conditions and circumstances are changing from day to day. They are matters which are vital to the safety and future of this country. That being so, it seems to me to be thoroughly impractical to suggest that we should not send the only person who could make his voice heard there, but that we should engage in a long and, for all we know, unsuccessful effort to bring about an alteration of the constitution of the British 
War Cabinet which would enable us to have somebody other than the Prime Minister there. Why? Partly to satisfy some fetish that the place for the Prime Minister is in Australia. Why in the name of goodness must we tie the activities of the Prime Minister to the continent of Australia? 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

It is some time since I have heard so much bitterness from honorable senators opposite as has been evidenced in the" course of this debate. What has come over the Government's supporters to stir them to this great depth is beyond my comprehension. The Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  returned to the old form which he displayed eighteen months ago. Something apparently got under his skin and stirred a spirit which has long been dormant. The Minister was followed by  Senator A.  J. McLachlan who referred to the chirping of the sparrows while at the same time he roared like a lion let loose from a cage. He told us of the great dangers with which Australia was faced and that the invader was almost upon us. He told us of the vast ability and genius of the Prime Minister, whom he declared was the only man in Australia capable of voicing the opinions of the Australian people in Great Britain. In the midst of grave dangers, with war right at our door, he considers that this great genius in our midst should desert Australia and go to England. 
Three years ago, on the 30th June last, I sang what I thought was my swan-song in this chamber. I little thought then that I should again have the honour and privilege of entering this chamber as an Australian senator. I do  not  suppose  that  any honorable senator remembers what I then said. 
'Owing to the fact that the voting was fairly evenly balanced at the elections last year, the stocks of the Menzies Government have fallen. The failure of the Government to do many things which the people expected of it has resulted in strong criticism of it by the people. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  and his Ministers in this chamber have prated about what the Government intended to do in the direction of providing for the defence of this country, but two years have elapsed since the war began, and practically nothing has been done. We have heard a good deal about the production of munitions, aeroplanes, ships and tanks, but what production has taken place? We are told that the position in the Pacific to-day is very serious. We are also informed as to what Wirraways, Beaufort bombers and other aeroplanes that have been constructed in Australia are capable of doing. Although aerodromes have been established, and munition factories and other works of a military nature have been built, has anything been done in the direction of providing the anti-aircraft guns necessary for the protection of the ' people ? I read in a newspaper that, in the city of Plymouth, the morning after a heavy bombing raid had occurred, there was a parade of air raid precautions workers in a street in which all the houses had been destroyed. Following the procession was the King of England, who offered words of sympathy to a lady who was standing on her doorstep, and told her that the air raid precautions workers would assist her and that the increased production of aeroplanes would prevent similar raids by German airmen. The lady replied to  His  Majesty : " Provide us with anti-aircraft guns and that will prevent the Germans from coming here". According to the press report, the King said : " Yes ", and soon afterwards anti-aircraft guns were placed in position. This action was taken because the King realized the needs of his people, and I urge that similar action be taken in this country to protect the people of Australia. 
The international situation was serious when the announcement was made that the desire of the United Australia party, the Country party and the press of Australia was that the Prime Minister should be sent to Great Britain. The position is still very serious, but not so serious as  Senator Sampson  would have us believe. The honorable senator, during his speech, apparently imagined that he was addressing a recruiting meeting. If he was preaching in this chamber for the purpose of securing the support of the members of his own party, and inducing them to do something for the defence of Australia, he can have no conflict with the Australian Labour party. As he said that capital ships were required, I remind him that the Royal Australian Navy that played an admirable part in the last war was established by the Australian Labour party. Did the honorable senator protest against the sinking of the old warship,  Australia?  Having lost caste with the members of his own party and with the people of this country, the Prime Minister has apparently decided that he might he able to rehabilitate himself by going to London. I point out, however, that when he was last in London, and sat in the British War Cabinet in the very heart of the Empire, he made no protest against the Australians being sent to Greece after having fought a desert battle from Egypt to Benghazi. Those gallant men, after strenuous desert fighting, were brought back to Alexandria and transhipped to Greece without proper equipment. There, our Australian boys cried: "My God for aeroplanes". As one who took part in the last war, and constantly used a hand-grenade, which was a major weapon on that occasion, I can understand die plight of the Australians in being short of proper equipment. With the changes in the technique of war, the demand is now for aeroplanes, tanks, tommy-guns,  bren-guns  and brengun carriers. 

 Senator Sampson, who is a recruiting officer, urges our young men to go to the present war, but he must know that his words will fall on deaf ears, because our troops have been ill-equipped. Many Australians who escaped with their lives from the campaign in Greece were able to save themselves only because they were powerful swimmers. Some of them reached ships, and sometimes those vessels were torpedoed or bombed. Others reached the Island of Crete, but even there our troops were still without proper equipment. "My God for a tommygun", they cried. This was not the cry of a political party, or even of military officers, but it came from the boys on the field. They said that there was only one tommy-gun to five soldiers. Even at that time, the Prime Minister was still in London. When the Germans chased our troops out of Crete, they were again forced to swim in an attempt to escape with their lives. They were forced to evacuate the island as fast as they could. They had no dive-bombers,  bren-guns or tommy-guns. Some who were fortunate enough to be picked up by passing vessel* reached Alexandria. Our fighting forces are men of worth. They are prepared, if necessary, to give their lives, but they are not concerned about that. They are concerned only about what is happening at home. I remember that in the last war, we were not very much concerned with what was going to happen to us. We were in the front line, but that did not matter. We were concerned only with what was happening at home. On the home front to-day we have the Prime Minister, and what has he done for our soldiers ? Some time ago we "were told that we could not prevent even one modern fighting division from entering this country, but nothing has been done since. Eighteen months ago we were told that our munition industry had to be built up, but what has been done? A man came to me nearly two years ago and said that he could build tanks. He proved that he could do the job, but still no tanks are being built in this country. There is much talk to-day of the cost-plus system, but the only effect of that system is to make the rich richer. In some organizations operating under the cost-plus system men sleep for ten hours a day and are paid for twenty. The greater the cost, the greater the profit. The workers do not want that system. Many years ago, when there was not a war on, the cost-plus system was used in the building of the New South Wales State Savings Bank, and the men employed were disgusted with what went on. Unless the Prime Minister can show us that his Government is prepared to do something for Australia, he should not be permitted to go to London as the Australian Prime Minister.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that he had no desire to see the Australian people trammelled, but I wonder if the presence in London of the Prime Minister would prevent the Australian people from being trammelled; I wonder if the Australian people would be in a better position if any member of the Government went to London. The great Australian Labour party has determined that the place for the Australian Prime Minister is in Australia, attending to the grave international situation which is supposed to exist. I say that whether the Prime Minister be  Mr. Menzies  or  Mr. Curtin,  if the position in the Pacific is so serious as is alleged, his place is in Australia, and not gallivanting around London being dined and wined by the powers that be. 
I desire to bring to the notice of the Government the delay that has occurred in releasing the report of the Western Australian War Industries Committee which sat in Western Australia and Canberra several months ago. We have been told that this influential committee presented a very valuable report. Small portions of it have been disclosed from time to time. I understand that the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  was  chairman,  that  Mr. Curtin  was a member and, that when he was called away to the eastern States, you,  Mr. President,  acted in his place for several weeks. We know that the committee did very valuable work. The people of Western Australia have already been able to see some of the good results that have accrued from its labours. One of them was mentioned to-day by the Minister for Munitions  ('Senator McBride)  when he said that the Government had decided to more than double the size of the new munition works to be built at Welshpool in the metropolitan area of Perth, and that further extensions were also under review. As the people of Western. Australia are anxious to know exactly what is contained in the report, I trust that it will be released at an early date. 
 in reply  - The remarks of the honorable senator will be brought to the notice of the ' Prime Minister. I understand that there are certain questions upon which  the  report of the Western Australian War Industries Committee has a bearing which are still under consideration and which may perhaps prevent its early release. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

Has the Minister for Supply and Development any comment to make on  the statement published in several sections of the press to the effect that from one ton of copra, costing about £4, 100 gallons of second-grade motor spirit could be produced, and that this spirit would be quite useful when mixed with petrol? 
For some years the Government's technical advisers have been examining the possibility of manufacturing substitutes for petrol, but in the reports that I have had up to the present, the use of copra has not been recommended. It has been suggested that molasses, sugar and wheat are the most suitable products for the manufacture of power alcohol, but I have asked the technical officers to consider the possibility of obtaining power alcohol from copra, and to make inquiries whether it would be worth while developing such a proposal with the object of increasing the supply of much-needed motor spirit. 
Can the Minister for Supply and Development inform me whether thedistillery to be erected in Western Australia for the production of power alcohol from wheat will be located in a country town in or associated with the wheat-growing districts of that State? 
Can the Minister for Repatriation now furnish me with an answer to the question that I raised on the adjournment of the Senate on the 2nd July last regarding the case of Harold F. Brockley, a member of the Australian Imperial Force, who was killed in Egypt while absent without leave ? 
When the honorable senator mentioned this matter previously, I told him that the circumstances of the case were such that questions of both law and fact had to be considered. The case is still under consideration, because there are some important features connected with it. These must be carefully investigated before definite action can be taken. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.10 a.m. to 3.35 p.m. 

This morning  Senator Fraser  addressed the following question,  upon notice,  to the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce : - 
On what date previous to the outbreak of war were plans made to acquire the 1938-39 wheat crop, and what was the personnel of the Australian Wheat Board at the timet 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer : - 
The Australian Wheat Board did not exist prior to the outbreak of war, and no plans to acquire wheat were made prior to the outbreak of war. 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Air to a matter of the utmost gravity to  the  members of the Royal Australian Air Force who are undergoing training at the Richmond aerodrome. The condition of affairs of which I complain is due  to the  treatment received by the men from the officer in charge of the aerodrome. This officer, whose name is Wilson, has recently received a promotion, possibly because of the defects of his administration. Owing to the treatment received by the airmen employed there they decided to have a one-day sit-down strike on the 11th August. This matter came to my knowledge through a private individual who, when taking a morning stroll past the aerodrome, heard the commanding officer requesting the personnel at the aerodrome not  to  hold the proposed strike, because the fact might reach the ears of the enemy and be used as propaganda, which would help to undermine Australia's war effort. The men decided to strike because they had been granted shorter periods of leave than had been given to the personnel  at  other aerodromes. The personnel of the Richmond aerodrome were getting four days' leave a month, whilst at other training centres, five and six days' leave were allowed. The Air Board issued an instruction from Melbourne that the men at Richmond were to have four days' leave, and later this was increased to five days. The commanding officer then decided that the men should be given two and a half days' leave each fortnight. During the first fortnight, this arrangement was adhered to, but because some of the men desired to catch a particular train to enable them to get the benefit of their leave, their autocratic commanding officer cancelled the whole of their leave. I understand that he has since been promoted to the Central Area Command in New South Wales. If he is still adopting the same Hitler-like tactics there as he did at Richmond, he will cause considerable dissatisfaction among members of the air force. When the personnel ceased work on a recent occasion, rain was falling. The practice of the men, at the end of each day's training, is to wash their hands and parade in order to go to the mess. Owing to the fact that the men were hurrying to escape the rain, he marched thom backwards and forwards three or four times in the rain, and as recently as last Friday evening, this treatment was repeated, merely because they endeavoured to avoid the rain. 
I have also ascertained that when the men leave camp to catch a train at the Clarendon station, they have orders that they must not board the train from the railway platform. They have to climb into the carriages from, the end of the platform which is reserved for officers whose rank is above that of flightsergeant. The platform is at a long siding which is used for race trains. Two or three hundred yards away from the station there is a militia camp, and all of the militia-men are permitted to ascend the platform and wait for the train, but the air force personnel are noi allowed to do so because a " Brass Hat " named Wilson has so decreed. This state of affairs at the Richmond aerodrome cannot be permitted to continue. I urge the Government to take steps to see that the new commanding officer does not act in this autocratic manner towards the airmen. Harmony at this training centre should be restored. There is a stupid regulation which prevents a member of the Defence Forces from presenting complaints to members of this Parliament, and I suggest that conduct of that kind resembles what might be expected from Hitler. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for Air will immediately bring this matter under the notice of the Government, so that the war effort may not be impaired by irritating tactics such as those to which I have referred. 
On the 9th July, last, I addressed the following questions to the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay)  :  - 
Is it a fact- 
that the great International  Aluminium Combine known in 
America as Alcoa has been indicted by the Government of America(or subversive action in that by keeping the production of aluminium low and the profits high it has prevented aluminium from being made in adequate quantities for munitions of war? 
that some of the directors are now released on bail pending further hearings? and 
that  Mr. Ickes,  on behalf of the Roosevelt Administration has declared that Alcoa was the most perfect monopoly ever devised by man? 
If so, will the Minister ask the Commonwealth representative in America to furnish immediately particulars of this indictment and a summary of the evidence for the information of the Government? 
Is it a fact that the Aluminium Company of Canada, which is a subsidiary of Alcoa, is one of the principal shareholders of the Australian Aluminium Company? 
If so, will the Government take steps to prevent the great International Aluminium Trust either directly or through its subsidiaries from obtaining a stranglehold on the infant Australian aluminium industry? 
The replies which were posted to me when the Senate was not in session, are as follows :  - 
It is general  ly known  that investigations are being made in America concerning the company mentioned, and that such references to the investigations have recently been published in the press. 
Yes. 
I understand that the Aluminium Union of Canada holds one-third of the shares in the Australian Aluminium Company. 
Yes. 
Referring  to  the second question, I should like the Minister to inform the Senate whether he has been able to ascertain from the Commonwealth representative in the United States of America any further information on this matter. If he has, will he enlighten the Senate as to its nature? I have a considerable quantity of information in my possession regarding the history of the international aluminium combine known in America as Alcoa, but I do not desire to use it in advance of any particulars which the Minister may be able to furnish. If he has not yet obtained such information, I shall reserve, for the present, the details in my possession as to how the Australian Aluminium Company is interwoven with the great aluminium trust of America, which, until quite recently, was supplying every nation, whether friend or foe, with aluminium. 
.- On the 25th June, I brought before the Senate the inconvenience and loss sustained by some universal trainees when called up to undergo a preliminary medical examination prior to entering militia camps. I referred particularly to lads in outback districts who lose a day's pay or portion of a day's pay and incur expenses in travelling to the nearest centre at which medical examinations take place. These lads are at a disadvantage compared with other young men who live in the vicinity of the depots where the examinations are conducted. The matter was referred to head-quarters in Western Australia, and I interviewed Colonel Hoad regarding it. I hope that the Minister representing the Minister for the Army will look into it and let me have a reply at an early date, as many representations have been made to me on the subject. To say the least, there has been considerable delay in announcing the policy of the Government in this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Six months ago the Minister for Supply and Development informed the Senate that Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited would be producing magnesium about the middle of this year. Can the Minister now inform the Senate how much magnesium, if any, has been produced? If none has been produced, has any factory,machinery, or other equipment been installed for its production? If not, have any plans been made by Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited or the Government for the production of magnesium in Australia ? 
Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited has a plant in operation, and it has produced magnesium. I shall ascertain the quantity produced, and shall supply the information to the honorable senator. 
It was produced by means of an industrial plant of a substantial capacity. 
Will the Minister for Information inform the Senate whether, during his visit to Bali and Singapore, he found that the flavour of peanuts was improved when eaten from agold plate? 
The question is a stupid one. 
I recently asked the Leader of the Senate if he could supply the names of those persons whose services were being used by the Commonwealth Government, but whose remunerations were not wholly paid by it. As the information is not yet to hand, I should like to know if the Minister intends to supply an answer to my question. 
The matter has been referred to the Prime Minister's Department, and I shall ascertain whether the department proposes to supply an answer. I understand that the reply formerly given was that the information would be supplied as soon as possible. An enormous volume of work is entailed by inquiries of this kind, and I dare say the department is putting first things first. 
Will you,  Mr. President,  examine the method by which pairs are listed in the  Hansard  reports of the proceedings in this chamber? On a number of occasions I have given a pair, but the fact that I have paired has not been shown in the  Hansard  record. On one occasion my name did not appear either in the division list or the list of pairs. 
I shall have inquiries made, and the honorable senator will be furnished with a reply later. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer obtain the information sought by me recently regarding the Commonwealth conversion loan that was floated on the London market on the 21st June last? I asked to be informed as to the conversion costs, and why the loan was issued at £99 instead of at £100. 
The information is not yet to hand, but I shall make inquiries regarding the matter, and endeavour to obtain an answer for the honorable senator. 
asked the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
What amount, if any, does the press of Australia pay to the Department of Information for the privilege of publishing photographs supplied by the Department? 
What amount, if any, do Australian commercial B class broadcasting stations pay to the Department of Information for the privilege of broadcasting material supplied by the department? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The newspapers of Australia do not pay the Department of Information for the privilege of publishing photographs supplied by the department. 
The Australian commercial B class broad- . casting stations do not pay the Department of Information for the privilege of broadcasting material supplied by the department. 
I desire to add that the department regards the publication of these photographs to be of great value as propaganda, and as a means of disseminating information. The B class radio stations also are assisting the war effort considerably by arranging for free broadcasts in favour of recruiting, the value of which cannot be assessed in terms of money. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What was the price paid for firewood delivered duringDecember, 1940, and January and February, 1941, to military camps at South Head, Mosman, North Head, Showground, and other places within a 15-miles radius of Macquarie-place, Sydney. 
What is the present contract price for firewood delivered at the above camps? 
What is the present price paid for firewood delivered to the following defence camps: - Walgrove, Ingleburn, Liverpool, Holdsworthy, Narellan, Richmond, and Bankstown, all in New South Wales? 
Is the price paid for firewood delivered to military camps based on the cost-plus system of costing? 
If the answer to No. 4 is in the affirmative, what are the sectional costs paid in respect of royalty, cutters, bush to mill, sawyers, and delivery to eachindividual camp? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
At South Head, Mosman and North Head prices for December, 1940, and January and February, 1941, were constant at 35s. a ton. At the Showground 26s. for December, 1940, and 23s. for January and February, 1941. 
All places, 30s. 
Walgrove 26s. 6d., Ingleburn, Liverpool, Holdsworthy, and Narellan 21s. The contract for Richmond was at the rate of 20s. until April when it expired. Since the date of expiration, firewood has been purchased under local authority on the open market at prices varying between 20s. and 24s. a ton. Bankstown, 28s.0d. 
No. 
See 4. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Has any regulation been made abolishing exemptions allowed over and above a wife and one child for income tax purposes? 
If not, who instructed the Commissioner of Taxation to circularize taxpayers to the effect that the only family deductions allowed are for a wife and one child; and under whose authority were such instructions issued? 
If the reply to No. 1 is in the affirmative, is it not a grave injustice to the taxpayers to disallow such deductions on last year's return, seeing that child endowment was not in operation in 1940-41? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers - 
No such regulation has been made. 
The Commissioner of Taxation did not so circularize taxpayers. The Treasury Department, however, has circularized all paying officers in the Commonwealth Public Service to limit the concessional deductions to the wife and one child when calculating the instalment deduction to be made for purposes of the Commonwealth Public Service group scheme. It has been done with the Treasurer's authority. Pending an amendment of the law, however, deductions for all dependent children will be allowed in any actual assessments which may be made. 
The approval set out in No. 2 does not do any grave injustice to any taxpayer having regard to the group scheme of instalment deductions. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
With reference to the proposed second telephone wire between Perth and Port Augusta, which has been approved, when will the extra wire be installed? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answer :  - 
It is not possible to indicate at present when the installation of additional telephone and telegraph channels between Adelaide and Perth can be undertaken for the reason that the War Cabinet in authorizing the project as a defence measure stipulated that the work could be carried out only if it did not interfere with or delay more important defence communication requirements which must be given priority in respect of supplies of essential materials. The position regarding the supply of materials for the Adelaide-Perth proposal is now being examined and the honorable senator may rest assured that the work will bo proceeded with at the earliest possible moment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
What provision is made for an airman of the Royal Australian Air Force who has given up his occupation, passed the necessary training and, while stationed at Canberra, has developed goitre, thus becoming medically unfit for service in any military capacity? 
If such a person is rejected by the Repatriation Department on the grounds of his disability not having been contracted on war service, what action is taken by the Government to rehabilitate such a case  in  civil life? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers :  - 
If his service was wholly  in  Australia, even though enlisted for service at home or abroad,  it  would be necessary before there is any responsibility under the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act for the disability to be regarded as directly attributable to his employment as a member of the Forces, but if he served for at leastsix months, and the conditions of his war service contributed  in  any material degree to his incapacity (provided the disability was not due to his default or wilful act), responsibility may be accepted by the Repatriation Commission for treatment or war pension. 
Provision exists for assistance to obtain employment and for the payment of sustenance for members who have served overseas with satisfactory record and the Government is now considering the scope and nature of assistance in placement and training of other discharged members of the Forces. 
On the 21st August,  Senator Lamp  asked when volume No. 6 of the  Official History of Australia in the War of  1914-1918 would be published. 
The following reply has been furnished by the Minister for the Army: - 
The delay in the production of the final volume of the Australian official history of the last war has been largely due to the fact that the official historian was for some months employed by the Government on important work connected with the present war. He is, however, now completing the last chapter of the volume, most of which is already in the hands of the printer, and  it  is anticipated that the book will be published in December. For the information of the honorable senator it should perhaps be mentioned that the Australian . official history is, in comparison with histories of similar scope and quality, the most advanced of those of the belligerent nations of the last war. 
Some time ago  Senator Darcy  asked the following questions - 
What were total conversion  costs  in  connexion  with the Australian loan in June last? 
Why was this loan converted at 99 instead of at par? 
How much was taken up by the British Government? 
Why was the interest rate raised to 4 per cent. ? 
The Treasurer has furnished the following replies: - 
As the operation has only just been concluded, having been spread over the last few months, information regarding cost of  conversion  is not yet available. 
The decision to issue the conversion loan at a discount of 1 per cent. was made on the advice of the British Government and the Commonwealth's financial advisers in London, having regard to market prices of similar securities. 
In a normal conversion loan new cash is sought to pay off those holders who do not convert. In view of the special nature of this transaction, new cash was not asked for, but the British Government has agreed to lend the Commonwealth the money required to redeem the securities of those holders who do not convert. The amount involved will be approximately £6,000,000. 
The interest rate on the new loan is 3½, per cent. The interest rates on the loans converted were 4¾ per cent. and5 per cent. 
Some months ago the Government made a pronouncement that a military road was to be constructed from Port Augusta to Norseman to connect the eastern States with Western Australia. That pronouncement was received with a good deal of pleasure. I understand that some progress has already been made with this work, but I recall that other main roads required for military purposes, notably the one connecting Port Darwin with the south were very rapidly completed and progress reports were issued from time to time giving details of the work. 1 trust that the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  will arrange for this important main military road to the western State to be constructed with the same expedition as was shown by his officers in connexion with other main military roads. I shall be pleased if the Minister will report to the Senate as to the progress being made with this work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Honorable senators will have read with regret of the tragic death yesterday of ex-Senator Charles Hardy, . who lost his life in an aeroplane accident in northern Queensland. At the time of his death he was engaged in defence work. The late  Mr. Hardy  was elected to the Senate, as a representative of New South Wales, at the general elections in 1931, and was a senator from 1932 to 1938. He was leader of the Country party in the Senate from October, 1935, to the 30th June, 1938. He enlisted for service in the Australian Imperial Force in 1917, and embarked for overseas with the 1st Field Company Engineers in June of that year. He was wounded in action and was also gassed, and he returned to Australia in 1919. The late  Mr. Hardy  will be well remembered by many members of this chamber, and I am sure that we all have a deep sense of sorrow at his untimely passing. On behalf of the Senate I extend to his widow find family our deepest sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the tragic death of former  Senator Charles  Hardy, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I am sure that no recent news has been received so sadly by members of the Senate as that which came through yesterday afternoon that ex-Senator Charles Hardy had met  his  death as the result of an aeroplane  Accident  in northern Queensland. Most members of this chamber knew the late  Mr. Hardy  very well. Many of his characteristics were admirable, particularly his conduct in the Senate. He was young, strong, and energetic, both physically and mentally. He never spoke on any important subject in this chamber unless he had fully prepared himself for the work. Whilst I and other members of the Opposition did not share his political outlook, we admired his courage and capacity, and his thoroughness in all that he did in connexion with his parliamentary duties. He had had a distinguished career, although only a comparatively short portion of his life had been devoted to parliamentary activities. Probably very few men of his age had experienced so much adversity as had the  late  Mr. Hardy,  but whether he was faced with temporary ill health, adversity in business ventures or ill fortune in the political sphere, he always had a smile, and he met his friends and acquaintances with a hearty handshake and a cheery word. I recall with great pleasure my experiences with him in this Senate. When matters were not so easy with the Opposition as they have been during recent years owing to its increased strength the late  Mr. Hardy  would come into this chamber with a sheaf of notes that he had prepared, and, while checking them over, he would smile across the chamber at me. Despite the fact that we were in different political camps we were close friends. It was impossible to be other than friendly with Charlie Hardy, and, when I received the news of his death, I was deeply grieved. When the word passed around the parliamentary lobbies that he had met with an untimely death, every one of us was greatly shocked. When an old man dies one feels that the inevitable has arrived, but when a man in the prime of life passes, while serving his country and discharging duties which he had undertaken voluntarily, one is particularly sad. 
The late  Mr. Hardy  loved Australia and was a true patriot. We extend our sympathy to his widow and children, whom he loved, and of whom he was very proud. Every member of the Opposition joins with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  in expressing his sympathy with the widow and family. Severe as the blow is, we hope that it will be tempered by the knowledge that those who were closely associated politically with the late  Mr. Hardy  appreciated his worth and feel his death deeply. 
I desire to associate the members of the Country party in the Senate with this motion of condolence. We all have very pleasant memories of the late ex-Senator Charles Hardy during the period when he was a representative of New South Wales in this chamber. The news of his death yesterday came as a great blow to us, but it was comforting to hear that he had died in the service of his country. He will be well remembered in this chamber as a man of strong personality, a forceful  speaker,  and a great fighter. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  expressed one of his outstanding characteristics perfectly when he said that Charlie Hardy was always well prepared when he spoke in the Senate. I was personally associated with the honorable gentleman when he was Leader of the Country party in the Senate, and I know well the great amount of time that was occupied by him in preparing for the speeches which he made in this chamber. The passing of a man of his experience and untiring energy, both physically and mentally, is a great loss to Australia, especially at such a critical time as the present. On behalf of the members of the Country party in the Senate, I express deep sympathy with his widow and family in their great sorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Is the Leader of the Senate aware that last Sunday night the Minister for Information indulged in political propaganda when he made a speech on his trip to the Netherlands East Indies which was broadcast over the national stations? 
I am aware that my colleague broadcast a speech on Sunday night, and I was proud to hear it spoken of as an excellent speech designed to lead to closer relations between Australia and the Netherlands East Indies. 
The Minister has already answered the question in his own way. 
Is the Minister for Aircraft Production in a position to say when the first Australianmade Bristol Beaufort bomber will be produced in Australia? 
I thought that the honorable senator would have known that the firstBristol Beaufort bomber produced in Australia has been flying for about two months. A second machine of the same type is also already in the air. 
That machine is already in the air. 
Was the machine made in Australia, or was it only assembled here? 
Yesterday,  Senator Keane  asked a question relating to pairs, and I undertook to furnish an answer. I now inform the honorable senator that the Senate does not take cognizance of pairs, and that any inquiry on the subject should be addressed personally to the party Whip. 
The Minister for Health has supplied the following answers :  - 
No service of this kind is provided. 
The matter will be discussed with the Minister for the Interior. 
I desire to add that if the honorable senator will let me know of any particular district in which he thinks that the Commonwealth railways should provide a. travelling baby health train, my interview with the Minister for the Interior will be facilitated. 
.- My remarks on this bill will be exceedingly brief. It was my intention to take advantage of the opportunity afforded to honorable senators when a bill of this nature is before them to discuss many matters which I regard as of importance, but as Supply is being asked for only a short period, I have decided that this is not the appropriate occasion to deal with them. We have had an advance copy of the second-reading speech to be delivered by the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  on this bill, and also a copy of the measure in which the amounts to be provided for each department are set out. It is essential that the Government should have Supply and as the period for which Supply was previously granted is almost exhausted, it is desirable that this bill should be passed by the Senate without delay in order that payments to public servants, pensioners and others may not be held up. As an opportunity will shortly be afforded to us to deal with the budget, and to say the things which we feel should be said, I shall defer my further remarks until a later date. 
.The last paragraph of the second-reading speech to be delivered by the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  reads as follows :  - 
Except in the case of defence and war services, no provision is made in the bill for any new expenditure, and no departure from existing policy is involved. 
The members of the Labour party in this chamber realize that the Government must have the money asked for in this bill in order to enable it to carry on until the budget is passed. I take this opportunity, one of the few afforded to us, to raise one or two important matters. I should like the Government to inquire into an incident that happened on the  Spirit of Progress  train on Tuesday last. At about 8.45 p.m., a soldier who had been invalided home from the Middle East, went to the dining car for a meal. He was asked by the attendant if he had a warrant for the meal. He replied that he had, and he was served with a meal, the cost of which was 5s. When he produced his authorization from the department, it read " Supply Melbourne to Brisbane,1s. 3d.". The unfortunate soldier was placed in an awkward position. Naturally, because of his ignorance of the procedure, he blamed the railway staff for the trouble that ensued. For an invalided soldier to be provided with such a warrant for meals between Melbourne and Brisbane shows that a shocking blunder had been made or that somebody had badly fallen down on his job. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Senator Foll)  to look into this matter. 
I propose now to direct your attention,  Mr. President,  to a small matter which, I think, comes partly under your jurisdiction as a member of the Joint House Committee. The men working in the lavatories in this building have been instructed by the housekeeper that they must refrain from smoking whilst engaged in that work. In the interests of their health, smoking should be allowed whilst they are working in the lavatories, particularly at a time such as this when highly contagions colds are so prevalent. 
About eighteen months ago, a man named  Mr. D.  A. Craig, of Sydney, made an application to the Capital Issues Advisory Board for the right to form a company to import crude oil into Australia with the object of converting it into petrol, fuel oil and bitumen. The claim made by  Mr. Craig  was that, if approval were given for the raising of the necessary capital, the proposed company could produce 20,000,000 gallons of petrol, 10,000,000 gallons of crude oil and 70,000 tons of bitumen per annum. The application was held up by theCapital Issues Advisory Board because of some objection in relation to certain preference shares. After many months, the matter was referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report as to the economic aspects of the industry. That inquiry has since been held, but no effect has been given to the recommendations of the board and the application has been referred back to the Capital Issues 
Advisory Board.  Mr. Craig  has been informed that the application will be considered by the full board on Monday next. Practically every Minister who may have some control of this matter has been interviewed by  Mr. Craig  and his associates, and I, myself, have done what I could to have the application granted. We have even gone so far as to see the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies),  but without avail. The final objection raised is that  Mr. Craig  cannot get tankers to transport the crude oil from the United States of America to Australia. On two occasions,  Mr. Craig  made arrangements for the supply of crude oil and the chartering of the necessary tankers, but the arrangements had to be cancelled because the Capital Issues Advisory Board had. not authorized the raising of the capital required to float the company. Obviously, if authorization be not given  Mr. Craig  cannot get the tankers, the crude oil, or anything else. He and his associates are not asking the Government for financial assistance; they represent a financially sound group and have done big business in this country. In view of the shortage of petrol and fuel oil in Australia, surely this matter should be expedited. My dealings with the Capital Issues Advisory Board in respect of other matters have been highly successful, but in respect of this application I have been greatly disappointed. If approval be given for the raising of the necessary capital to start this venture in Australia, an important industry will be established here and it is probable that the company will engage in the extraction of crude oil from shale obtained from the deposits in Tasmania and New South Wales. I do not suggest for one moment that the oil companies have exerted an influence in this matter. But the handling of this application by government officials and boards has hardly been fair. I have personally interviewed every Minister who has had anything to do with the matter. The Minister for Supply and Development  (.Senator McLeay)  and the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  were helpful, but, apparently, their help has been of no avail.  Mr. Craig  visited Canberra last Thursday and interviewed the Prime Minister, but owing to recent political happenings, the latter was precluded from giving to the matter the careful attention it deserves. 
But this man must first have a decision from the board. The Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  has indicated that he will not interfere with the board at all. The hearing of this application by the board is now set down for next Monday, but it has already taken nineteen months to deal -with it. I realize that the Capital Issues Advisory Board is an essential authority in time of war, and that that body is doing an excellent job. However, due to the changes of Ministers this matter has not yet been finalized. The Tariff Board approved the scheme. Ordinarily, the Government carries out the recommendations of that board, but in this case it has not done so. The matter has now to be referred back to the Capital Issues Advisory Board. The delay which has taken place does not reflect credit upon the administrative authorities concerned. Quite a lot of people suggest that there is some mystery at the bottom of the matter; hut I do not agree with that view. This man's connexions, and ako his claim to be in touch with certain interests overseas, can easily be checked up. However, unless he has the authority of the Government to proceed with the venture, he cannot possibly secure supplies of oil from the United States of America. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  asked a question on this subject recently and was told that the matter was under consideration. It has been under consideration for nineteen months. This delay has involved  Mr. Craig  and the interests associated with him in an expenditure of up to £15,000. He hae visited the United States of America on two occasions and has ordered supplies of oil, but has been obliged to cancel the orders. 
I trust that Parliament will be given an early opportunity to discuss the budget, and that the arrangement sought by the Opposition will be strictly observed. I hope that we shall have an opportunity to analyse the finances  of the Commonwealth. When  Mr. Theodore  was Treasurer  in  the Scullin Government he circulated with the budget an explanatory note which enabled members generally to study the Government's proposals intelligently. I suggest that that practice might be followed by this Government when it brings down its budget in the near future. It would certainly tend to shorten debate. 
 I take this opportunity to emphasize the inconvenience caused to Western Australian senators and members owingto the inadequate accommodation provided at the federal members' rooms at Perth. That accommodation compares very unfavorably with the facilities provided formembers in each of the other capital cities. It is so restricted that there is only one room to four members. In such circumstances it is most difficult to carry on interviews satisfactorily with members of the. public. Neither the members themselves, nor any individual who seeks an interview with  a  member, can do their business properly. I urge the Government to improve the accommodation at the federal members' rooms in that city. 
In the present burly-burly of party politics and at  a  time when we are engaged  in  a struggle against totalitarianism, it  is  with diffidence that one speaks to a measure of this kind. However, I gave a promise to  a  number of blind workers in Brisbane that I would present a ease to the Senate setting out their difficult economic position. Owing to the fact that our friends opposite are in the. throes of internecine political warfare, possibly not much good will result from my representations at this juncture. 
I assure honorable senators opposite that our party was most united at its meeting this morning, and that all of my colleagues are convinced that when the Government parties, owing to their present quarrels, are compelled to relinquish office, the Labour party will be ready and able as a united party to carry on the government. 
I admit that. However, I urge the United Australia party and the Country party to cease their quarrelling, and to get on with the business of the country. The Labour party cannot be blamed for the Government's difficulty, because this party has given its wholehearted support to the present Administration in its prosecution of the war effort. Not only has it approved all of the Government's war appropriations, but it has also appointed members to the various parliamentary joint committees, and has provided its best brains on the Advisory War Council. At a time when the country needs strong, enthusiastic and efficient government the Government parties should cease their petty quarrelling. If they did so we should not be witnessing the party intrigues which are now going on. I do not indulge in personalities; I believe that most honorable senators opposite are anxious to see this country united in the present crisis. I do not believe that any individual honorable senator opposite has taken partin those intrigues. Particularly in times of stress, there are certain enemies of democracy who are ever-ready to point the finger of scorn at parliamentary government, and for that reason any government should be very careful in its actions. I do not wish to detain the Senate at length at this stage, but in themidst of the existing political intrigue we should not be unmindful of those who are suffering the terrible infliction of blindness. These people have not much voice in the affairs of this country and, for that reason, they do not make much impression on governing bodies. If an organization is economically strong, like the Broken Hill ProprietaryCompany Limited, it has a tremendous influence in the affairs of a country. Similarly, if a body can control many thousands of votes, it also is a force to be reckoned with. Unfortunately, the blind have neither of these advantages. Their voice is weak, and too frequently it is ignored  by officials and by the Government. Consequently, there is a tendency to forget them. 
There are many persons in the community who are suffering from grave disabilities, but whose ailments have not reached a stage which renders them totally and permanently incapacitated. I have been approached on several occasions in regard to this matter. In one case a resident of Goondiwindi was refused a pension because he was not regarded as totally and permanently incapacitated. Officials are unable to grant pensions to many invalids because they are still able to do some work. I recall one case very well: A friend of mine suffering from tuberculosis could not walk 10 yards without spitting blood, and it took him a quarter of an hour to walk 50 yards from the tram to my office. I made strong representations to the department, but I was informed that nothing could be clone for him because he could sit on, say, a verandah and make articles of some description. He was in possession of all his faculties. Regardless of the political party in power, it is the duty of the 
Government to amend the legislation to provide some assistance for those who, although not totally disabled, are unable to work. 
Blind people have always urged - and rightly so - that they should receive the pension as a right, regardless of their earnings. We have a precedent for that in the Commonwealth child endowment legislation, under which payments are made to mothers regardless of earnings. Similarly, a soldier's pension has no limitation in the matter of earnings. That is right, and the same privilege should be extended to industrial soldiers suffering from blindness. Of course, these people recognize that at this juncture they have not much chance to obtain that concession, but they do urge that their permissible income should be increased commensurate with the increase of the cost of living. At present a pensioner's income, including the pension, may be £4 9s. a week. That is to say, in addition to the pension of £1 ls. 6d. a week, he may earn £3 7s. 6d. a week. The permissible combined income of a husband and wife is £2 6s. a week, which, in addition to the pension of £1 ls. 6d. each, makes £4 9s. 
In other words, the thrifty are penalized. If a blind pensioner is anxious to improve his lot, say, by buying a house, as soon as his income, including the pension, exceeds £4 9s. a week, the pension is reduced. Obviously that is penalizing the thrifty.. Another restriction is that a pensioner may not have more than £50 in a bank. Pensioners are also prohibited from letting their house. That restriction is often a hardship, especially in the case of pensioners who wish to live nearer to their employment. As is the case with invalid and old-age pensioners, if a blind pensioner lets his house, the rent received is included in his income. I submit that a pensioner should be permitted to let his house without being penalized. Several amendments relating to permissible income have already been made to the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, a copy of which I have obtained from  Mr. Magee,  of the Pensions Department, but I do not propose to read them at this juncture. At present a number of people in Brisbane are having their pensions reduced, and I have here copies of notices of alteration sent out by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Pensions in that city, one of which intimates to a man and his wife that their pension has been reduced from 39s. 6d. to 33s. a week as from the 26th June last because of an increase of the husband's income. As there has been a considerable increase in the cost of living, the pensioners urge that there should be at least a corresponding increase in their permissible income. At a later date, I hope to go more fully into this subject. I have been supplied with all the facts relating to blind pensioners. Although the time may not be opportune to discuss details of this matter, I ask the Government to show some consideration for the disabilities and difficulties of blind workers upon whose shoulders a heavy burden is placed. 
I should like to make a few observations regarding the activities of the Government. Much political propaganda has been indulged in with regard to the calling up of the women's army. It is hard to understand why, when the Government continues to talk of its great war activity, there is any necessity for the formation of a women's army, since there is a large number of unemployed men throughout Australia. If it be necessary to call up women so that they may do the work of men, something should be done simultaneously to solve the problem of unemployment. Does the Government intend to put women to work in order to enable employers of labour to get jobs done more cheaply than at present? Although men are told that they can obtain jobs in the country if they are prepared to leave their homes, there are no public works of a major character to which they can go. It has often been said that the great Australian Labour party has done much to destroy home life, but I contend that the widespread employment of women in various avenues where men were formerly employed would inevitably have a detrimental effect upon the home life of the community. I am afraid that we shall see an army of women employed on trams, trains and buses, and that their services will also be widely utilized on farms. Their services are already being requisitioned in the wool industry, and they are to be employed in harvesting operations in the agricultural areas. I fear that the Government intends to distribute women workers throughout the country districts. In many instances, the wives of unemployed men are asked to proceed to outlying parts of Australia, but I claim that married women should not be induced to leave their homes in the cities in order to work in the country. If the plight of the farmers is desperate, and there is urgent necessity for farm labour, I suggest that members of the Militia could be sent to various districts at harvest time in order to assist the farmers to take off their crops. In Great Britain, this expedient has been resorted to, and in a short period the necessary harvest work has been accomplished. I do not suggest that this work should be done in Australia by members of the Militia Forces at the Army rate of pay. They should receive the basic wage while engaged in taking off the farmers' crops. The women do not know what they are being called up for, and the men fear that women will continue to hold men's jobs when the war is over. I am afraid that many men will have an experience similar to that of those who returned after the last war and were unable to find employment. 
The people of Sydney have to pay 4d. each for good apples although throughout the fruit-growing districts, apples are left rotting on the ground. The price of potatoes has been fixed at £16 a ton, but at Guyra, in New South Wales, the potato-growers have found it unprofitable to dig their crops. I happen to know a lady who paid men to dig potatoes, and although she had a good crop, the incidental expenses, such as the price of bags and the cost of carting and digging, were so great that she lost £150 on the transaction. In that district, hundreds of acres of potatoes have been left in the ground, although the price has been fixed at £16 a ton. 
I have read in the newspapers that it is the fixed price and only a temporary one. 
Under the National .Security Regulations, the Government has established an intelligence force, as a sort of police force. The head of the organization was formerly private secretary to  Sir Alfred  Davidson,  chairman  of directors of the Bank of New South Wales. Among others associated with the force are  Colonel Longfield  Lloyd, Captain Cohen and members of the staff of the Bank of New South Wales. Each State has a police force and a criminal investigation branch, whilst there is also a Commonwealth police force, and a Commonwealth Investigation Branch, in addition to Navy and Army intelligence services. Therefore, I see no necessity whatever for the formation of the latest force. When the public is aware of its establishment, I feel sure that many protests will be heard. This body is intended to stand over the Commonwealth and State police forces. If the police forces and the intelligence staffs already established have not sufficient ability to do the work required of them, they should be replaced, but we should not set up a Gestapo in Australia. 
When the Air Board decided to conduct a recruiting campaign and issued posters relating to the calling up df men required for the Air Force, it enlisted the services of men for a variety of tasks. Among others, it called up storemen, who were prepared to serve either in Australia or overseas, but many of these men now find themselves dumped in various depots in Australia. Much to their regret, a number of them are at the Waterloo Stores Depot, and they have had to do the work of wharf labourers. Paints have been dumped at the stores and the men have had to shift them to the wharfs. Althoughthese men enlisted for service in the Air Force, they now find themselves to be worse off than "Menzies' penguins ". 
Because they never fly. On Monday of this week a new order was promulgated. These boys are required to do guard duty, and it may happen that on three days a week they serve in that capacity from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m. and then continue working until 9.30 p.m. Those conditions are far inferior to those prescribed by the waterside workers' award. I do not know whether, in an attempt to get even cheaper labour, similar conditions will apply to women. I do not believe that honorable senators opposite stand for that sort of thing. It is a. matter which should be investigated, and the person responsible for it should be put out of the service. 
In carrying out its war effort Australia has found it necessary to place certain officers in control of the Army. We had as General Officer Commanding Eastern Command, Lieutenant-General Miles, but recently Major-General Wynter was brought back from the Middle East because of ill health. I regret the cause of his return, because I understand that he is an excellent officer. Major-General Wynter has been appointed General Officer Commanding Training Operations, Eastern Command. If he is well enough to be employed, his place isat the front. 
The position at the moment is that there are two men holding the position of General Officer Commanding, Eastern Command. 
Is not  Major General  Wynter, General Officer Commanding Training Operations, Eastern Command ? 
Then what does the other General Officer Commanding, Eastern Command, do? A man who occupies the position of General Officer Commanding Eastern Command should have the ability to carry out the duties of that office. 
The authorities have brought back to Australia Lieutenant-General Mackay who is to be General Officer Commanding Australia. That means that we shall have in New South Wales a General Officer Commanding Eastern Command ; a General Officer Commanding Training Operations, Eastern Command; and a General Officer Commanding, Australia. 
SenatorFoll. - Lieutenant-General Mackay will not confine his operations to New South Wales. 
The biggest part of his work will be in New South Wales. There are more men in military uniforms moving from place to place in Australia than are to be found in Great Britain. There are sufficient officers in Australia to control the whole of the British Expeditionary Force. 
The Minister knows that the authorities find difficulty in finding places for so many military officers. He may be interested to know that many of these men are not friendly towards the Government. I have heard people say that a man looks better in uniform than in civilian clothes, but there is no necessity to put every man who gallivants around Australia in uniform in order that he may look well dressed. I have no objection to the appointment of army generals, or other officers capable of training men as soldiers, provided that they are either medically unfit for active service or are over the age for service overseas. Apart from men within those categories, there should be no other  men in uniform in Australia. If some of these men were deprived of their uniforms there would he a different story to tell. I cannot see any reason why some men who have been able to secure jobs as clerks in, say, the District Finance Office, should be in uniform. Of course I realize that, being in uniform, they are entitled to be addressed as "  Major "  or  "Colonel" instead  of "Mister". But probably the worst thing that has happened is that Major-General " Bertie " Lloyd has been allowed to continue his activities. 
-. - He is also a very brilliant Fascist, as is also  Major de  Groot. 
I refer to the fanatic who was placed in a mental asylum, but is now in charge of a battalion of men at Parramatta. 
 Shame! 
It is not right that under the Home Security Regulations a man's home may be entered and searched without a warrant. It may lead to all sorts of happenings. I am fearful that the Lloyds, Campbells and de Groots in the community will some day bring off a  coup.  Only a fool would have clone what de Groot did on the day of the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. He was in his right place when in a mental asylum. 
1 rise to direct attention to what I regard as a matter of paramount importance, namely, the disturbed state of certain sections of industry. I do so because every day anti-Labour newspapers, which have their own axes to grind, criticize workers who are associated with industrial disputes. On very few occasions do we find a newspaper making a sincere effort to establish any relationship between cause and effect. Most critics assume - it is a convenient assumption - that persons who are associated with industrial disputes are always wrong, and that those who condemn them are invariably right. That attitude merely aggravates the position and does not in any way ameliorate conditions or remove the causes of unrest. Therefore, it is incumbent on those who think differently, and desire that there shall be industrial peace throughout the country, to use their best endeavours to direct attention to the facts. One of the causes of industrial unrest is the cost-plus profit system under which many contracts are let. In the  Economic Monograph No.  19, issued by the New South Wales Branch of the Economic Society of Australia and New Zealand, that system is described as follows : - 
This type of contract is designed to meet conditions where there has been no experience of production. Originally it was designed for munitions annexes, on specialized work, and  4  per cent, is paid on allowable expenses. These include direct  costs  of labour and material plus allowable overhead expenses which are attributable to the contract. 
The cost-plus system has been in operation for a considerable time. Dealing with this system a leading article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 21st August contained the following statement : - 
It is important that. " cost-plus " payments should be replaced by some more satisfactory form of contract,  providing  a direct incentive to economy. Even though the great majority of manufacturers have no desire to profiteer, no way should be left open for the unscrupulous few. It should be made the direct interest of contractors to economize and improve their methods, so that the need for Government .policing can be reduced to a minimum. The pressure against rising costs must;  ite  unrelenting in thi* time of enormously expanding Government expenditure. otherwise the result may well .be rising prices instead of rising output. Economy can he achieved only through the constant" vigilance  of  the men in charge of production, and they are in danger of losing sight of the importance of this factor when the services are clamouring for deliveries.' Economy  i3  in the interest not merely of the taxpayer, but of output. Now that war-time scarcities are being felt, .production will lag if there in waste of materials or of skill in the factories, and too much of such wastage is already taking  place 
The article continues - 
There can, of course, be no thought of a return to the tender system. 
Thus, no less an authority than the  Sydney Morning Herald  condemns the cost-plus system and also the tender system. The Government knows what is taking place, and should realize that the time has now arrived when it should endeavour to organize and introduce another system under which much better results could be obtained. The moral effect on the workers of the cost-plus system can be well imagined. In every industry employees of all kinds work for fixed wages. Out of their fixed wage they have to meet rising prices and provide against 'breaks in the continuity of their work. They know that, under the cost-plus system, contractors are allowed to add to their cost a proportion of profit, and that it has been suggested - and they have good reason to believe correctly - that, in many instances, their costs are heavily loaded. In addition to loaded costs, contractors operating under the cost-plus system are allowed overhead expenses. The impression in the minds of the workers is nhat those firms operating under tho cost-plus system can fix their return at almost any rate they think fit or that they believe will be allowed. 
The Government has yet to prove that it is not correct. I have the best of reasons for believing that the Government is prepared to allow very liberal overhead charges. A contractor may say, "My services are worth £20 a week " when, as a matter of fact, they may not be worth as much as these of the average tradesman under his supervision. 
 No doubt, in the opinion of the honorable senator, they, would not be worth as much as that. 
If the Minister, for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  were, the contractor and his management of the contract approximated to his management of his department, I am afraid that his services would not be worth the basic wage. If we are to have industrial peace, the Government must give serious attention to what is being done under the costplus system. Another factor causing industrial unrest is the policy of the Government in connexion with its employees when it is compelled to undertake certain public works, such as the alteration?" now being made to the London Stores Building in Melbourne. When such a job is completed, the Government says, to its employees, " We do not want your services any longer. Go out into the. street and look for another job." That has a bad moral effect on the workers who believe that the Government should, adopt a system of registration so that, us far as it is humanly possible to do so. continuity of employment is given to its employees. When men are working under the hire-and-fire system bad feeling is engendered among those who are put off as opposed to those who are kept on. They feel that those in charge discriminate unfairly between them. I am not in a position to say whether or not such discrimination is taking place, but it cannot be denied that both the cost-plus system and the hire-and-fire system cause industrial trouble. We find no less  a  person than the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  saying that those who cause dissension are traitors. I say to the right honorable gentleman that, if he were treated as these men have been treated, I believe that, knowing him as I do, we would probably find him leading agitations to cease work. 
Any selfrespecting man who is not prepared to tolerate injustices will not put up with that sort of thing without some resistance. If industrial peace be desired, Ministers of the Crown should adopt  a  more tolerant approach to this problem. Before rushing into print to condemn as  traitors those who object to the conditions under which they are employed, they would achieve more satisfactory results if they first ascertained the cause of the trouble. The average intelligent man would be the very last to condemn as traitors most of those who endeavour, by the only means in their power, to settle their grievances. Very serious industrial disturbances have occurred in the United States of America; but what did the Government of that country do? The following cabled report was published in the Melbourne  Age  of the 25th August, 194.1 :- 
The United States Navy has taken over the Federal Shipbuilding Company's dry docks at Kearny, New Jersey, where a strike has been in progress for sixteen days. Work will be resumed on Tuesday morning. Union officials immediately withdrew their picket lines. An immediate start will be made on defence contracts, which include the construction of two cruisers, six destroyers, three tankers and two freighters. 
I assume from that report that highly responsible politicians representing the Government of the United States of America saw that the only way by which peace in industry could be established was by making the workers themselves directly responsible to the Government rather than to shareholders or directors, who are more concerned about making profits than about the safety of the nation, and who bring to bear all the pressure they possibly can in order to compel employees to work for .the lowest possible rate of wages, and irritate them in various ways in order to subjugate them to their will. It is evident to me, understanding the industrial position as I do as the result of 30 years' experience in industrial matters, that the Government of the United States of America has decided that, in essential industries, the working staffs must be made directly responsible to the Government, and in doing so it was prepared to concede the best possible conditions in order to obtain the best results from its staffs. The longer this war lasts the more necessary it will become for the Government of this country to adopt a similar policy. Such a policy must be adopted in connexion with the coal-mining industry. The settlement of unrest in the coal-mining industry can never be achieved bv the means proposed under regulation 189, but only by the adoption of a policy which will satisfy the average coal-miner that he is being dealt with fairly, and he, in turn, should be prepared to deal fairly with the Government. I was privileged a couple of weeks ago to inspect the wonderful workshops of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, at Newcastle. There I saw men working under very strenuous and exacting conditions, particularly those handling huge ingots of steel to* be rolled into plates and ribbons, for the manufacture of pipes, elbows, bends and plates for shipbuilding and for other purposes. These men are anxious to continue their work in the interests of the nation, but they are well aware that the huge profits being made by their employers are benefiting private individuals and not the nation. In fact, much of the money that the employers are thus accumulating is actually being loaned to the Government at substantial interest rates. In such circumstances the men say, among themselves, " Why should we be expected to work ourselves to a standstill day after day before these blazing hot furnaces, handling these huge ingots of steel which are required for national purposes, under conditions which are yielding huge profits to private individuals but not to the nation?'"' It is natural that such ideas should cause average workers considerable resentment, and such resentment at times develops into an industrial dispute and possibly, later, into a strike. When that period is reached the newspapers declare that the men are holding up the national effort, and the Prime Minister says, " These men are traitors ". It will be impossible to organize a 100 per cent, war effort, which implies peace in industry and maximum service from all individuals, until it can be demonstrated that the fair thing is being done by the workers and that a few privileged individuals are not reaping inordinate profits. Whatever happens in the political arena, we must see that industry is kept in operation. To ensure that result, industry must be managed by men who know what they are doing, and who are prepared to take all necessary steps to see that the workers receive an honest deal. Such a condition of affairs will not be achieved while the cost-plus system.  the  tendeT  system, and the hire-and-fire system are retained in industry. The peculative or profiteering system, which is characteristic of such monopolist organizations as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, is not suitable for war-time needs. According to a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  Sir Iven  Mackay stated in Sydney yesterday 
We cannot toy with things; we have to be wholehearted and full of earnestness. 
I agree wholeheartedly with  Sir Iven  Mackay's sentiments. My complaint is that the Government is toying with things. So long as it allows the present practices to continue in industry it cannot be said to be engaged in a wholehearted and earnest war effort. 
I do. I am uncompromisingly opposed to the words which have been used by critics of the workers and to which I am directing attention. I am also uncompromisingly opposed to the man holding the highest office in this country describing the workers as traitors, for he knows, possibly ' better than I do, the conditions under which the workers are toiling.  I  shall, however, support and use such words as are necessary to reveal the present state of affairs, in the hope that thereby we may be able to achieve better results. 
I direct the attention of the Minister to the following report which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on the 28th July last: - 
The Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  addressing a large audience at an Empire rally at Balwyn yesterday declared that men who 
Bowed dissension, or refused to take disputes to one of the abundant tribunals set up to deal with them, were traitors to this country. 
I do not. I consider that the Prime Minister's utterance was extremely provocative. Such utterances do more to make a bad position worse than anything else that 
I can call to mind. Evidently the Prime Minister, like some of his colleagues, believes that he is reasoning with people when, in fact, he is abusing them. 
If I were prepared to follow the bad example set by the Prime Minister, I should probably call quite a number of people traitors who are using our war-time effort to enrich themselves at the expense of the workers in our factories and of the members of our fighting services oversea*. If the Minister desires to set  a  better example than that set by the Prime Minister he should take some strong action in Cabinet. Personally,  I  would always try to reason with people rather than abuse them. I believe that such a policy would yield far better results than the Government is at present obtaining. The .Prime Minister, in the address to which I have already referred, also said - 
Any man who, in this country of oura,  ia  not prepared to take his dispute to one of the abundant tribunals set up to solve it, but is prepared instead to deny your sons and brothers shells, guns and ammunition,  is. a  traitor to this country. 
The ordinary unsophisticated reader of such a statement would probably think it was all right. But what are these tribunals to which the Prime Minister referred? In most instances they are presided over by men of legal training who are well qualified to appear in courts of law to argue on legal matters. My view is that unless the persons sitting on these various tribunals have a good working knowledge of the industries with which they are expected to deal, they cannot possibly he competent to deal with them. They may be excellent advocates on legal questions, but they cannot possibly be qualified to deal with the details of industrial disputes. The workers have discovered this by bitter experience. If an effort were made to discuss the merits and demerits of the cost-plus system before any industrial court, the judge would dismiss the matter with  a  wave of the hand and the remark that it was government policy. Had the judge known his job, he would have listened attentively to the arguments being submitted to him and he would then have made  a  recommendation that the system be changed. But that course was not followed. These legal gentlemen are creatures of precedent rather than of initiative. Precedents must be followed by them. The adoption of that attitude to a particular industry usually causes 'a dispute, then a bitter clash, and next a strike, with the holding up of industry and the wastage of man-power, material, money and everything else. All this happens because the person presiding over a particular tribunal lacks knowledge of the job which has been delegated1 to him by the Government. J do not make these remarks merely to criticize the Government. I make them in the hope that the Government will heed what I am saying and try to improve the position. I am supported in my submissions by statements which have appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald,  one of the leading newspapers of the Commonwealth. Whatever happens in this Parliament, we must surely see to it that industry is kept moving. When the workers are properly treated, they will keep industry moving. If a right approach be made to the workers on the waterfront, on the coal-fields, or in any other branch of industry where the workers have a reputation, manufactured' for them by their opponents, of always wishing to go on strike, it will be found that they are reasonable men. 
We made such an effective approach that the dispute was quickly settled. I shall describe to the Minister what actually happened. When the coal-miners went on strike last year, the Prime Minister made an appeal to them which proved to be futile. Other persons also made futile appeals. Threats followed, and these, too, were futile. Then the Emergency Committee, consisting of the  president  of the Australasian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr. A.  E. Monk; the secretary,  Mr. C.  Crofts;  Mr. Cleary,  M.L.C., and I, went to Sydney. We made no threats and we did not reflect upon anybody. We called a meeting of representatives of the men concerned in the dispute and discussed with them the merits of their case. We also interviewed certain representatives of owners and discovered some difficulties which proved to be quite easy to settle. Within a few days, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes),  the then Treasurer  (Mr. Spender),  the then Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Mair)  and representatives of the miners and allied' industries sat around a table with us and in two or three hours we settled a dispute which others had been unable to settle after weeks of effort. The attitude of the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  suggests to me that he does not desire industrial disputes to be settled. He is looking for a law-and-order cry for an election campaign. He would welcome an excuse to bring soldiers out to shoot their fellow-workers. 
The honorable gentleman would probably also like to bring out the police force. Unless he is prepared to adopt a more reasonable attitude in these matters and to cease making stupid interjections which have no bearing on the subject at issue, he will never achieve better results than he is at present obtaining. The average worker who is criticized because he is associated with industrial strikes is just as loyal and sincere as many of his critics. The workers want to see the principle of equality of sacrifice actually applied.- That is not an unreasonable request. While they work hard in .the factories, and do their best to bring about a maximum output, they expect that others, more favorably placed, shall do something approximating to what they do. They do not expect that they should be asked, in the name of equality of sacrifice, .to work their hardest, and at the lowest wage, while others receive a veritable harvest of profit. You can talk as much as you like,' but you cannot convince them that those conditions approximate to equality of sacrifice. The Government should make it clear that sacrifices shall be made in accordance with the ability of all sections to make sacrifices. If that be done, you will have very little dissension in industry. To-day, the people see Ministers travelling around the country spending a great deal in excess of .their need - and this observation also applies to ourselves - while they are expected to pay, without protest, increased prices for tea and other necessaries of life. Those conditions do not represent equality of sacrifice. Unless something is done in the direction I have indicated, we shall not have peace in industry. Those who criticize simply for the sake of criticizing, and go round the country, posing as ultra patriots, condemning the workers because they dare protest against these conditions, only assist to make a bad position worse. If the few words I have uttered this afternoon have any effect in bringing about a change for the better in our industrial life, I shall feel amply repaid. 
In view of the wonderful work  Senator Cameron  performed as a conciliator in the coal strike in New South Wales last year, and in other grave industrial upheavals over a long period of years, the Government parties might avail themselves of his services to solve the troubles in which they find themselves to-day. Having heard so much from honorable senators opposite of the tribunals that could be availed of by the workers in order to solve their troubles, it seems a shame that they themselves, who set up these tribunals, cannot ask these brain trusts to solve their own troubles. 
I had hoped to take advantage of the debate on the ministerial statement made in this chamber last week to deal generally with government policy; but anticipating that I shall have an early opportunity to deal fully with such matters, I propose, at this juncture, to address myself only to one or two subjects. A report of  a  meeting of the Red Cross Society, appearing in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald,  deals with a matter which- has troubled my mind ever since the outbreak of the war. According to that report speakers at that meeting said that the defence authorities were sponging on the society. Those authorities are sponging on not only the Red Cross Society, but also on nearly every other organization which has been set up for the purpose of raising funds for patriotic purposes, including the Lord Mayor's Fund Committee in Sydney. Requests are made repeatedly by the military and naval authorities to these organizations for articles for the members of the services which it is the first duty of the Government to provide. I recall that requests were made to the Lord Mayor's Fund Committee for such things as socks, singlets and underwear for members of our fighting services. Such articles should be a first charge on the Government; but for some reason or other, the Government shirks that responsibility as it shirks every responsibility which it can evade. The Red Cross Society has presented a mobile hygiene and bacteriological unit to the Army, and a refrigerator to the Navy to be installed on H.M.A.S.  Sydney.  No honorable senator, I feel sure, would suggest that that is right. If articles of that kind are required by the Army or the Navy, it is the Government's duty to provide them. However, according to the report which I have mentioned,  Sir Charles  Bickerton Blackburn told the meeting that although these things were necessary, they were not items that the Red Cross Society should supply. He went on to say that if the society could obtain them more quickly than the authorities concerned, the Government should recompense the society for such expenditure. The statement that a body, such as the Red Cross Society, can obtain supplies even more quickly than the Government is, to say the least, amazing. It is an indictment of the business methods of the Government. Another gentleman at that meeting, Mir. George Paterson, said that the authorities were apt to sponge on the society. This is a matter to which, I suggest, the Government should, in its few remaining troubled days of office, give consideration. It reminds me of the Government's policy of obtaining men from private enterprise and appointing them to extremely high executive positions without pay. All thinking men will, on principle, disagree with that practice. The fact that many men in the community arc prepared to offer their services to the Government in an honorary capacity is to be commended, but, while appreciating such offers, the Government should pay for the services of any man it employs in that way. T d-d ay, when we have budgets, not of the old totals of £60,000,000 and £70.000,000. but nearly £200,000,000. the least we can do is to pay wages to men whose services  we employ in our war effort, and also ensure that essential articles required by the Army and the Navy are not sponged from charitable institutions such as the Red Cross Society. Those organizations have a big enough job to do in their own particular provinces. 
I desire to say a few words concerning the effect of petrol rationing in country districts. All honorable senators frequently receive communications from drivers of motor vehicles in the country districts who complain of the effect of the present drastic petrol rationing. The man in the country - and I now refer to people who reside, not in country towns, but in areas about 8 or 10 miles from any town - is in a different position in this respect from the man in the city. When the latter is deprived of his quota of petrol for pleasure purposes he can still avail himself of other means of transport, and can turn to other forms of entertainment which' take the place of the motoring which he previously enjoyed. I have received  a letter from a gentleman who resides about 12 miles out of Canowindra, in which he states that his pleasure ration has been absolutely eliminated. He is still allowed his ration for work around his farm. The point I emphasize is that pleasure in the country districts is inextricably bound up with transport facilities. In most cases a country resident seeks his pleasure in visits to other districts, or to the local township where the farmers of the district are accustomed to congregate. With the elimination of his quota of petrol for pleasure purposes, the man in country areas is now denied such amenities. 
The honorable senator's observation hardly applies in this connexion. If I were to deal more widely with petrol rationing I could point out that the Army authorities in Australia, by wasting petrol, are not showing a very good example to their comrades in Tobruk. 
On previous occasions I have proved waste in the use of petrol on the part of the Army authorities. I have shown that not one vehicle used in military-camps is equipped with a producer-gas unit. It is obvious that a certain percentage of the department's motor vehicles must be retained for ordinary commercial work, and I suggest that such vehicles, as distinct from cars and trucks actually used in military work, should be fitted with producer-gas units. 
That interjection is similar to the interjections which the honorable senator invariably has made when I have been speaking on similar subjects in the past. I recall that when I presented a case for shipbuilding in Australia, he used practically the same words, saying that those who knew did not agree with me. Yet, two months later, the Government, on the advice of experts, inaugurated a programme of shipbuilding. Apparently the necessity for doing certain things must be forced right under the nose of the Government before it can realize the inevitability of such action being taken. A high percentage of military vehicles used by the Russian Army are equipped with producer-gas units ; yet Russia has ample supplies of petrol at its doorstep. We have failed to take action in this direction simply because the Government lacks the drive and determination essential to the handling of problems of this kind. Producergas units figure prominently in the every-day life of the Scandinavian countries. 
No ; the percentage of producer-gas units used in transport operations in Australia is a scathing indictment of the efforts of the Government to solve the petrol position. The Government has been on the retreat the whole of the time, and its indecision finally plunged this country, commercially and in other respects, into a depression which could have been avoided. 
I did nothing of the kind. 
Had the Labour party been in control within recent years, petrol rationing would not have become necessary. Restrictions on the use of petrol are not imposed in South Africa, and even in Great Britain the effect on users, proportionately to the number of commercial units involved, is less severe than in Australia, despite the fact that supplies have to be transported thousands of miles through hostile waters, and that probably from 16 per cent, to 20 per cent, of the vessels conveying it are sunk by enemy action. The defeatist attitude of the Minister for Supply and Development has characterized every action of the Government since the commencement of the war. An all-in war effort cannot be developed under the present administration. The sooner the existing turmoil in the ranks of the Government is brought to a head, and present Ministers are replaced on the Treasury bench by gentlemen who now sit in Opposition, the sooner will a war effort in accordance with the wishes of the people be put in operation. Every opportunity is afforded to the Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  to place before the country, through the columns of the press and over the national network of broadcasting stations, the policy and programme of the Government, but we wait in vain for the translation of his words into action which will give hope to the men and women of the nation. What has happened to the new prospectus which was given birth when the Prime Minister returned from Great Britain? Three additional Ministers were appointed, and the promise was made that thenceforth the war effort would be on a proper basis. Has there since been any acceleration of operations which would alleviate the doubt felt by men and women of the adequacy of the measures being taken? Are tanks trundling along our main streets ? Are front-line fighter aeroplanes being produced? Has one Bristol Beaufort bomber been wholly constructed in Australia? The production of those things, by whose means alone can wars be won, is deplorably below anticipations, despite the fact that the war has been in progress for nearly two years. Another year or two years will elapse before there is evidence of the results desired, if the present occupants of the Treasury bench are allowed to continue in office. What is the use of having a standing army of 250,000 men, if it  i3  armed only with the 303 rifle? What would be the position of this country if it were faced with a crisis ? 
I wish that I could believe what I am told by honorable gentlemen opposite; but I know that what I say is right. Not even the Prime Minister himself can point to one tank, fighter aeroplane, or Bristol Beaufort bomber which is being produced in Australia. Until that has been achieved, the present Government will not have done its part in making Australia safe from any attack which might be launched against its shores. Only when it has been driven from office is it likely that the will of the people will prevail in this Parliament. I lay the blame for the present position, not so much on the responsible officers of the Defence Department as on the psychology which gives rise to the view that this country cannot be defended. Because of that psychology, production in Australia is devoted not so much to those things which are needed for our own defence as to items which can be sent to other countries. The Army and the Air Force should not only be trained but also have placed at their disposal that which is essential to enable them to wage war. 
The position of the country petrol user needs to be revised. Because of the war, and the shifting of population from country towns to the cities, in which munition works are situated, those towns which have not a military camp or other activity which will keep money in the district, are facing a parlous future. Many of the main streets of the principal towns in the western and southern portions of New South Wales have rows of empty shops, and unless the residents of the district are given sufficient petrol to enable them to conduct their operations, the fate of those towns is sealed. I urge the Minister so to  act that country towns and industries may survive. This result can be achieved if the men and women who are developing those industries are encouraged to continue the work that they are doing in the interests of Australia. 
 in reply  - I appreciate the brevity of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  but I am unable to say that the good example which he set was closely followed by some of his colleagues; although, in the main, their contribution to the debate was quite worth while. 
I agree with  Senator Keane  that  Mr. Craig's  application to the Capital Issues Advisory Board might very well have been expedited; however, as the matter is now approaching finality, nothing further can be done. 
I have also noted the suggestion of the honorable senator that some slight explanation of the budget might be made. 
I  shall bring the matter to the notice of the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden),  and feel sure that, if possible, his desire will be met. I have also noted the reference of  Senator Clothier  to the federal members' rooms in Perth. I shall bring that matter to the notice of the appropriate authorities, in order to see whether additional accommodation may be provided for senators and members who represent the State of Western Australia. 

 Senator Brown made certain remarks in respect of invalid pensions. A committee is at present engaged upon the investigation of the social services of this country, and I suggest that the points raised might very well be referred to it. The Government expects to receive from it a report dealing with the removal of the anomalies and hardships that exist under the present system. 

 Senator Amour was rather illogical, in first complaining of the prevalence of unemployment, and then making the further complaint that women are being employed and towns are being entirely denuded of their manpower. It must be admitted that the unemployment position is better at present than it has been previously in our history. The time is fast approaching when more extensive use will have to be made of female labour, in order that industries which are essential to the war effort may be carried on effectively. 

 Senator Cameron made a typical speech, containing statements which, if he makes them often enough, he will believe to be true. So far he has not, I suggest, convinced many persons of the soundness of the allegations he has made from time to time. 
The cost-plus system is operating very successfully in my department, from the standpoint of both production and the cost to the Government. Honorable senators must, I am sure, recognize that, because of the variety and number of the activities which the Government was called upon to undertake, in many cases without any previous knowledge, some difficulties were bound to arise. The Government had to ascertain, first where certain articles should be made; and, secondly, the cost of making them. It was deemed advisable, indeed necessary, therefore, that some system should be introduced other than the contract or fixedprice system. After full consideration had been given to the matter by persons who were considered competent to deal with the subject, it was decided to add to the fixed-price system the target-price and cost-plus system. The cost-plus system is used only in connexion with those forms of production of which we have had no experience. Had manufacturers been asked to tender in the ordinary course of their business, not knowing the cost, the figure tendered would have included a generous allowance to cover all contingencies. It was felt that, in fairness to the manufacturers themselves, and to the Government in particular, it would be better to operate what has become known as the cost-plus system. It was never intended that that system should continue to operate for any great length of time ; the idea was that, so soon as the approximate cost of producing a given article had been ascertained, contracts should be let on a fixed-price basis, which would be fair to both the manufacturer and the Government. As an illustration, I refer to a particular component which is being made in an annexe in Sydney. When the annexe was completed, and operations were about to commence, negotiations were instituted with the firm which was to exercise control. Commonwealth executives felt, in view of the experience they had had in making somewhat similar components - under quite different circumstances, I admit - that the manufacture of this particular component would cost 18s. The firm was not prepared to undertake the contract at that price, and it was let to it on a cost-plus basis. Under that system costs are checked periodically, and in this instance a check has been made every three months. At each check considerable reductions in the cost of making this particular component were effected. That is only natural, because the workers become more adept at their various jobs and the production rate increases. 
They are assessed on a fixed basis. Certain overhead charges are allowable, but others, which normally would be included in the production costs of the firm, are disallowed. We have set out very fully the overhead costs which are allowable under the cost-plus system. The operation of that system in regard to the particular component to which I have referred was very gratifying. Whereas the price originally fixed as being fair w.as 18s. a unit, production costs have been reduced progressively until when the last check was made, the price was 8s. a unit, and I am authoritatively informed that with a few minor alterations to the machinery, the price will be reduced eventually to 6s. a unit - one-third of the original price. I mention that matter to assure honorable senators that in the many and varied forms of manufacture which are being undertaken a few abuses may occur, but in the main many items have been produced much quicker than would otherwise have been the case, and at a lower cast. 
The Government has not fallen down on its war effort, as. has been suggested by  Senator Armstrong.  Indeed, in the House of Representatives last night one of the honorable senator's colleagues expressed a view diametrically opposed to that of the honorable senator. He said in effect - and I am in entire agreed ment with him - that Australia had nothing to apologize for with regard to its war effort. Indeed, I think that this country has given one of the finest examples that could be cited of what can be done by industrial organization, even with a limited population. Not only has the Government not fallen down on its job, but with the full co-operation of industry, and of the workers, generally, it has also done something which was not thought possible before this war occurred. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move - 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
The Supply Act (No. 1) 1941-42 covers a period of two months up to the 31st August. Supply is now sought for a further period of two months - to the 31st October, 1941. The measure makes provision for an amount of £11,576,000 to meet expenditure under the following heads : - 

<graphic href="168332194108282_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts included in the bill are based on the rates of expenditure approved in the appropriation for 1940-41. Only in a few isolated items, in connexion with which the expenditure is heavier in the earlier part of the year, has the proportion of one-third of last year's provision been exceeded. The provision made for defence and war services in this bill and in the previous  Supply  Act represents the amount which will be available from revenue receipts for the first four months of the year after making allowance for our other obligations. In addition to the expenditure from this defence vote there will, of course, be much greater expenditure which will be  covered by existing loan appropriations. No provision has been made under the heading "Advance to the Treasurer" as the amount of £5,000,000 in Supply Act (No. 1) is adequate for requirements. Except in the case of defence and war services no provision is made in the bill for any new expenditure, and no departure from existing policy is involved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I am not entirely satisfied with the answers which I received yesterday from the Minister representing the Treasurer to my questions relating to exemptions over and above a wife and one child for taxation purposes, and I wish to bring certain aspects of the matter to the notice of the Government. The reply given to my questions was to the effect that circulars had not been issued by the Commissioner of Taxation stating that deductions would not be allowable in respect of children for whom child endowment is payable. That is contrary to the information which I have received from several people in Tasmania. The following is an extract from a letter forwarded to me by a taxpayer: - 
By a footnote on the base of a taxation circular recently received, my list of exemptions for dependants is limited to wife and one child, owing presumably to child endowment, but I have five children under the age of sixteen years. 
Apparently that taxpayer had a circular attached to his taxation form informing him that deductions would be allowable only in respect of his wife and one child, whereas actually he has five children. It seems that the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  is endeavouring, by means of back-door methods, to extract something from taxpayers without the authority of Parliament. The Minister knows that, because in answer to my question yesterday he said that the Treasurer had indicated to certain departments that these deductions were contemplated. The deductions are not being made at present unless the assessments are challenged by the taxpayers, and exemptions are asked for. That is a most cowardly way of approaching the matter. Taxpayers started to receive endowment only at the beginning of the financial year 1941-42, but the Government is seeking to deprive them of taxation exemption in respect of the income earned in the previous year. The Minister has admitted that the Treasurer issued instructions to that effect, though he had no legal power to do so. 
I challenge the Minister to produce and lay on the table of the Senate the regulation under which the Treasurer acted. The Minister knows very well that the Treasurer had no such power; he was just trying to slip a swift one over the public. This is the gentleman who is now seeking to become Prime Minister of Australia. I have mentioned one of the tricks that he has been getting up to even before he has attained that high position. What may we expect from him, if he ever does achieve his ambition? The Minister may smile, but we all know very well what the Treasurer is after. We. know why we were called here to Canberra a week before the fixed date. It was because of the chaos which had developed in the ranks of the Government's supporters - because  Mr. Fadden  and one or two of his friends were seeking to employ against  Mr. Menzies  the same tactics as that gentleman himself had used against the ex-Prime Minister, the late  Mr. Lyons. 
Another anomaly has to do with the refusal of the Treasurer to allow income tax exemption to the parent of an invalid child over sixteen years of age if that parent is in receipt of a certain income - and it need not be a very large income. The invalid child cannot obtain a pension because the parent is in receipt of more than the stipulated income, and the parent cannot receive income tax exemption in respect of that child because the child is over sixteen years of age. The Government is trying to get it both ways. I say that a father who is not receiving a large income is entitled to a £50 exemption in respect of an invalid child over sixteen years whom he is supporting. In order to qualify for a pension, the invalid child must leave its parents' home and wander the streets, or go to a boarding house and, being unable to pay its board, have itself brought before the court as a destitute person. That is an anomaly which cries aloud for correction. 
It would he greatly to the advantage of members of Parliament, anr] to the public generally, if Ministers were able to attend more expeditiously to matters brought to their notice. During the lost period of this session of Parliament, I approached the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  with a request that fares be paid to soldiers returning on leave to their homes in isolated places not served by railway or suitable ships. The honorable member for Bass  (Mr. Barnard)  and I put the case to the Minister, who promised to give to it sympathetic consideration, and to furnish a reply later. No reply was received. I sent a letter to the Minister jogging his memory and this time he replied saying that the matter was receiving his attention. Several weeks later I received another letter from him, but it did not deal with this matter - it waa on  a  different subject altogether. Then I wrote a long letter to the Minister in which I repeated the original request. After another week had elapsed I received a reply from him saying that the matter was receiving attention. A few weeks later - since the beginning of this period of the session - I received from the Minister the following reply: - 
Witta reference to your further representations of 28th July, in regard to free transport for members of the military forced proceeding to and from Flinders Island on leave, I desire to inform you that as the provision of free air transport concerns all services, it has been necessary to refer the matter to the Department of Defence Co-ordination for consideration. 
As soon as a decision is made, further advice will be furnished. 
Thus, after he had been considering the matter for months, he suddenly realized that  it did  not concern him at all, and referred  it  to the Department of Defence Coordination. The same sort of thing happened in  regard  to a matter which touched upon shipping. I addressed the application in the first instance to the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Harrison).  I do not know whether I was right in doing that, but  it  is very hard to keep track of Ministers, and their depart* ments  in  these days when they are being changed around so rapidly. After a few weeks, a reply was sent stating that the request had been received. Then, two weeks later, a communication came from the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay)  stating that the application was receiving consideration. A few days ago, I received a further communication stating that the matter  did  not concern  Senator McLeay's  department, but should be dealt with by the Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page),  to whom he had referred it. I saw the secretary of that department, who promised to speed things up, but I have heard nothing since. I am curious to know whether the next reply will be from the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes).  I do not for a moment believe that these delays are due to the wilful neglect of Ministers, but  if  they are caused by the present unstable political situation, then the sooner the Government parties can come to some understanding among themselves or get out and allow some one else to govern; the better it will be for Australia. 
SenatorMcBRIDE (South AustraliaMinister for Munitions) [4.41]. - This morning,  Senator Clothier  asked the Ministerrepresenting the Minister for Labour and National Service the following question :  - 
Can the Minister give the Senate any information as to the action proposed by the Government to ensure that sufficient manpower is left available to the gold-mining industry to prevent the threatened wholesale closing down in some districts of Western Australia ? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer :  - 
Labour supply for the gold-mining industry was discussed personally with the Premier of Western Australia in Melbourne on the 11th August, and immediate action was taken by the Department of Labour and National Service, the Man-power and Resources Survey Committee and the military authorities in Western Australia to meet the special difficulties to which the Premier called attention. A report was received from Perth on the 15th August that the matter had been adjusted to the satisfaction of the Western Australian Minister for Mines. A high proportion of occupations in the industry were alreadyon the reserved list, and it was arranged that substantial numbers of non-reserved goldmining employees should not be called up for militia training. Special consideration has been extended to isolated mines. This whole question is now engaging the attention of the newly-formed Man-power Priorities Board. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  Mrs. Charles  Hardy and family a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of ex-Senator Charles Hardy. 
I have received from  Mr. J.  G. Drake a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of the Honorable James George Drake. 
It is with regret that I announce to the Senate the death of  Dr. Millice  Culpin, a former member of the House of Representatives, who died in Brisbane on the 1st September last. The late  Dr. Culpin  was elected to the House of Representatives for the division of Brisbane in 1903, and continued to represent that electorate until 1906. He died in his 95th year, and at the time of his death was the oldest medical practitioner in 
Queensland. Many years have passed since he sat in the Commonwealth Parliament, but in keeping with the tradition of this Parliament, we honour his memory, and on behalf of the Senate I extend to the members of his family our sincere sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Dr. Millice  Culpin, a former member of the House of Representatives for the division of Brisbane, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 
The late  Dr. Millice  Culpin was one of my oldest personal friends. He died at the remarkable age of 95 years, and retired from the active practice of his profession as a doctor in 1920. He was a native of England, having commenced his education at Aileynea Grammar School, Stevenage, just three months before the outbreak of the Crimean War. He came to Brisbane, more than 60 years ago. He was elected to this Parliament in 1903 as the member for the division of Brisbane. He held the seat for one term only and was then defeated. 
In those early days in the history of federation,  Dr. Culpin's  advent to this Parliament was regarded by some of us as a highly creditable achievement. It was most unusual to have a member of the medical profession espousing the cause of Labour, and we were very proud of the fact that he had been elected to this Parliament. He was a man of remarkable personality. Like most successful medical men he had a decided bedside manner, as well as a most agreeable voice. Despite the fact that he was a vigorous champion of the political cause in which he believed, and also of the faith which he held, gentility and tenderness to an unusual degree were characteristic of him. One rarely meets men with such qualities as those of the late  Dr. Culpin.  He was a prominent member of the Queensland Rationalist Society right up to the time of his death. He had a remarkably talented family.  His  wife died many years ago, but he is survived by two sons and three daughters. Professor Millie* Culpin, a noted psychologist, now practises in London and another son is  Dr. E.  Culpin, of Brisbane. One of his daughters is Miss D. E. Culpin, B.A., who obtained her degree in the Queensland University. One son, Private Howard Clarence Culpin, was killed in action in the last war. We regret to have to record the passing of so many who have played a great part in the political life of this country. When a man has reached the great age of 95 years, death is not unexpected, but it remains our duty to remember those who have rendered great service to the Commonwealth in the past. For members of the Opposition, and on my own behalf particularly, I express appreciation of the late  Dr.  Culpin's  services to his  coun-  try, and our deep sympathy with the members of hi3 family, in their bereavement. 
I associate the members of the Country party in this chamber with the motion before the Senate. The late  Dr. Culpin  undoubtedly had a remarkable career and attained a great age. He was held in the highest esteem by all with whom he came in contact. We express our deep sympathy with the members of the family and with the other relatives, in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
It is with regret that I inform the Senate of the death, in Melbourne, on the 8th September, of ex-Senator BrigadierGeneral William Kinsey Bolton. The deceased gentleman was elected to the Senate for Victoria at the general elections in 1917 and was a senator till 1923. During the term of his parliamentary service he was a member of the Parliamentary Recruiting Committee in 1918. He was also a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts from 1920 to 1923. In the war of 1914-18 he was appointed to command the 8th Battalion of the Australian Imperial Force, and left Australia in October, 1914. He saw active service on Gallipoli and was invalided home in 1915. On behalf of the Senate, I extend to his widow and family our deepest sympathy, and move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of former  Senator William  Kinsey Bolton, C.B.E., V.D., places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
I had not the privilege of acquaintance with the late ex-Senator Bolton, but it is our duty, as well as our privilege, to pass a motion expressing our appreciation of the services which he rendered to his country, not only as a member of this Senate, but also in other ways, and to convey our sincere sympathy to his widow and family. 
Like the 'Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings),  I had not the honour of personal acquaintance with the late exSenator Bolton, but I have a knowledge of the work that he did during his lifetime, and I know that he did a great amount of good. Perhaps he can best be described as one of nature's gentlemen. The members of the Country party in the Senate desire to be associated with the motion, particularly that portion of it which expresses sympathy with his widow and the members of his family. 
As an old friend of the late ex-Senator Bolton, I desire to support the motion. In Victoria he was better known as a soldier than as a politician. For over 25 years before the Great War, BrigadierGeneral Bolton, like hundreds of other officers in the Volunteer and Militia Forces, 'gave up his week-ends and holidays to prepare himself for the time when his services might be needed. The knowledge so gained stood him in good stead when, shortly after the outbreak of the 1914-18 war, he was given the responsible task of raising, training and commanding the8th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force. How well he carried out that task was afterwards shown at the landing on Gallipoli on the 25th April, 1915. A glance at any war map of the Anzac sector of the Gallipoli Peninsula reveals the words " Bolton Ridge " on one of the key positions - a position taken and retaken on that memorable day and night by the 8th Battalion. The locality was so named as a tribute to that unit, whose commander, despite his years, gained a reputation as a first-class front-line commander. The welfare of his men was always his first consideration. After the gruelling battle of Krithia on the 7th and the 8th May, 1915,  Colonel Bolton's  health militated against further active command. I took over the battalion from him on the 16th May of that year. 
In the post-war years the deceased gentleman took no active part in military affairs, but he was always to the fore in the advocacy of better treatment of returned soldiers. 
I join with honorable senators in this tribute to a lovable man, a true Australian, and a democrat; and I wish to be associated with the motion of condolence which extends our sincere sympathy to his widow and family. 
I, too, desire to be associated with the motion. The late Brigadier-General Bolton was elected to the Senate on the same day that I was elected, in 1917. I well remember the fight that he always put up in this chamber on behalf of returned soldiers, particularly when the late  Senator E.  D. Millen was piloting through this chamber the first Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Bill. That measure was improved in many ways as the result of suggestions made by ex-Senator Bolton. The sympathy of all honorable senators goes out to his widow and to the members of his family in their great loss. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 by leave  - On the 27th August,  Senator Aylett  directed certain questions to the Minister representing the Treasurer and asked who had instructed the Commissioner of Taxation to circularize taxpayers to the effect that the only family deductions allowed are for a wife and one child, and tinder whose authority such instructions were issued. As Minister representing the Treasurer I stated that the Commissioner of Taxation did not. so circularize taxpayers. My statement was made in the certain knowledge that no instruction of the kind had been issued by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation and in the belief that the instructions issued to  Deputy  Commissioners regarding instalment deductions were so clear as to preclude the possibility of such a circular being issued in any State. On the following day, the 28th August,  Senator Aylett  drew the attention of the Senate to a circular issued by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Tasmania, wherein it was stated that in calculating instalment deductions the allowance made for dependent, children was to be limited to one child. Inquiries were immediately instituted by the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation, and it has been discovered that the circular referred to was issued by the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in Hobart, who is also the State Commissioner of Taxes. The circular was issued without the concurrence of the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation and is definitely contrary to the instructions issued by him. Immediate action was taken to issue a circular to every employer in Tasmania correcting the circular complained of and advising that, in every case where an employee furnishes a declaration in respect of more than one child under the age of sixteen, the instalment deducted from his salary or wages is to be reduced by an amount of 3s. for each child shown in the declaration. Advice has now been received by the Commissioner of Taxation that such a circular has been forwarded to every employer in Tasmania. 
Has any provision been made for the refund of tax wrongfully collected under the first circular to which the Minister has just referred? 
Will the Minister state on what date the correcting circular was issued to prevent the illegal collection of taxes? 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development state what authority is investigating and reporting upon the selection of a site in Western Australia for the erection of the proposed distillery for the production of power alcohol from wheat? Has a report yet been submitted to the Government? If so, will particulars as to the location of the site be made available to honorable senators ? 
The Western Australian Government was asked to advise the Commonwealth as to a suitable site, and has furnished a report on the subject. The answer' to the last part of the honorable senator's questionis " No ". 
The site has not yet been decided upon. It is not the custom to disclose confidential information given to the Commonwealth Government by the government of a State until a decision has been reached. 
Will the Minister for Supply and Development state when finality will be reached by the Government in connexion with the application of  Mr. D.  A. Craig for authority to establish a refinery in New South Wales for the treatment of crude oil, petrol and bitumen ? 
The Government hopes to reach a decision in regard to the matter shortly. 
Will the Leader of the Senate suggest to the Prime Minister that a suitable message be sent to the members of the Tobruk garrison expressing the appreciation of this Parliament of the splendid stand which the garrison has made in the last few months, a stand which has favorably influenced the course of events in Libya? 
I shall be pleased to bring the matter to the notice of the Prime Minister. If such a message be sent, I hope that the name of the honorable senator will be included in it. 
In view of the number of conflicting statements made by the Minister for Supply and Development concerning petrol rationing, will the Minister now make a considered statement of policy on thesubject to which he will adhere for at least a fortnight ? 
I have notmade conflicting statements in regard to the matter. If the honorable senator can point to any evidence of conflictingstatements made by me on the subject I shall give his question a considered reply. 
Will the Minister for Repatriation state whether any applications for war service homes have been received from soldiers who have served in the present war, and whether such applications will be given priority over those already received from men who served in the last war? Further, how long will it be before all applications for war service homes received from men who served in the last war are finally dealt with? 
Some, but not many, applications for war service homes have been received from men who have served in the present war. New applications will be dealt with in the order in which they are received. I cannot answer the honorable senator's final question as I should like to be able to do. The handling of those applications depends on many factors, including, to a large degree, the fact that we are now engaged in war. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army under what authority the Government enlists men in the Militia Forces and informs them that the term of their service is for the duration of the war? 
Under the Commonwealth Defence Act. 
Has any appointment yet been made to the Commonwealth Grants Commission to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of  Sir Frederic  Eggleston, who was recently appointed as Australian Minister to China? In view of the fact that the term of appointment of the present members of the Commission will expire in about six weeks, does the Government intend to reconstitute that body? 
No successor to  Sir Frederic  Eggleston, who was  chairman  of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, has yet been appointed, but this matter is now being considered by the Government. I shall bring the honorable senator's second question to the notice of the Prime Minister. 
In view of the fact that the call-up for military service includes married men without children, can a married man to whose wife a child is born one month after he entered camp obtain exemption from such service? 
If the honorable senator will place his question on the notice-paper I shall obtain a reply for him. 
Has the 
Minister for Aircraft Production noticed an article by Captain P. G. Taylor in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 16th September on the necessity for providing a strong force of fighter aircraft for the defence of Australia? In view of the unanswerable case made out by Captain Taylor, when will the Minister be able to announce - (1) The commencement of manufacture of fighter aircraft in Australia ; (2) the date on which it is anticipated that the first fighter aircraft will be completed; and (3) the name and nature of the proposed fighter aircraft to be manufactured in Australia? 
I have seen the article referred to by the honorable senator. The Government has already taken step3 to provide fighter aircraft in Australia and plans are already being prepared for the construction of such aircraft. At this juncture, I cannot say the exact date on which manufacture will commence, but I shall be able, within a few days, to announce that date, and also the kinds of aircraft to be manufactured. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether, in view of the present grave shortage of labour, which will most probably become more pronounced, he will consider allowing oldage pensioners to earn sufficient with their pensions to bring their income up to the basic wage, and in, that way help to relieve the shortage of labour? 
I shall bring the honorable senator's question to the notice of the Minister. However, I remind the honorable senator that that matter is now being considered by the Joint Committee on Social Security, which is representative of all parties in this Parliament. Any recommendation which that committee makes will receive the sympathetic consideration of the Government. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army inform me whether the recommendation of the. General Officer Commanding the Australian Home Forces,  Lieutenant-General  Sir Iven  Mackay, that a section of the Royal Australian Air Force should be attached to the Army, has been implemented, or has the opposition shown by the officers of that Force defeated the proposal? 
The whole question of strategy associated with the command of the Home Forces by Lieutenant-General  Sir Iven  Mackay is at present under consideration. I assure the honorable senator that neither the officers of the Royal Australian Air Force nor anybody else has offered opposition to anything that is likely to assist in the defence of Australia. 
As the Leader of the Senate has so frequently mentioned that there are experts in Australia on the processing of flax, will he supply the secretary of the Joint Committee on Rural Industries, with the names and addresses of those experts, with the exception of  Dr. A.  E. V. Richardson, who has already given  evidence, so that they may be called before the committee, and thus expedite its inquiries? 
As the question indicates, we could not find a better source of information than the honorable senator himself. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army state whether the report appearing in the press to the effect that the Minister for the Army intends to arrange for the provision of hair-dressing saloons costing £450 in each military camp is true, and if so, will inquiries be made in order to ascertain whether the saloons are to be on palatial lines such as those at the Australia Hotel, David Jones Limited, and Farmer and Company Limited, in Sydney, because I am  confident  that suitable saloons with at least five or six chairs could be provided at a cost of £100. 
I cannot say whether the statement is entirely correct, but I know that the Minister for the Army desires to ensure that members of our fighting forces are given an opportunity to obtain the services provided in such saloons under favorable conditions. Surely none will begrudge the provision of such a service. 
Oan the Minister for Repatriation inform me whether it is a fact that members of the Australian Imperial Force, who have been stationed at Darwin for twelve months or more, and have become ill or have met with an accident, cannot be repatriated in accordance with the provisions of the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act, as can soldiers serving in Malaya and Singapore? If so, will the Minister take into consideration the. fact that the men at Darwin are serving their country in just the same way as are their colleagues at Singapore, Malaya and elsewhere? 
The question which the honorable senator has asked should be set out in writing, and I suggest that it be placed on the notice-paper. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice -  ].. How many persons have been enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Forceas guards? 
What provision is made for their entry into the training scheme if desired? 
Why is not this work performed by the garrison battalions? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers: - 
1,463. 
Members of the Air Force mustered as guards are eligible for remuster to training scheme musterings in exactly the same manner as any other class of personnel, provided they comply with the necessary medical standards, and otherwise possess the required qualifications. 267 members originally enlisted as guards have been remustered to other ground musterings and 57 others are now awaiting remuster. Thirteen guards have been remustered to air-crew, 23 others are awaiting such remuster and 20 further applications are under consideration. 
The Air Force, in common with the other Services, provides its own guards for domestic security within the specific boundaries of its own establishments. Army provides protection outside those boundaries. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has any reduction been made in the subsidy allowed to Tasmanian Steamers Proprietary Limited during the winter running to Tasmania ? 
If so, what reduction has been made, and how much does the company now receive per annum ? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 2. (a) £3,56115s.8d., being pro rata deduction for trips not performed. (b)T he full annual subsidy is £52,604, from which the deduction has been made. 
 by leave  - It is unnecessary to remind honorable senators that for two years we have been at war, but now that the toll of human flesh and blood is made evident by the existence of unfillable gaps in our families and amongst our friends, by the growing numbers of wounded and sick in the hospitals, and by the appearance in the streets of the cities of the long-ago familiar " hospital blues ", there is a commendable and increasing concern on the part of members of this Parliament and others as to whether the Government is alive to the responsibility which lies upon it and is taking adequate measures to meet the situation. 
Therefore, it seems that at this juncture I may render some assistance to honorable senators if I recount, as briefly as I can, something of what has been done, and also of that which is in the mind of the Government in regard to the needs of the immediate future. For this purpose I have prepared a statement, and I propose, with the. indulgence of honorable senators, to present a broad picture of those repatriation activities upon which they are, no doubt, often consulted, and upon which, from time to time, they are good enough to refer to me as the responsible Minister. I would ask honorable senators to understand that, in the use of the word "exsoldier " in this statement, I include sailors, airmen and the members of the nursing service. 
As at the 30th June, 1941, the total sum expended on repatriation was over £290.000,000. which included the following items: - War pensions, £171,569,093; service pensions £1,973,212; medical  treatment, £10,263,064; employment and Vocational training, £7,712,421; soldiers' children educational scheme, £2,232,148; war gratuity, soldier settlement and war service homes,  £91,000,000.  This total disregards the cost of placing and maintaining the forces in the field, and all military expenditure. We may well say that this is a considerable sum to be raised from a population such as that of Australia, but the fact that the taxpayers have made the contribution without complaint may be taken as a striking and eminently satisfactory appreciation of the services to the nation rendered by the men and women who volunteered during the 1914-18 war. 
The development and extension of legislation relating to war pensions since the passing of the War Pensions Act in 1914  is  of considerable interest and indicative of the sympathetic consideration that has been extended by successive governments since that date. War pension rates  in  the original act were provided as follows for soldiers with the rank of private and their dependants, with increased rates for higher ranks. For total incapacity: Member, 40s. a fortnight; wife, 20s. a fortnight; and each child, 10s. a fortnight. The rates for widows and children of deceased soldiers were  40s.  and 10s. a fortnight respectively. Provision was also made for pensions for certain other dependants. 
In  1916 the rates were revised and increased as follows: - For total incapacity: Member, 60s. a fortnight; wife, 30s. a fortnight; first child, 20s. a fortnight; second child, 15s. a fortnight ; and third and subsequent, 10s. a fortnight. The rates payable to widows and other dependants remained unaltered, but those for children of deceased soldiers were increased to the rate  as  provided  in  respect of total incapacity, but the pensions of children both of whose parents are dead were increased to allow of the following scale: - Up to  10  years, £1 a fortnight; ten to fourteen years, £1 5s. a fortnight; fourteen to sixteen years, £1 10s. a fortnight. 
No further amendments occurred for four years, but in 1920 the Government entrusted the administration of war pensions to the Repatriation Commission, and an amendment was inserted in the 
Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act embodying the appropriate legislation. The opportunity was then taken to place the rates of war pensions on a more liberal basis. The minimum rate for total incapacity was set down at £4 4s. a fortnight for a member up to and including the rank of Lieutenant, whilst the rate for a wife was increased from £1 10s. to £1 16s. a fortnight, and those of the children remained as amended in 1916. Special pensions of  £8  a fortnight were provided for  (a)  blinded soldiers; (Z&gt;) totally and permanently incapacitated members, that is, incapacitated for life from earning other than a negligible percentage of the living wage; and (c) in cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, authority was given under this section for the payment of a special pension not exceeding  £8  a fortnight in defined cases. The pension in respect of wives and children and special rate pensioners remained as for the general 100 per centum rate. 
As regards widows, the minimum pension was left as in the 1916 act, but provision was made for the payment of a pension of not less than £4 4s. a fortnight where there were dependent children, and at such other rates, not exceeding £4 4s. a fortnight, as the commission deemed expedient, where the widow had no dependent children. Equivalent benefits by way of war pensions and living allowance were afforded widowed mothers of deceased unmarried soldiers, and in cases of other parents, rates enabling pension to be supplemented to provide adequate means of support were authorized. Where any parent has lost a son as the result of war service, a pension may be granted if at any time such parent is without adequate means of support, and irrespective of whether or not there was dependence upon the deceased son prior to his enlistment. In considering the question of adequate means, the ability of other sons or daughters to contribute to the support of their mother or father is disregarded. The cost of living, when these rates were decided on, was approximately the same as obtained in the first year of the present war, and when the index figure relating to cost of living dropped considerably in the intervening years, no reduction of the rates of pensions of former members of the forces  took place, although, in 1931, at the time of the depression, certain dependants' pensions suffered some reduction. These decreases, however, have in the main, now been restored. 
The next extension of the act was in 1922, when an attendant's allowance of £2 a fortnight was granted to men suffering spinal injury and thus unable to care for themselves. This allowance, of course, was in addition to the special pension of £S a fortnight for the member and normal rates for wife and children. By the tame amendment, the fifth schedule, having reference to specific injuries by way of amputation, &amp;c, was added to the act. This awarded allowances over and above the general pension rate, ranging from 7e. a fortnight in respect of loss of an arm below the elbow or a leg below the knee, to £3 16s. a fortnight for the more severe double amputations. Examples of how these allowances operate are - 

<graphic href="168332194109170_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, attendants' allowances of £4 a fortnight and £2 a fortnight were authorized in appropriate cases. From 1922 onwards, various other forms of allowances were approved in supplementation of certain types of pensions. These included an attendant's allowance of £2 a fortnight for blinded soldiers; an allowance of 15s. a fortnight for soldiers suffering total loss of vision in one eye,; £2 a fortnight for members temporarily totally incapacitated; and an additional 5s. a fortnight for the third and subsequent children, thereby placing all children after the first on an equal basis. 
It is appropriate, and will probably be of considerable interest to honorable senators, that I should relate the avenues of application and appeal available to former members of the forces and their dependants in connexion with war pensions administration. The act confers on a Repatriation Board in each State the authority to grant or refuse a war pension. Against a board's decision, there is the right of appeal to the Repatriation Commission. Until 1929, the commission was the final arbiter, but in that year a very definite variation of policy was adopted, when the Government decided on the appointment of tribunals for the purpose of hearing appeals against adverse decisions of the commission, both in respect of entitlement and assessment. The personnel of the Repatriation Commission and Repatriation Boards consists in each case of three members, all of whom are returned .soldiers, and one of whom is the nominee of returned soldier organizations. The tribunals established were the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal and the War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunal. The Entitlement Tribunal consists of three members, all returned soldiers, the  chairman  of which must have been admitted to practise as a barrister or solicitor of the High Court or of a supreme court of Australia; one member is nominated by soldier organizations, and the third is a government appointee. This tribunal travels throughout the Commonwealth, and the act makes provision for an appellant to be present at the hearing of his appeal, and may also be represented thereat by an advocate other than a legal practitioner. Moreover, certain travelling expenses necessarily incurred in his attendance before the tribunal may be paid to the appellant. The constitution of the Assessment Tribunal is somewhat different, as its function is, in fact, the assessment of the degree of disability suffered as a result of war service. Such a determination must necessarily depend largely upon the medical evidence, hence the personnel of this tribunal comprises a  chairman,  with legal qualifications similar to the  chairman  of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal, who must be the nominee of returned soldier organizations, and two medical members selected from panels of doctors in the respective States, who also are in almost every instance returned soldiers, approved by the Minister. By this means the tribunal can have, and it is so constituted as to have, the services of specialists in their respective spheres available to sit on the tribunal. The  chairman  of the Assessment Tribunal travels throughout the States, but the medical members are selected from a panel of practitioners in each capital city. As in respect of appeals to the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal, travelling expenses are payable to the appellants. 
It will be seen that these tribunals have no relation whatsoever to the repatriation administration, and thus they afford soldier appellants entirely independent avenues of appeal. For purposes of convenience the tribunals function in offices provided by the commission. It may be well if I were to emphasize that the law does not permit of any interference on the part of the Minister of State administering the Repatriation Act with the findings and decisions of these appeal tribunals, nor is it desirable that he should do so. 
Another pleasing feature of our legislation is the absence of any time limit within which a former member of the forces must apply for the acceptance of a condition as being resultant from war service. Even when his case has been adjudicated upon by the three statutory bodies mentioned herein, and he subsequently submits new evidence which has a material bearing on the case, the claim may be re-opened. It is only right to make known, too, that in the collection of evidence in support of an application, the ex-soldier is given every possible assistance by the Repatriation Commission. In fact, where inquiries are necessary in relation to medical treatment, employment, &amp;c, the commission undertakes them, and bears the cost of such investigation. 
With the introduction of the financial emergency legislation in 1931, the Government of the day was constrained to effect certain reductions of the pensions of dependants, but those of the ex-soldiers themselves were unaltered ; and as soon as the financial position permitted, action was taken to bring about appropriate adjustments of the pensions of dependants. In its approach to this vital question, the Government sought the advice and assistance of a special committee of returned soldiers, representing the various soldier organizations, and acted substantially on the recommendations of that committee. 
The act of 1920 provided that a sp:(na rate pension was not payable for any period that the member was maintained in an institution at the public expense. Later, this provision was modified somewhat by the insertion of the words "except for a short period". That phrase was interpreted by the commission first as 28 days, but later as 42 days, and the act was amended in 1935 to allow this extension. 
Several marked advances were incorporated in the amendments of 1934-35. Payment of pension at not less than 100 per centum rate was granted to any exmember suffering incapacity as the result of pulmonary tuberculosis due to war service. This means that although incapacitation through pulmonary tuberculosis may decrease even to a considerable degree, the war pension will continue to be paid at 100 per centum rate. There is little need to enlarge on the generous nature of this provision, and its consequent ease of mind to the recipient, in that he is relieved of anxiety as to any possible reduction of his pension. Section 31a validated by legislation the concession first authorized by the Government in 1925. 
Another important decision is embodied in section 39a. The Government decided to pay pensions to dependants, at rates as in respect of death, where at the time of death the member was in receipt of a special rate pension, and irrespective of the cause of death and its relationship to war service. This concession likewise was made applicable in cases in which pensions were being paid under the first eight items of the fifth schedule to the act - that is, in every case under this schedule in which an ex-member is receiving an allowance of 36s. or more, over and above the general 100 per centum rate. 
Early in 1938 the Repatriation Commission decided to introduce a policy of stabilization of war pensions. It decided that in cases in which the incapacity for which pension was payable was apparently permanent, future reviews would be discontinued. This policy was adopted by the commission in an endeavour to give to the ex-soldiers a permanent sense of security by relieving them of anxiety as to their war pensions in the future, and also to obviate the necessity, and sometimes the inconvenience, of attending for regular medical examination. As the result of the foregoing procedure, approximately 95 per cent. of the war pensions payable in respect of the 1914-18 war have now been stabilized. A pensioner is informed in writing when stabilization is effected, and also that should he at any future date consider that his war-caused incapacity has increased he may apply for a review of his pension, which will be arranged forthwith. 
Before leaving the subject of pensions, I desire to direct attention to a cogent factor, which, in discussion, is often overlooked although it is perhaps one of the most common causes of misunderstanding. War pensions must of necessity be based on the degree of physical damage by injury or disease suffered as the result of war service, and must not be influenced by the economic circumstances of the exsoldier. This governing principle has been followed by almost every country throughout the world, and unless such basis be maintained the whole system would tend to become chaotic. Put in another way, it means that the ex-soldier, having had his war disabilities assessed, and the appropriate treatment and pension arranged for and granted, is then discharged from service and becomes, in effect, an ordinary member of the community. Unfortunately, he is, as such, still heir to the malignant processes of nature and also to the ills which beset the ordinary citizen. For these the Commonwealth Parliament has not yet assumed direct responsibility. Some of us may regret this, but I feelassured that when, in these enlightened days, public opinion brings about the desired improvements of our social services, such difficulties will disappear. It is interesting to record that war pensions being paid in respect of incapacity caused as the result of the war of 1914-18 remain current, even though the ex-member may have re-enlisted and served in the Forces during the present war. It might be as well to state here that this is not applicable to service pensions, in respect of which income from whatever source must be taken into account. As at the 30th June, 1941, war pensions were being paid to 75,767 ex-members of the Forces, 123,787 dependants of incapacitated exmembers of the Forces, and 25,937 dependants of deceased ex-members, with a total annual liability of £7,412,684. 
In 1935 legislation which instituted the payment of service pensions as from January, 1936, was introduced. These pensions constitute a social benefit, especially for ex-members of the Forces. They are granted on one or other of the following grounds :  - 
age; 
permanentunemployability ; 
suffering from pulmonary tuber culosis. 
An ex-member becomes eligible to apply for a service pension on reaching the age of 60 years, provided that he has served in a theatre of war, whilst a female member - a nurse - who has reached the age of 55 years, and either embarked for service abroad, or served abroad, becomes likewise eligible. Under  b  a male member is eligible if he served in a theatre of war and by reason of physical or mental disablement is permanently unemployable, even though such disablement was not the result of war service. The same conditions apply in respect of a. female exmember, except that service abroad need not necessarily have been in a theatre of war. Under  c  an ex-member is eligible if suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, even though such condition is not the result of war service. Furthermore, there is no qualification as to the necessity for service in a theatre of war. In respect of both b and c, the ex-member's wife, if married before the 2nd October, 1941, and children, up to and including four in number, if born prior to the foregoing  date, may also be granted service pensions. On the 30th June, 1941, service pensions were being paid to 8,368 exmembers and 5,713 dependants, with an annual liability of £533,622. As each year passes a 'considerable number of ex-members who served in the 1914-18 war reach the age of eligibility, and thus the annual liability will increase steadily for some years to come. 
For the medical and surgical treatment of soldiers military hospitals were, of course, established in connexion with the last war. These were afterwards taken over by the commission, and in the years which followed the cessation of hostilities the institutions were improved considerably and equipped according to modern hospital standards. The result is that up-to-date general hospitals, sanatoria and clinics are available for the treatment of all war-caused and waraggravated disabilities. On the 31st July last, there were 1,373 soldiers of the last war undergoing in-patient treatment at departmental institutions, and 24,877 attending for out-patient treatment. In addition, treatment was being given to other dominion ex-soldiers and certain Defence personnel ; of these 525 were inpatients, and 686 were attending for out-patient treatment. 
Concomitant with the work of the general hospitals was the essential service rendered by the Repatriation artificial limb ' factories. These factories  aTe  staffed by specially trained artisans, who, being amputees themselves, are able to appreciate the peculiar needs of those requiring artificial and surgical aids. These aids include surgical boots, spinal jackets - in fact, a wide range of appliances which are calculated to assist the man in his calling and recreation. On the subject of the manufacture of artificial limbs, the commission has, moreover, maintained close contact with leading overseas authorities, and it can be said, without fear of challenge, that the articles which are produced in the repatriation factories in Australia are equal to any produced elsewhere. 
As the result of having to undergo a course of medical treatment, the patient may be prevented from following his usual occupation, and in consideration of this, provision exists for the granting of  a  sustenance allowance. The amount .payable is such as will, together with any war pension, bring the patient's allowance up to the equivalent of a full war pension. In the early years following the war of 1914-18 the Government made provision for widows, widowed mothers and orphans of deceased ex-soldiers to receive medical benefits through the medium of the friendly societies. An important part of the activities designed for the more immediate re-establishment of soldiers returning from the war of 1914-18 was the vocational training scheme. The main part of the scheme covered training for trades, those eligible being the ex-soldier who, owing to war disabilities, was unable to follow his pre-war occupation, or who, at the time of enlistment, was under 20 years of age. If preliminary training was necessary, it was given at special schools, vocational training sustenance being paid at rates ranging from 84s. to 160s. a fortnight, according to whether the trainee was single or married, and the number of children in the family. When 40 per cent, efficient, the trainee was placed with an employer who paid the journeyman wage, but was reimbursed 60 per cent, thereof by the Commonwealth. From time to time the trainee's efficiency was reviewed, and as the efficiency of the trainee increased the payment to the employer "was correspondingly reduced. Professional training was provided for the ex-soldier who was qualified to enter a university, and who at the time of enlistment was under the age of twenty years and in a position to undertake the course if assisted by a grant of £150. Professional training was also provided for those who, prior to enlistment, had intended to enter upon a professional course and were not more than 30 years of age at the time of application, or, irrespective of age, had entered upon the course. The assistance granted in these cases was the payment of fees for the course as a gift, and sustenance, up to 42s. a week, for the first academic year. Assistance was also granted to an ex-soldier who, although in employment, was desirous of undergoing a course of training with a view to increasing his efficiency or to qualifying for a better position. Further assistance, namely, sustenance for succeeding academic years, and the 
In pursuance of a Cabinet decision during the financial year 1927-28  ex-soldiers  who, through their war service, were incapacitated to such a degree that their means of locomotion were restricted to cots or wheeled chairs, may be granted an allowance of £10 a month for recreational transport purposes. A similar allowance, but of only £5 a month, may be granted to ex-soldiers who, through the war, have suffered double amputation - one leg above the knee and the other below the knee. As at the end of June. 1941, 167 ex-soldiers were receiving £10 a month, and 29 were receiving £5 a month. The 

 . - by leave - I desire to inform the Senate that on the 29th August, consequent upon the resignation of the Right Honorable R. G. Menzies as Prime Minister, the Honorable A. W. Fadden was commissioned by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral to form a Ministry. 
In addition to his appointment as Prime Minister,  Mr. Fadden  was appointed to the office of Treasurer; and the Right Honorable R. G. Menzies was appointed Minister for Defence Coordination. 
No other change has been made in the portfolios held by Ministers since the Senate adjourned on the 28th August. 
The representation of Senate Ministers in the House of Representatives as it existed when tie Senate adjourned has been varied only to the degree that the Minister for Air  (Mr. McEwen)  instead of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  will represent the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie). 
 by leave -  read acopy of the Ministerial Statement delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  (vide page 297) and moved - 
That the paper be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Collings.)  adjourned. 
During the course of a long statement this afternoon by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  we were told that the fact that members of the fighting forces had received pensions as a result of service in the last war would not prevent them from receiving pensions or sustenance on their return from the present war. I bring to the notice of the Senate the case of Sapper J.Clarke, No. NX9187, who, on his return to Australia recently, was denied a pension. He sought re-employment in the Railways Department of New South Wales and was informed that as he had left that service without permission when he enlisted, he had forfeited the right to return to his old job. He then approached the Repatriation Commission, reported that he could not obtain reinstatement in his former position, and applied for sustenance, but his application was rejected on the ground that he had received a pension in connexion with his service in the last war. Yet the Minister has made a statement in the Senate to-day which is pure political propaganda. When Clarke enlisted for service in the present war he was examined by military doctors and was declared to be medically fit. It has now been discovered by means of an X-ray photograph that he is suffering, not from a duodenal ulcer, but from chronic appendicitis. Clarke first underwent treatment at a field hospital for dyspepsia, was later treated on a hospital ship for the same complaint, and for that reason was discharged. However, the doctors now say that he is suffering from chronic appendicitis which he has had for three years. What was amiss with the earlier examinations made from the time of his enlistment until he was discharged that they did not disclose that appendicitis was the ailment from which he was suffering? This is not an isolated case. I was present at a call-up of unemployed recently when men were being selected for defence work. One of the men in attendance, who certainly should have been in hospital, had served for four years in the last war and for fifteen months in the present war. The best job that this man was offered was pick-and-shovel work. Such treatment of returned soldiers nauseates me. I am ashamed that although returned men are treated in this disgraceful way, the Minister tells the world that all is well with them. 
Such a statement is so much piffle, and the public will not be prepared to accept it. 
I also direct the attention of the Senate to the case of another returned soldier, J. T. Ashcroft, whose number is NX2912. This man served for a year and 95 days in the Army and for 343 days was on active service. He was discharged on the ground that he was medically unfit. He had three scars as the result of war injuries, and was discharged on account of the state of his heart. On his return to Australia he secured a job in the manufacture of aircraft parts, but he was astounded when he received the following letter from the Area Officer at Bankstown: - 53d Area, 
Kitchener-parade, Bankstown. 12th September, 1941. 
T. Ashcroft, 26 Avoca-street, Bankstown. 
Advice received from District Records states that you have been discharged from the Army and that you are living within this Area. 
Notwithstanding your Army service you are still obliged under the Defence Act to undergo universal training if medically fit. 
Please complete the enclosed AA Form 3a and return it to this office. In due course you will be called up for medical examination and any reason for exemption that you may have will then be dealt with. 
This man was injured at Tobruk, but if he and others who have served overseas are to be insulted on their return from active service by being told that they must enter a Militia camp in order to undergo universal military training, there is something wrong with the military authorities. Suchtreatment will not encourage men to join the Australian Imperial Force. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Army to see that a circular containing instructions that men who have served overseas shall not be called up for Militia duty in Australia is sent to every Area Officer. Men who served abroad in the last war were not called upon to enter camp on their return to Australia and I do not know why that should be done now. Instead of insulting men who have fought for their country the Government should do something for them. 
To-day, a question was asked as to the authority of the Government to conscript 
Australians for military service. I desire ro know on whose authority men are told that they will have to remain in camp for the duration of the war. The Government was not sincere when it said that there would be no conscription in Australia, because by subtle means it is endeavouring to introduce conscription. 
It did. The exPrime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  said that there would be no conscription, as did many other members of his Cabinet. 
There is conscription for service in Australia. 
The Government has not the courage openly to advocate conscription, but it is using subtle means to achieve its purpose. Men are told that it would be better to go to the Middle East or to Malaya than to remain in camp in Australia for the remainder of the war. It is all very well for the Minister to smile, but letters which I receive indicate clearly that the people resent what the Government is doing. I have in mind the case of a family which has one son at the war. Another son at home is the main support of his parents. 
In some such instances, boys are taken from their positions as tradesmen and forced into camp for 90 days and told that they may have to remain there for the duration of the war. 
Yesterday, I was interviewed by a lady from Earlwood whose son is in the position which I have mentioned.  His  application for exemption was refused. The matter is now with the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  for attention. Such actions savour of Hitlerism and are not in the best interests of democracy. The Govern ment will have to alter its policy, or there will be widespread discontent. At first, men were called up to undergo training in militia camps for a period of 90 days. Later, they were told that they would be called up for a further 90 days' training three months after the termination of the first period. In such circumstances discontent and friction is unavoidable. The Government has adopted a form of economic conscription. I ask it to act sanely and not to attempt to introduce conscription by means of a trick. If I were a recruiting officer, I would probably regard such tactics as a means of obtaining recruits, but I am not a recruiting officer. I bad too raw a deal in the last war. 
I do not want a repetition of what occurred in the war of 1914-18. I was not a colonel in that war. The colonel of the regiment to which I belonged was cashiered for cowardice. If men are denied sustenance for themselves and their wives and children, the Government will not get the best out of the Australian people. Nor will the war effort be furthered if men who have seen active service overseas are called up for compulsory military training when invalided home. 
I take this opportunity to place before the Senate a case similar to those referred to by  Senator Amour.  It relates to  Mrs. V.  Park, of Kyogle, whose husband is a prisoner of war. On the 24th July last the Kyogle branch of the Australian Labour party suggested that as she was in financial difficulties the Government might consider paying the sum of £4 14s. 6d., being the balance of confinement expenses incurred at the Kyogle hospital. The doctor who attended her charged only a nominal sum for his services, but this woman, after paying about £4 hospital expenses, still owes £4 14s. 6d.  Her  total income is  £2  2s. a week, out of which she has to pay £1 a week for accommodation. Prior to his enlistment  Mr. Park  contributed ls. a week to the hospital, in consideration of which payment both -he and his wife were entitled to free hospital treatment, but since he left Australia with the Australian Imperial Force his wife has been unable to -continue the payments. On the 5th August this case was placed before the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  on behalf of  Mrs. Park,  with a view to the Government making a statement as to its policy in similar cases. The Minister replied on the 2lst August - 
Further to your representations of the 5th August, 1941, in forwarding a letter from  Mr. D.  Holmes, honorary secretary, Kyogle Branch, Australian Labour party, concerning the case of  Mrs. V.  Park of Kyogle, I desire to inform you that the Department of the Army provides members of the Australian Imperial Force with complete free medical, hospital and dental attention, and grants sick leave on full pay and allowances during periods of. incapacity, until return to duty or discharge as permanently unfit for service. 
It is not considered, however, that the Army should accept responsibility for medical and hospital treatment .required by dependants of members of the Australian Imperial Force. 
Apparently, the official view is that people in such circumstances must depend on charity in order to obtain necessary medical treatment. The case of  Mrs. Park  can be added to the Dishonour Roll of the Government. It provides the Opposition with another reason for voting the present Government out of office at the first opportunity. Kyogle has a wonderful record in this war. Out of about 700 men of military age over 400 have enlisted. The case of  Mrs. Park  is known throughout the district, and it is not likely to stimulate recruiting. The people believe that the Government has an obligation in such cases. This woman's husband has played his part. In his absence his wife required medical attention and incurred hospital and other expenses which she cannot meet. The Minister, however, flatly refuses to consider the case, and merely states that members of the Forces are looked after, but that in the case of dependants no obligation is accepted. Possibly 90 per cent of the sick dependants of soldiers serving in the Forces overseas are capable  of bearing their own medical expenses; but that is all the more reason why a case such as that which I have brought to notice should be sympathetically considered. It is the bounden duty of the Government to assist necessitous dependants of soldiers so that they may not be forced to depend on the charity of their neighbours or of local institutions. It is a disgrace to the Government that the dependants of prisoners of war or the widows of deceased members of the Forces should be compelled to live in the circumstances inwhich this unfortunate woman in Kyogle exists to-day while members of the Government talk glibly about a " total war effort ". The Government should formulate a policy which will ensure that there is no repetition of cases of that kind. 
.- I desire to know from the Minister representing the Postmaster-General if consideration will be given to the question of raising the status of semi-official postmasters to that of official postmasters. I understand that, in the whole of the Commonwealth, only 135 persons would be affected. The majority of them are returned, .soldiers some of whom have been temporarily employed in that capacity for over twenty years. Their duties embrace the selling of stamps of all kinds, supplying and cashing postal notes, issuing and cashing money orders, the payment of war pensions, military and air force allotments, old-age and invalid pensions and child endowment, and the receipt of moneys for war service homes, wireless licences and telephone accounts. In addition, semi-official postmasters have to carry out other duties during election and military campaigns. Weekly and monthly returns have to be prepared and forwarded to the department's head office. All of this entails clerical work and minute accuracy. Above all, a temporary official must be honest. In one Melbourne suburban office, nearly £100,000 was received and paid over the counter in one year. In some country post offices, the annual turnover is approximately £50,000. These returned soldier postmasters have served the department just as loyally as they served the nation in the Great War. Their position is insecure because of the possibility of their replacement by soldiers returning from the present war. They are up against a wall, a dead end to their ambition. If the  Postmaster-General  will grade semi-official returned soldier postmasters as official postmasters where the volume of business warrants such a change, the present holders of those positions will come under the scope of section 84 (9) of the Commonwealth Public Service Act and become eligible for permanent rank with all the stability appertaining thereto. In urging consideration for these temporary semi-official returned soldier postmasters, I am not confusing them with non-official postmasters who are paid at scale rates determined in accordance with the business transacted at their offices. I ask the Minister to bring this matter to the notice of the Postmaster-General. 
On three former occasions, I have raised the question of young men called up for service under the Defence Act being compelled to travel long dis.tances to undergo preliminary medical examination without being paid compensation for the possible loss of wages involved. Those particularly affected by this procedure are the young men engaged in the timber and mining industries. It does not necessarily follow that all of them are accepted for service. I should like some indication as to Government policy in regard to this matter. It is distinctly unfair that these men should be penalized because they reside at a distance from centres where medical examinations are conducted. I owe a duty to my constituents as a member of this Parliament, and I am surely entitled to know whether the Government proposes to recompense young men for time lost in that way. 
I rise to protest against the procedure adopted this afternoon with respect to the comprehensive statement read by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  outlining the repatriation proposals of the Government. No opportunity has been afforded to honorable senators to discuss it. It is true that the subject may be debated when the budget comes before us, but only incidentally, and not as fully as its importance deserves. This subject is of major importance. On future occasions when a Minister asks leave to make a statement in respect of any important matter, without giving an opportunity to honorable senators to debate it, I shall feel inclined to exercise my right of refusal. I have no objection to statements of minor importance being read by Ministers. 
To-day, however, we were given the outline of &amp; repatriation scheme, which, as I have said, is of major importance to returned soldiers. 
The point 1 make is that if the scheme be not discussed on its merits, the impression may go abroad that we on this side of the Senate acquiesce in it. The statement read by the Minister will appear in  Hansard  without any answer from members on this side of the chamber; but it will not be known to those who ma; criticize us that we were not given an opportunity to debate it. This subject should not be left for discussion during the budget debate; it should be discussed separately. If it be not discussed, I assure the Government that where it is in conflict with what is considered to be fit and proper by the returned soldiers and others who will support their claims, the Government is unnecessarily making a rod for its own back. When the Senate, which meets only on rare occasions, is summoned, we should be given an opportunity to discuss important papers tabled by Ministers. When the business of the Senate is handled in this way, I sometimes wonder how honorable senators can justify their presence here. I am particularly interested in this matter because, as honorable senators will recall, I have already on two occasions drawn the attention of the Minister to the case of  Mrs. F.  M. Simmons, of 12 Sixth-street, Parkdale, Victoria, the widow of a returned digger who volunteered and was accepted for home service, but who, in the course of bis duty, died. Both the soldier and his wife were in receipt of a pension, and they managed to get on fairly well; but when her husband died,  Mrs.  Simmons  found it impossible to live on her paltry pension of 4s. 6d. a week. Granted that the Minister was sympathetically disposed towards her, and was prepared to increase the rate of her pension, there is a section in the Repatriation Act which makes the Commission a law unto itself. It can decide these cases independently of the Government or the Minister. I know of no other act giving a board or a commission such wide powers. 
But they do  not  deal with such an important subject as that which we are now considering. There is no appeal from the decisions of cbe Repatriation Commission. On the last occasion on which I dealt with this matter, I received a communication from the Minister for Repatriation  stating  that be had forwarded my letter to the Minister for Social Services  (Sir Frederick Stewart)  . Subsequently, the Minister for Repatriation wrote to me enclosing for ray information the reply of the Minister for Social Services to the representations I had made. That letter read - 
I acknowledge your letter of the 3rd July, regarding the case of  Mrs. F.  M. Simmons, of 1.2 Sixth-street,  Parkdale, Victoria. 
If  Mrs. Simmons  is qualified by age or infirmity for an old-age or invalid pension, I would be pleased to take up the matter. There is no evidence on the files to indicate whether she has these qualifications. Failing such qualifications there is no federal provision for social relief which is really a matter for the State governments. 
To say the least of it, that letter is an insult to the widow of a returned digger. 
The Minister may be a very poor judge in matters of that kind. I ask the Minister what ho would think if he knew that his widow would be expected to live on 4s. 6d. a week, and be told, on seeking relief, that if she were qualified by age or infirmity she would be eligible for the old-age or invalid pension. Would he not regard such a letter as an insult? Because the Minister and those associated with him are not likely to leave dependants in that position, they consider that this woman should submit to 'the indignities placed upon her without protest. The Government should be ashamed of itself, and the Minister should be ashamed of himself for supporting it. 
I am not distorting the facts. The facts are that this woman is the widow of a returned digger, and she is expected by the Government to subsist on 4s. 6d. a week. Representations have been made to the honorable senator, as Minister for Repatriation, and the Government, that some relief be given to her either through the repatriation legislation or in some other way; but the Government does not intend to give relief to her, unless she can qualify for the old-age pension or for the invalid pension. Such an attitude is an insult to this woman who has spent the best part of her life rearing a family, members of which have served in the Australian Imperial Force. 
I repeat that if the Minister's statement could have been discussed as it should have been, honorable senators would have been given the opportunity to direct attention to that provision of the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act which gives to the commission the power to which I refer. I could cite quite a number of eases of widows of returned diggers whose repatriation pensions are inadequate for their subsistence. After rearing families, and losing their husbands, these women are now expected to do the dirty work in offices and kitchens, or somewhere else, for a few paltry shillings a week. Ministers, of course, have their ministerial allowance, plus travelling and many other allowances, and to them the world does not seem so dark and hopeless as it is to these unfortunate widows who are expected to live on 4s. 6d. a week. Yet, when I explain a case, I am challenged by the Minister with distorting the facts. Had an opportunity been afforded to honorable senators to discuss the Minister's statement on its merits, I should not have raised this case at this juncture. I protest emphatically against the action of the Minister in refusing honorable senators such an opportunity. I say to Ministers generally that I am prepared at all times to meet their convenience 
Provided that they reciprocate. In future shall object to leave being granted to any Minister to make a statement of major importance unless an opportunity be given to honorable senators to discuss it. 
I was not in the chamber when  Senator 
Amour commenced his speech. The statement which I made this afternoon was not intended to he propaganda, although, incidentally, it must be so; it is spreading information, and very good Information. It is history made by not merely this Government but by successive governments since 1914; and a Labour government had a really big share in framing that legislation. I made my statement this afternoon because there is an increasing desire on the part of honorable senators, and members generally, to know the basis on which our repatriation business is transacted. I think that I presented a fair picture of that aspect this afternoon. I did not invite discussion on the paper by moving that it be printed. That discussion will come later, because amending legislation must be introduced ; and if honorable senators generally are to be enabled to view that legislation in its proper perspective, they must have the information which I gave them this afternoon. 
Parliament is the place where complaints by members may be legitimately made. I repeat the word " legitimately". I have had occasion to ask honorable senators on, not only the opposite side, but also this side of the chamber, if they would be good enough to bring individual cases to my notice. As Minister, it is my job to remedy ills that are noted. However, an honorable gentleman - I shall not use the plural - may rise in his place in this Parliament and state a case, and add that he knows of hundreds of similar cases. I write to him inviting him to bring such cases to my notice, but I receive no reply. I note the cases of complaints recorded in  Hansard  and write to those who raise them, but I receive no acknowledgment of my letters. Usually, in such matters, I receive the utmost courtesy from honorable senators opposite, and I appreciate their courtesy very much. However, when I go to the trouble to investigate cases raised by certain honorable senators and inform them of the facts, I naturally expect some acknowledgment from those to whom I supply such information.  Senator Amour  has views of his own on repatriation. He is the one member of this Parliament who takes no pride in the service which he was able to render to this country some years ago; and the absence of such pride does not help him in dealing with people who not only have rendered good service to this country but also take a pride in what they did. I repeat that I made my statement this afternoon with a view to helping honorable senators. I have no doubt that the information I gave will prove helpful to them when our repatriation legislation comes under review. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have before me a number of very interesting publications dealing mainly with the war, and they are profusely illustrated. Will the Minister for Information inform the Senate whether these have been distributed by his department, and to whom, besides members of Parliament, they have been distributed? 
SenatorFOLL. - The pamphlets have been issued by the British Department of Information and a large number of them have been sent to Australia. They have been distributed by my department on behalf of the British Department of Information. I cannot give, offhand, the names of those to whom they have been sent, but I can say that a large number of persons, other than 'members of Parliament, have received them. 
Will the Minister for Information inform the Senate as to who accompanied him on his recent trip to the Netherlands East Indies and Malaya, what was the total cost of the. trip, what was its object, and whether any benefit accrued from it? 
I was accompanied by representatives of various Australian newspapers, who had been invited to visit the Netherlands East Indies and Malaya by the Governments of the Netherlands East Indies and the Straits Settlement. I cannot inform the honorable senator as to the cost of the trip, because, being a guest, I was not so discourteous as to ask our hosts what expenditure had been incurred in connexion with the visit. The invitation was extended to the whole party by the Governments of the countries visited, and I am hopeful that before long the Commonwealth Government will extend an invitation to representatives of our friends and allies in that part of the world to visit Australia. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Air aware that a number of airmen have received serious injuries as a result of crashes in machines in which they have been flying, andhave lain between life and death for some weeks without their next-of-kin being notified? Will the Minister take steps to sec that in such eases the nextofkin are immediately informed? 
The custom of the Department of Air is to notify the nextofkin as quickly as possible when such accidents occur. If the honorable senator will bring special cases to my notice I shall undertake to place them immediately before my colleague the Minister for Air, so that they may be investigated. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That leave of absence for one month be granted to  Senator E.  B. Johnston on account of ill health. 
I have received a letter from  Senator Johnston,  and also the following certificate from  Dr. Basil  Williams, of Macquarie-street, Sydney, which  Senator Johnston  desires me to read to the Senate - 
This is to certify that SenatorE. B. Johnston is suffering from acute bronchitis and is advised to rest for a month completely, and is unfit to attend parliamentary duties for this period. 
I was travelling with  Senator Johnston  in Tasmania recently in connexion with the work of the Joint Committee on Rural Industries when he was taken rather seriously ill through a bronchial cold. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  Senator Ashley  an intimation that he desires to move the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "The delay of the Government in granting permission to 

 Mr. D. A. Craig to establish a refinery for the treatment of crude oil, petrol and bitumen 
.- I move- 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till to-morrow at 10 a.m. 
Is the motion supported ? 

 Four honorable senators having risen in support of the motion, 

The establishment of an oil refinery in Australia by this company would be of enormous assistance to both primary and secondary industries, particularly in view of the fact that petrol rationing is in operation. I do not say that some form of petrol rationing was not necessary, but I do not agree with the ruleofthumb methods which have .been adopted. Almost daily I receive complaints - and I have no doubt other honorable senators do also - of interference with industry and essential services because of inadequate petrol supplies. I have brought a number of cases of hardship before the Minister concerned, and am glad to know that many of them have been rectified. One case was that of a carrier who was carting silica, which is an essential ingredient in the production of steel. This man's supply of petrol had been so reduced that he would have been compelled to relinquish his contract had not his ration been increased. Only this week I received a complaint from a man who was carting pit timber for use in mining operations, and I was able to have his claim adjusted. These, however, are only a few of the many complaints that I have received. Petrol rationing has caused great inconvenience to men on the land situated 20 or 30 miles from a town. In some instances they do not get sufficient petrol to ena'ble them to obtain necessary supplies. To-day, as the result of the war, a number of small companies are establishing their own petrol-producing plants. Last week I visited one such plant at Mittagong, involving the use of high temperature carbonization, which has been started by Peters American Delicacy Company Limited. In various parts of New South Wales and other companies are operating, but almost every conceivable obstacle has been placed in their way. I do not blame the Commonwealth Government for all the difficul ties that have been encountered for the State Government must accept its share of responsibility for what has taken place. Surely people who are pioneering the production of fuel oil in Australia should be helped rather than hindered. The Mittagong company to which I have referred pays a royalty of  1s. 9d. a ton of shale to the owners of the land on which it is operating, and a similar royalty to the lessee of the land. It also pays 4d. a gallon to the owner of the process which it is using, and, in addition, it has to pay 4d. a gallon excise to the Commonwealth Government. That tax should he abolished. That shale being used at Mittagong is of somewhat inferior quality, and will produce only about 40 gallons of oil to the ton. In this country there are enormous deposits of shale, and the people who are prepared to pioneer the production of oil from shale should be given every encouragement, as, should their efforts prove successful, the petrol obtained would be of great value to both primary and secondary industries, to say nothing of its value in the event of Australia being blockaded by an enemy. The importance of the establishment of a central refinery in New South "Wales can scarcely he overestimated. I mention New South Wales because in that State and in Tasmania are the largest shale deposits in Australia. The absence of a 'central refinery makes it necessary for every company engaged in the production of petrol from shale to establish its own distillery at a cost probably as great, or even greater, than that of the plant required for the treatment of crude oil. The pioneers of this industry deserve better treatment than has so farbeen given to them. 
Since the commencement of the war the price of bitumen has increased from about £7 a ton to approximately £15 a ton. 
Under normal conditions the department would welcome the establishment of an industry for refining bitumen in Australia, provided no increase in cost resulted therefrom and provided also that regular supplies and deliveries of the resulting product of a quality suitable for road purposes could be assured. 
In the present emergency the department regards the establishment in Australia of an industry of the nature in question as a matter calling for careful consideration from the point of view of national war-time policy. 
The department views with concern the increases which have taken place in the price of bitumen. In 1935-36 the price was £5 per ton. Immediately prior to the outbreak of war it had risen to about £9 per ton and since then it has steadily increased to £12 10s. per ton. 
In giving evidence in favour of tariff assistance another witness stated :  - 
It is considered that the price of £6 10s. could be maintained in the face of reduced prices for products other than bitumen obtained in the refining process, as increased output would enable prices to be kept down. 
In answer to the interjections of the Leader of the Senate I can cite no higher authority than the Tariff Board. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I regret that this matter has been brought up in the Senate to-day because, as honorable senators are aware, it is now under the consideration of Cabinet, and thus, at this juncture, I am unable to make as full and complete a reply to the honorable senator as I should like.  Mr. Craig  made his application for protection of bitumen manufactured in this country, in the first place, to the Tariff Board. That was before the war. I can well imagine that in peace-time such an industry would probably have been very well worth fostering. In any case, in normal times, it would be a matter almost entirely for the determination of the Tariff Board, because over a long period of years governments have established the practice of accepting the recommendations of that board on matters of this kind which are referred to it for investigation. Unfortunately, however, we have since become involved in war, and what in peace-time may have seemed to be a very desirable industry, must now be examined from an entirely different angle. Further, with the progress of the war, a considerable change has taken place in the attitude of the Government towards the establishment of industries generally. That, of course, is due to the fact that, apart altogether from the economics of a project, we must now decide whether or not it is necessary in order to make our war effort as a "whole more effective. Consequently, an entirely new set of conditions has arisen since this application was first referred to the Tariff Board. We are gradually, though not too gradually, increasing our war effort. Indeed, some competent people have said that, in view of our limited resources, we are working with surprising rapidity. One of the responsibilities with which this Government is charged is to decide first of all whether we are capable of maintaining at peace-time level many of the industries which have been established in time of peace. Then, we have to decide what industries that we now lack are necessary for the full development of our war effort. It is on that basis, in a general way, that the question of establishing the bitumen industry in Australia has to be considered. The honorable senator mentioned certain figures in regard to bitumen. Of course those figures were submitted before high costs were incurred owing to increased transport and other charges. I do not think that the honorable senator himself would suggest that the company could operate on the costs originally submitted to the Tariff Board. He must recognize, as I am sure the promoters of this company do, that owing to the large increase of the costs of raw material, whatever manufacturing costs might be, the price of the resultant product must be very substantially increased. 
Would not the Tariff Board take that into consideration at the time? 
I am sure thai the Tariff Board took into consideration all evidence submitted to it, but unfortunately this is a progressive matter, and what may be entirely correct at one point. may change very rapidly as the war proceeds. It is well known that freight charges, insurance rates, and other such costs are continually increasing as the difficulty in obtaining shipping space becomes more acute. Consequently, it cannot be suggested that bitumen produced to-day could be sold at the price originally submitted to the Tariff Board. Another point which we must consider is that the proposition is based on the assumption that the raw material would be obtained from the United States of America. That, of course, would involve us in dollar exchange liability, whereas a great proportion of the bitumen brought into this country recently was obtained from sterling countries, thus avoiding increased dollar exchange commitments. Another factor which is of some importance is that considerably less bitumen is now being used than was used in peace-time. 
It is not a question of obtaining the material, but of developing only the roads and highways required for strategic purposes. The normal peace-time roadmaking programme has been abandoned, and consequently the large quantities of bitumen previously required are not now necessary. 
SenatorFraser. - That is not altogether correct- 
I suggest that it is a fact. Since this matter has been allied with one particular person, the Senate is entitled to know something about that person whose interests have been advocated so strongly by  Senator Ashley. 
The honorable senator mentioned  Mr. Craig  by name. 
That is just what I am saying. It is well that the Senate should be informed in regard to the proposition made by that person. When  Mr. Craig,  in collaboration with  Mr. Watson,  made an application for permission to form a company, he claimed that he had a tie-up with a certain Californian company for the sup ply of raw material. He laid great stress on the necessity for such a tie-up, and suggested that a company would be greatly handicapped in this country without some security in regard to the supply of raw material. Unfortunately for  Mr. Craig,  the tie-up which he had at the time of his application has been discontinued. 
I am just giving the facts, and in this case one fact is that  Mr. Craig  no longer has a tie-up with that company. 
That may be the cause, but the fact remains that  Mr. Craig  does not now have that tie-up. Secondly,  Mr. Craig  claimed that he also had a tie-up with another company named the Signal Oil Company, and I understand that that arrangement also has been departed from. It can be seen, therefore, that the advantageous position which  Mr. Craig  claimed to be in when his application was first made no longer exists. Furthermore, it is well that the Senate should know the type of prospectus which was submitted to the Capital Issues Advisory Board along with the application. The suggestion was that it should be a company of 390,000 shares of £1, which would be offered to the public, and 200,000 deferred shares of1s. Obviously that suggestion would not appeal to a competent Capital Issues Advisory Board. 
Whatever alteration has since been made, that was the original proposition. I suggest that the proposal savours very much of company flotation by promoters who are not concerned in the national interest, but rather are anxious to get a rake-off for themselves. Strong objection was taken to that aspect of the matter. The honorable senator claims that the proposal has been varied, but I have no information in that regard. I know that  Mr. Craig  was written to and asked to put up a new proposal, but I was informed to-day by my officers that no other proposal has been received from him. Whatever the facts' may be in that connexion, the conditions which I have outlined were contained in the original proposal, and it was in these circumstances that the Capital Issues Advisory Board refused the application in November of last year.  Mr. Craig  was not prepared to accept that refusal, and he then applied to the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  Since then, a good deal of discussion has taken place in respect, to this matter but, owing to the changed conditions in which we find ourselves in this country, what may have been desirable in peace-time may very well be regarded as completely undesirable in war-time. 
As I mentioned to the Senate earlier, a decision has not yet been reached. 
The board made a decision on the prospectus submitted with the application. I know from my experience in connexion with the establishment of munitions factories that, during this critical period, many factors occur which' cannot be ignored. Owing to the extreme urgency of the situation and the continued drain on our resources, it is not possible for us to establish many factories which in peace-time might be considered desirable. For instance, the company which it was proposed to float would require a great deal of plant and we should have to look very carefully into our material and engineering resources to ascertain whether, in view of our more urgent munitions requirements, we could allow such plant to be made available. I have in mind a project which was only recently considered by the Government, and which it had to turn down completely on the score that it could not reduce- productive capacity for the manufacture of the necessary plant because the available man-power was needed for the production of munitions. Honorable senators will realize that the Government has a considerable number of projects in view, including its shipbuilding programme, which is throwing on our engineering resources a great strain, which we are trying to relieve by the expenditure of large sums of money in setting up government factories. I repeat that the matter raised this afternoon is still under the consideration of the Government. I have endeavoured to indicate to honorable senators some of the factors which must receive serious consideration before a final decision can be reached. 
.-I listened with interest to the speech by the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride),  and agree that the circumstances in regard to this application are substantially as has been stated by him. When it was represented to  Mr. Craig  that the original prospectus provided for the issue of 200,000 shares at1s. each, he said that that could be completely eliminated, because he was anxious to get on with the work. The Capital Issues Advisory Board has on three occasions authorized the issue of deferred shares by other companies. Craig had a connexion with two oil companies in the United States of America and on three trips to America he expended £5,000. One of his engineers, when on his way back to Australia, travelled with  Sir Norman  Brookes of. Melbourne, and then an application was made by the group with which  Sir Norman  Brookes was associated in order to " crib " Craig's oil supply. Another application then had to be made, and, when it went, before the Capital Issues Advisory Board, there was also an application by  Sir Bertram  Stevens, of New South Wales, who represented a group which 1 contend purloined Craig's brain and organizing ability by taking from him his oil connexion. In certain correspondence which I shall give to the Minister, there is a statement in a letter written to the Signal Oil Company, in which that company was told " not to waste its time with Craig, because he had no political pull ". The Minister will find something on the file to substantiate my remarks. 
I am suggesting that, if there had not been some intervention, the other company would probably have got away with Craig's proposition. 
Negotiations have been in progress for nineteen months, and practically every member of the Cabinet has had the matter placed before him. On three occasions, Craig was in a position to carry out his project, but under the law as it stands, a new company cannot be launched unless its formation is authorized by the Capital Issues Advisory Board.. With that legislation I am in entire agreement, but I suggest that muddling has occurred in connexion with this case during the last nineteen months. 
It is claimed that Craig's proposition is economically sound. Ordinarily, the policy of this Government has been to give effect to recommendations of the Tariff Board. The fact that the board reported in favour of the proposal is one reason why the Government should grant the company's application. Another strong reason is that oil tankers are not readily available. Assuming that the application is granted,  Mr. Craig  will have to leave immediately for the United States of America, and he could do nothing in the matter unless a supply of tankers was assured. I suggest that Craig, not the Government, must accept all responsibility in regard to tankers. I have made at least five attempts to see the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  in regard to this matter, and I protest against the great difficulty which private members have experienced in interviewing the heads of rais and other governments. The  Clerk  of the Senate typed a memorandum which was sent to the ex-Prime Minister, seeking permission for me to interview him for five minutes, but five months elapsed before I was able to have a word with him. Ministers should see that their officers are instructed that senators and members at least should have priority of access to members of the Cabinet. The ex-Prime Minister undertook to consider this matter carefully. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  telegraphed to me yesterday as follows: - 
Have perused file. Will submit application to my Cabinet to-morrow. 
When Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited sought permission to increase its capital to £25,000,000, the Prime Minister, who was then Treasurer, lauded the efforts of that company in being able to enlarge its capital to that enormous amount, but, when  Mr. Craig  wished to do something on a much smaller scale, every possible obstacle was placed in his way. Despite the war, there is urgent necessity for the establishment in New South Wales of the proposed cil refinery.  Senator Spicer  knows that, with the discovery of oil in Gippsland, a refinery will be required there. 
No.  Mr. Craig's  proposal was to bring crude oil from America, and refine it in Australia. There is every necessity for the establishment of the industry. 
I contend that  Mr. Craig's  proposal is economically sound. Crude oil could be obtained from America and refined in Australia, and the petrol that would be produced is badly needed in this country. The refinery could be adapted for the treatment of oil from the various oil shale fields in New South Wales. Therefore, the whole case in favour of the proposal is sound. It is regrettable that the matter has been bandied from board to board, from minister to minister, and even from Cabinet to Cabinet. There has been such a game of battledore and shuttlecock that it is not surprising that the applicant is sore over the matter. 
No.  His  application has never been withdrawn at any time, and the file of the Capital Issues Advisory Board should be examined to prove the correctness of my statement. The applicant persists in his original application, although the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  suggested that he should submit a new one. 
To the best of my knowledge, he has supplied all information that has been demanded. 
I have seen a draft of his reply, and am convinced that this protest to-day is justified. I hope that a decision will soon be arrived at. 
SenatorFRASER (Western Australia) [4.6]. - This discussion to-day has given to honorable senators an opportunity to see the inner workings of the Capital Issues Advisory Board and also to discuss the report of the Tariff Board which inquired into the position of the proposed company. In the light of that report, which is dated the 8th May last, and of what  Senator Keane  has said this afternoon, it would appear that the Government has attached more importance to the evidence of the major oil companies than to the statements made by the applicants. 
SenatorFRASER. - If that be the only reason for refusing the application, why the delay in arriving at a decision? Is it necessary to hold up the application for several months? The reasons for not granting the application are based on evidence submitted by the oil companies. The Minister referred to deferred shares in the proposed company. If the Government were disposed to refuse the proposed company's application because of some difficulty in connexion with its deferred shares, the Government could have asked it to confine itself to certain requirements before the application was granted. 
Minister also referred to the necessity for saving dollar exchange, but what has the Tariff Board to say on that subject ? The following extract from the board's report hardly bears out the Minister's statement :  - 
It is very doubtful whether the local production of bitumen would effect any saving in non-sterling exchange. The present tendency is for increasing proportions of bitumen to be imported from sterling sources and the indications are that any saving in non-sterling exchange now used for the purchase of bitumen would be counterbalanced, if not exceeded, by the non-sterling exchange needed for the purchase of crude oil. 
That statement does not contain any reason for not complying with the company's application. 
Reference has already been made herein to a suggestion on behalf of the Shell Company of Australia Limited that it should be left to the cartel companies to decide when a refinery or refineries for the production of bitumen in Australia should be established and that outsiders should not be permitted to enter the business. The Board has not taken any cognizance of the suggestion in its consideration of this question, nor does it offer any comment thereon. It regards the matter a.' one of policy for determination by the  Government. 
I have a suspicion that the evidence tendered by the major oil companies isthe reason for the delay in coming to a decision. 
.- I should not have risen to participate in this debate were it not that  Senator Ashley,  in referring to the prices of petrol since the outbreak of Avar, made statements which are demonstrably false. In days like these, it is undesirable that an honorable senator, or indeed any person, should endeavour to create in the public mind the impression that large companies - oil companies and others - are making profits out of the war, which, in fact, they are not making.  Senator Ashley  said that since the outbreak of war the price of petrol had risen by 8d. a gallon. He conceded . that 4d. of that increase represented additional duties, but he endeavoured to have the Senate believe that a big proportion of the other 4d. found its way into the pockets of the petrol companies in the form of profits. The Joint Committee on Profits, of which I am the  chairman,  called before it the Prices Commissioner, who gave evidence on this very matter. In view of what has been said here to-day I propose to read to the Senate from the report of his evidence. 
He appeared before the committee on the 5th August last. 
I do not think so. 
I am dealing with this matter as on the 5th August last. 
Giving evidence before the committee, the Prices Commissioner said - 
The price of petrol has risen by8d. since the outbreak of war. Of that amount, 4d. is additional duty which no one gets. I was astonished to read a statement by a responsible man that the8d. went to the oil companies. 
I am reading from the evidence submitted by the Prices Commissioner who evidently had come across a statement as irresponsible as some of those which the honorable senator has made in this chamber to-day. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown).  - Strictly speaking there is not any point of order, but as  Senator Ashley  has objected to certain statements made by  Senator Spicer,  the remarks should be withdrawn. 
I had no intention to be personally offensive to any honorable senator, and if  Senator Ashley  objects to what I have said, I am willing to withdraw the remark. The Prices Commissioner went on to say - 
The other 4d. is due to increased landed costs in the main, but not altogether. When I refer to landed costs I mean the average increase for all importations of petrol on landing in Australia. We have had a check made. Apart from the fact that we obtained returns from the companies, we know the gold price and the general changes of the cost of tankers and freight to Australia so we know that the landed cost in Australia should be going up by a certain amount. Having checked these returns we are satisfied that they are correct, and that the increase in the landed cost is in accordance with the figures given in them. I am not at liberty to say what is the increase in the landed cost, but I may say that when we allowed the rise of 4d. last March - before which date it was 3d. - the rise in the landed cost was at least 4d. 
In other words, the Prices Commissioner said that the increased cost to the petrol companies was 4d. a gallon. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown).  - The honorable senator is in order. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I understand that  Senator Spicer  is quoting from evidence which is public property. If the evidence before the committee has been published, the honorable senator is in order in quoting from it. 
It surprises me to find that honorable senators opposite should object so strenuously to what was a perfectly honest desire on my part to bring information before the Senate which seems to be material. I am merely quoting from sworn evidence of a responsible officer who is employed in the very important task of controlling and fixing prices in this country. A statement has been made in the Senate this afternoon which was intended to suggest that the major oil companies got, if not the whole, at any rate the major portion, of the increasedprice of 4d. a gallon. 
I can see nothing objectionable in reading evidence given publicly by the Prices Commissioner. 
It is sworn evidence which is in my possession as chairman of the committee. 
SenatorSPICER. -  Senator Armstrong  also has a copy of the evidence. It has been published in the newspapers. Surely members of the Senate are entitled to have their attention drawn to sworn statements made by a responsible officer of the Government on this important matter. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT.Immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of an honorable senator an order may be made that any document from which he has quoted be laid upon the table of the Senate. 
I shall not occupy the time of the Senate on this matter at greater length than to quote a little more of the evidence. The Prices Commissioner continued - 
The averaging system was still operating to give a price for petrol which was below the landed cost. Of the 4d., the oil companies got 3¾d. ; the other¼d. went to the reseller of petrol to increase his margin. The percentage profit margin of the oil companies is¼d. lower than it was before. There is also a reduced turnover, all of which means that the oil companies are now making substantially less than they were before the outbreak of the war. 
It has a bearing on the comments made by  Senator Ashley.  If it has no bearing on the matter I am surprised that members of the Opposition should have been so assiduous in trying to prevent me from putting these facts before the Senate. 
A document quoted from by a senatornot a Minister of the Crown, may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the table; such order may be made without notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the senator who has quoted therefrom. 
I now request that such an order be made, and that the document from which the honorable senator has quoted be now laid upon the table of the Senate. 
 I support the motion so ably moved by  Senator Ashley  and supported by the members of the Opposition. I regard it as my first duty to deal with the proposition put forward by  Senator Spicer.  The Prices Commissioner did give evidence before the committee in Melbourne on the lines set out by  Senator Spicer;  but merely because he did so is no guarantee that what he said is correct. After all, he was expressing only his own opinion. 
The Prices Commissioner, and many other learned gentlemen, expressed very definite opinions in  1931  concerning the financial proposals of the then Government. Today, the same gentleman, when giving evidence before Parliamentary committees admit that they were then not right. A little while hence, we may find that the evidence submitted by the Prices Commissioner or some other expert witness before the Joint Committee on Profits are not quite right. We have had evidence from statisticians to show that the cost of living in the United States of America has risen by about  2  per cent., but American information discloses that the cost of living in that country has risen almost out of control. So great has been the increase that legislation has recently been introduced into the Congress of the United States of America to peg commodity prices. Subsequent investigation frequently proves that figures submitted by experts to prove what they regard to be facts are often incorrect. The figures produced by the Prices Commissioner show that freights form a. very large proportion of the increase of the landed  cost  of petrol. But, actually, what is the position of the major oil companies in this respect? Figures have been produced to show that freight costs of these companies have increased by almost  32  per cent. I should say, that all of the tankers that are used by the Shell Company of Australia Limited, for instance, are owned by that company or chartered by it for long periods. Thus, any increase in respect of freight is merely a book entry, and like so many book entries, is used simply to mislead the Prices Commissioner. 
I should like to deal with several of the points put forward by the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride).  I feel that the Government should have made a decision one way or the other. However, in this matter it has once more run true to its form of the last few years, and has again exhibited its incapacity to make decisions, right or wrong. Ministers appear to fear that as any decision they might come to might be wrong, they should come to no decision. Consequently, we have witnessed contradictory pronouncements on all matters of major importance. For instance, contradictory statements have been made from time to time with regard to petrol rationing. The 
Government has no straight-line policy. Now, when it is asked to make a decision in respect of  Mr. Craig's  application for permission to float this company, it is unable to come to a decision. It is- a sorry day for this country, particularly in a time of war, when the Government cannot come to decisions on important matters. I have no doubt that  Mr.  Craig  would have been pleased to have got a decision favorable or unfavorable, twelve months ago. He would thus have been enabled to save, not only considerable time, but also a large sum of money, which he has been obliged to waste in endeavouring to force a conclusion, one way or the other. The Minister has failed to justify the extraordinary delay that has occurred in this matter. His main point was that special consideration had to be given to this application. He said that even some existing industries might have to be abandoned because they might not be deemed by the Government to be essential industries. We can understand that point of view, but when we hear so much talk of a total war effort- 
I did not mention total war. 
I said that even  Senator Ashley  would not suggest that this proposed company could produce bitumen as cheaply to-day as it originally claimed it could. 
 Does the honorable senator agree with that prospectus? 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
 in reply  - I regret that  Senator Spicer  has left the chamber. He said that some of the statements which I made earlier were false. I have never made a statement, either in this chamber or on any public platform, which I did not believe to be correct. I am not in the habit of making false statements here or anywhere else. 
He said that they were demonstrably false. I maintain that no answer has been given either by the Minister for Munitions .  (Senator McBride),  or  Senator Spicer  to my allegations. I still contend that, on the basis of an increase of income of 4d. a gallon, the major oil companies are making an additional profit of £40,000 on each tanker of petrol arriving in Australia, that is, after allowing a sum of £10,000 in respect of increased costs. However, as  Senator Armstrong  pointed out, the majority of the major oil companies own their own tankers, and, therefore, are not at the mercy of the shipping companies which have sky-rocketed freights. In those circumstances, the estimate of £10,000 in respect of additional transport charges is very liberal. I do not retract one word of my earlier remarks. These companies are receiving an additional profit of £40,000 on each tanker of petrol arriving in Australia. On the basis of a monthly consumption of 12,000,000 gallons, that represents approximately an increased profit of £160,000 a month. I do not know  Mr. Craig  personally, he is probably better known to the Minister, and other honorable senators, than he is to me. I met him on a couple of occasions, when he supplied me with certain particulars. However, apart from  Mr. Craig,  1 was requested by an officer of the Government of New South Wales to endeavour to find out the reason for the delay in granting permission for the establishment of this industry. Naturally, I consider it to be my duty as a representative of the people of that State to ascertain the reason. It should be known to the Minister and to the Government. Yet, when I asked questions on this matter previously, the only . reply the Minister gave was that the Cabinet was still considering it. The Government should make a decision as soon as possible. Whether the decision does or does not favour the proposition is not the point. I want some finality in the matter, and so do those who wish to form a company. The information upon which I have based my case to-day is contained in the following statement: - 
In October, 1938,  Mr. David  A. Craig returned from a visit to the United States of America with the object of establishing an oil refinery, having as its primary purpose the production of bitumen. Australia's requirements of bitumen total 140,000 tons per annum, and it was with the object of meeting Australia's requirements that  Mr. Craig  proposed the establishment of the oil refinery.  Mr. Craig  visited Canberra in October, 1938, and, during an interview with Customs officials, received encouragement in support of the establishing of the undertaking. During  Mr. Craig's  visit to America, he interested certain independent American oil interests, who sent experts to Australia to investigate the proposal. These experts endorsed the soundness and economics of the proposal and their principals eventually decided to subscribe half of the required capital. In the meantime the Capital Issues Advisory Board was formed, and immediate application was made to it for consent to register  a company. The fullest information was made available to the Capital Issues Advisory Board, and although no definite advice was received regarding their rejection of the proposal, it was ascertained from the then Treasurer  (Mr. Spender)  that the reason for the failure to grant consent was on account of the proposition being economically unsound. The American interests, after waiting many months to get approval, were so disgusted with the delay- that they withdrew from the proposition. 
A second group of oil interests in America was then interested, who despatched experts to Australia. They also agreed as to the soundness of the proposition. The principals of the second group of American oil companies agreed to find capital and provide technical assistance and make available plans for the building of the refinery. They also undertook to make ample quantities of crude oil available. 
The second group of experts who visited Australia happened to travel on the same boat as  Sir Norman  Brookes, and, as a result,  Sir Norman  Brookes was acquainted with the mission of the American technicians. As a result of  Sir Norman  Brookes's  interest in the proposal,  Sir Bertram  Stevens, former Premier of New South Wales, was introduced to the Americans, and  Sir Bertram  advised that  Mr. David  Craig had no political pull and therefore would never receive permission to form a company. 
The American interests then called upon  Mr. Craig  and his associate in the venture,  Sir John  Butters, and inquired whether they were in a position to form the proposed company. They were forced to admit that the company could not be formed until such time as consent to register was obtained from the Capital Issues Advisory Board. The American interests then decided that  Sir Bertram  Stevens was the man who could get finality and an arrangement was made whereby  Sir Bertram  Stevens made an application to the Capital Issues  Advisory Board for permission to register a company along lines similar to those originally submitted by  Mr. Craig. 
Within a period of four weeks, the application was granted, but was subsequently withdrawn when it was discovered that  Mr. Craig,  who had made a prior application, still had his application on the file and that it had not been disposed of. 
Bound about this time,  Senator McLeay,  as Minister for Customs, referred the question relating to bitumen production to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report. The Board's report, which was presented in June of this year, after a delay of seven months had elapsed, introduced the proposals of  Mr. Craig,  and substantiated all claims made by him. Since the presentation of the report in June last, most Cabinet Ministers have been interviewed in the vain hope that the new industry might be allowed to getunder way. 
After the board's report was received a letter was written to  Mr. Craig  from the Capital Issues Advisory Board, suggesting that he make a new application for permission to register and that the fullest information be furnished relating to the American suppliers of oil, the names of overseas firms likely to be interested in the proposal, so that the information could be made to the Oil Advisory Committee. As the members of that committee are associated with various interests associated with the oil industry, and naturally opposed to any new refinery in Australia,  Mr. Craig  declined to furnish the information sought and referred the Capital Issues Advisory Board to his original application. Had the Capital Issues Advisory Board not stopped the establishment of the refinery, production would have been commenced in November of last year, and the through-put of the refinery would have been 20,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum. Employment would have been found for 300 men and there would have been effected a saving in overseas exchange of over £1,000,000 per annum. 
I have no personal interest whatever in this matter. "My only concern is that encouragement should be given to those who are trying to alleviate hardship caused by petrol rationing. The cost of  providing retorts for the production of oil fuel from shale and coal would probably be double that of the plant necessary for this project. I ask the Government to give immediate consideration to this matter and to facilitate the inauguration of this industry in New South Wales. 
I understand that a document from which  Senator Spicer  was reading was, at the conclusion of his speech, ordered to be laid on the table of the Senate. 
Motion -  by leave  - withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
What payment or allowance is made to  Mr. Kneeshaw. chairman  of the Shipping Board ? 
What is the total amount he has received since his appointment? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answer : -  1 and 2.  Mr. Kneeshaw  is  chairman  of the Australian Shipbuilding Board, which functions within the Ministry of Munitions, and acts  in a. purely honorary capacity. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider increasing the pensions of widows and dependants of returned soldiers, having in view the fact that the present rate was arrived at in 1918, when the basic wage was £3 per week? 
This question involves a matter of policy of some magnitude, and the subject will be considered in due course. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
What provision, if any, has been made to rehabilitate in civil life members of the Military and Air Forces stationed in Australia who have enlisted for full-time duty overseas or in Australia and have been discharged for medical reasons for which they have no responsibility? 
This matter does not primarily affect my department. I shall see that it is brought to the notice of the Minister for the Army and the Minister for Air respectively. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister take immediate action t" extend the provisions of the National Security (War Service Moratorium ) Regulations to provide adequate protection for relatives of deceased members -of the Defence Forces ? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer: - 
It is not possible to furnish an answer to a question framed in such general terms, but, if the  honorable  senator furnishes the AttorneyGeneral with particulars of the matters in respect of which he considers the existing regulations inadequate, his representations will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister give consideration to extending to the Mercantile Marine a share of the funds collected by the various patriotic appeals so as to bring the Mercantile Marine into conformity with the other fighting services ? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answer : - 
This matter has already been the subject of correspondence with the general secretary of the Australian Comforts Fund, who has intimated that the constitution of the fund limits its activities to the attention of the Australian Defence Forces on active service and that, under the circumstances, the fund is unable to assist men of the Mercantile Marine. The various patriotic funds in Australia have been established for the specific purpose of aiding men of the fighting forces by supplying additional clothing, comforts, &amp;c, which otherwise they may have no opportunity of obtaining. It ls understood that in all principal ports in Australia institutes conducted for the benefit of visiting merchant seamen and maintained through the generosity of the public provide meals at a nominal rate and arrange for the entertainment of seamen while their ships are in port. 
I do not desire to oppose the motion, for I am rather in agreement with it, but, in my opinion, it is somewhat invidious to select one section of the fighting services for special congratulation to the exclusion of others. Whilst I recognize their wonderful gallantry, the men at Tobruk have been relieved from time to time. Other members of the Australian Imperial Force have been through the Libyan campaign and have also served in Greece and Crete. 
I am dealing with the motion now before the Senate, and, whilst I recognize, that the men of Tobruk have been through hell, it seems to be not in the best interests of the fighting services to select those men for special congratulation by this Parliament. I should like a message to be sent to the whole of the fighting services, recognizing their glorious deeds and paying a tribute to them for their gallantry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It has been frequently said that one of the difficulties of the Opposition arises from the fact that it is expected to oppose every proposal submitted by the Government. I have never conceived it to be my duty to adopt that policy invariably, and my brief remarks on this motion will be offered, not for opposition's sake, but because, in my opinion, I am called upon to discuss the statement presented by the Minister  (Senator McBride).  Although I do not wish to be unkind to the 
Minister, who was faced with the duty of reading the statement prepared for him, I do not think I can be accused of using extravagant language when I say that there was little of value to any of us in the statement. Practically everything in it had already been read by us in the press. It contained certain comments, which, of course, we could not have read, .but those were merely comments by officials. It seems to me that the statement would not have  been  presented to us except for the fact that the Government had no other business to place , before the Senate. I do not object to Parliament being called together, because it had decided to reassemble not later than the 17th September, but the Government should see that we have work to do when we meet. 
I was delighted, as I am sure every other member of the Opposition was, to notice that Australia is extending its reciprocal diplomatic and trade relations with other countries. That is one of the most gratifying developments in connexion with the national Parliament in recent years. I welcome the fact because I have always held the opinion that along that pathway lies an immediate better understanding of other countries and their problems, as well as a better understanding on their part of us and our problems. Ultimately, the extension of our friendly relations will result, I believe, in such a wide acceptance of the principles of democracy and democratic institutions that we sha.ll approach nearer than ever to a state of universal brotherhood, and eventually achieve the complete outlawry of war. 
I was interested in some of the remarks of the Minister regarding our relations with Russia. I was pleased to note the admirable references to the remarkable fight that Russia is putting up against the common enemy. .We all hope that its efforts, together with those of Great Britain and the great republic of the United States of America, as well as the other countries that are holding out in the hope of being able to render some assistance to the cause of the democracies, will be crowned with success. Our great need at the moment is additional allies. We should not imagine that, because a country may hold a certain political faith, it cannot render assistance to our cause. We in Australia stand for the British and democratic way of life, but we have no right to criticize another country's way of life merely because it happens to differ from our own. I hope that ere long we shall see consular representatives of Russia in Australia, and that Australia will be similarly represented in Russia. We should do all we possibly can to promote friendly relations with the people of Russia, and with any other country that is prepared to join the democratic cause. While the present Government remains in office it should not attempt to fill in gaps by the introduction of statements of this kind which can be of no real value to the country. As far as the hurly-burly of politics permits, the Government should arrange that, when the Parliament is called together, business is placed before it. 
The statement under consideration contains nothing which has not already been published in the newspapers. In presenting a statement of this nature to the Parliament, the Government should, if possible, say something in addition to what we have read in the press. Everything in the statement has been most carefully censored by officials who, although responsible to the Parliament, are privileged to know a great deal more than are members of the Parliament itself. I wish to direct attention to what is said in this statement in regard to Russia - 
In this connexion, there is apparently a certain amount of misunderstanding regarding Australia's formal relations with the Soviet Union. The Government has received many representations suggesting that some specific step, such as exchange of diplomatic representatives with Moscow, should be taken to demonstrate our sympathy and moral solidarity with the Soviet Union in its present struggle. But the real position is perfectly straightforward. The King has been in diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union since 1924, and as is the case with every other European country, Australian representation in Russia is effected through the medium of the British Diplomatic and consular representatives. 
Australia should have direct representation in Russia. If it is considered necessary to have direct representation  in the United States of America, Japan, Canada, China and Great Britain, it follows that it will be an advantage to have direct representation in Russia rather than that our representation in that country should be through the medium of the British Diplomatic and Consular Service. Officials of that service are not responsible to this Parliament. If we allow such a position to remain unchallenged, these representatives, acting on their own responsibility and without any consultation at all with this Parliament or with the government of this country, may do and say whatever they consider fit, in the name of Australia. That is a most undesirable state of affairs, and this ' Parliament should not allow it to exist. Nor should it allow a statement of this kind to go unchallenged. If the British Diplomatic and Consular representatives wish to apeak in the name of Australia they should do so only after consultation with, and with the approval of, the Parliament of this country. The principle laid down here is one which Australia has challenged from its earliest days of settlement. We challenge a state of affairs which permits persons who owe no allegiance to Australia, and are not directly responsible to this Parliament, to make statements on behalf of Australia. I cannot see any justification for being satisfied with a state of affairs which means that Australia speaks only through the medium of the British Diplomatic and Consular Service. I suggest that that service represents interests which are not only different from, but in many important ways, are also in direct conflict with the interests of Australia. That is the only point in this statement to which I desire to direct attention; but it is a matter of outstanding importance. 
I express the hope - it may be a vain hope - that in future we shall be told more about the war than hithherto we have been told in this Parliament. I have received communications from various sources which are most disquieting, in that they indicate that things are not going as well as ministerial statements would lead us to believe. The Government has nothing to lose by taking the Parliament into its confidence. "We have had secret sittings of senators and members, but most of what we have been told on those occasions had already appeared in the press. The fact is that this Parliament is subject to the control of the censors. That may be regarded by some as a statesmanlike attitude to adopt, but it is not very helpful, and the Government has no reasonable ground for objecting if suspicion which it finds hard to allay is aroused. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is not my intention to anticipate the budget, but it will be generally conceded that when it is introduced the bone of contention will be matters of finance. For that reason, I bring to the notice of honorable senators some happenings at a recent meeting of the Loan Council, which was presided over by the Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  At the August meeting of the Loan Council  Mr. Cosgrove,  the Premier of Tasmania, moved - 
This Loan Council concurs in the view expressed by the State Parliaments of West Australia, South Australia, Queensland, and Tasmania, that national credit, operated through the Commonwealth Bank only, should be utilized in financing the war for the general well-being of the people of Australia. 
In order to give effect to this policy in a practical manner, the Loan Council recommends to the Commonwealth Government the adoption of the following principles: - 
In future no subscriptions to public loans should be accepted from the trading banks nor should the trading banks be permitted to increase their holdings in Commonwealth bonds; 
Public loan flotations should be limited to amounts within the capacity of the public market, as distinct from trading banks and the Commonwealth Bank; 
Other borrowings should be in the form of direct advances from the Commonwealth Bank; 
Adequate steps should be taken to neutralize increases in cash held by the trading banks and to prevent an expansion of trading bank advances for purposes not consistent with the Government's war policy. 
The Loan Council further urges the Commonwealth Government to use its wartime emergency powers to make whatever legal arrangements are required to give effect to these principles. 

 Mr. Fadden, the  chairman  of the Loan Council, ruled the motion out of order, and that ruling prevented  Mr. E.  Dwyer Gray, the Treasurer of Tasmania, from saying all that wasnecessary. in supporting the motion of his leader. However, he did say - 
I remind the Council, further, that at the Loan Council held in Melbourne, on19th January, 1940, I moved the following motion and received no support, namely: 
An approximate amount of £42,000.000 being required this council advises the Commonwealth Government to make arrangements for an extension of national credit through the Commonwealth Bank solely of at least £15,000,000, the balance to be financed by a later public loan for war purposes only after effecting the arrangements with the trading banks suggestedby the State of Tasmania. 
At present, the press of Australia is misleading the public as to what national credit really means. Recently, a Sydney newspaper took me to task. I put it down to the effect of an interjection by  Senator Gibson,  who admitted that paragraph 504 of the report of the Royal Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems stated that the Commonwealth Bank " can " advance interest-free money to the Government, but did not say that the Commonwealth Bank " shall " do so. Of course, the Royal Commission did not use the word " shall ". What right has any commission to lay down the financial policy of the Government? The commission was engaged on an inquiry, at the termination of which it submitted certain recommendations. I wonder whether  Senator Gibson,  who is  chairman  of the Joint Committee on Broadcasting, would go so far as to tell the Government what it " shall " do regarding the future of the Australian Broadcasting Commission ? 
That is what the royal commission to which I have referred did. On the evidence presented to that royal commission, which was presided over by a judge of the Supreme Court of South Australia - a gentleman with a high reputation as an authority on constitutional matters - the commission reported that the Commonwealth Bank can lend money to the Commonwealth Government free of interest. The only objection to implementing that proposal is that the commission did not say that the Commonwealth Bank " shall " do so. That is an absurd argument. 
I remind the Minister that banks do not lend money at all ; they merely create credit out of nothing. It is time that the Minister either decided whether I am right or wrong, or held his tongue. 
I do not intend to take any notice of inane interjections. At the last meeting of the Loan Council,  Sir Harry  Brown told that body that the Commonwealth Bank could advance £25,000,000 to meet the requirements of the States. Evidently, the Commonwealth Treasurer thinks that wars are won with money, but he should know that they are won by the issue of credit. 
-The Commonwealth is spending thousands of pounds in an effort to convince the people of Australia that if they do not subscribe to war loans, the output of munitions will be adversely affected. Nothing could be more absurd. The total supply of gold in the world was estimated at, $14,000,000,000 in 1939. Most of that gold was held by the United States of America, Great Britain and France, although Belgium, Holland and other small countries held various small amounts. But theremarkable thing is that Germany. Italy and Japan had not gold resourcesequal to those possessed by the  small nnation  of Switzerland. Surely that proves that wars are not won with money. The Battle of Waterloo has not .yet been paid for. At the Loan Council meeting,  Mr. Fadden  made it appear that money had to be conserved in order that the war may be won. When  Sir Harry  Brown, who is a most capable man, told the Loan Council that the Commonwealth Bank "can" advance £25,000,000 for the requirements of the States,  Mr. Fadden  =aid: "No; we want the money for the prosecution df the war". 
That is the trouble. We were let down by the :: heads". 
The people should know what national credit really means. Unfortunately, many members of Parliament have only a kindergarten knowledge of the subject. In trying to placate both Government supporters and members of the Opposition I am afraid the Treasurer will fall between two fires. For three years I have urged that greater use be made of the national credit of this country, and I have successfully challenged members of the Government to controvert my  statements  in regard to finance generally. Only by the use of the national credit will Australia be saved from financial failure and repudiation. 

 Senator CLOTHIER (Western Australia [5.37]. - To-day, in answer to a question relating to the pensions of widows and dependants of soldiers, I was informed that the matter was still under (he consideration of the Government. As honorable - senators are aware" the widow's pension rate of £2 2s. a week was fixed during the 1914-18 war when the basic wage in most of the States was £3 a week. The cost of living has increased considerably since then. A recent award of the Arbitration Court in Western Australia fixed the basic wage in that State at £4 10s. 5d. In view of the greatly increased cost of living since the pension rate was originally fixed the 
Government should see that a commensurate increase is made. I do not suggest that the increased rate should be based on the basic wage paid in Western Australia, but that it should be such as to compensate these unfortunate people for their added living costs. On the 2nd September at a meeting of the executive of the Soldiers' Dependants Appeal, which is associated with the Western Australian War Patriotic Fund, the following resolution" was passed : - 
That this organization make early representations to the Federal Government with a view to the pensions of widows and dependants being increased owing to the high cost of living. 
These unfortunate people are unable to support themselves on a pension of £2 2s. a week. I appeal to the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  to use his influence in the Cabinet to see that the pensions paid to the widows and dependants of ex-soldiers are more closely related to living costs. 
I desire to make a few remarks regarding the sustenance allowance paid to discharged members of the fighting forces and to draw attention to the unsatisfactory treatment meted out to some of these young men. Although the Government is giving consideration to this matter it does not appear to be getting anywhere. I wish to refer particularly to the plight of young men who joined the Australian Imperial Force and, after having served for a considerable time in Australia, particularly in Northern Australia, have been invalided home and discharged. They are given about a fortnight's pay and are then left to look after themselves, even though their physical condition renders them unable to work. To give the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett),  who is himself a returned soldier from the last war, some insight of the conditions under which these men exist to-day, I propose to read an extract from a newspaper report of a returned soldiers' meeting which was held in Burnie recently. The report is as follows: - 
At a meeting of the Returned Soldiers' League at Burnie last night, concern was expressed at the plight of a soldier discharged as medically unfit after a year and 40 days' service, most of which bad been spent in Northern Australia. It was stated that, because he had not served overseas, he was not entitled to sustenance, nor could he become a member of the league. He was in hospital as a result of an illness contracted while in the military forces as a member of the Australian Imperial Force, it was claimed. . . . The soldier was discharged with 12 days' pay. . . . Several members said they understood that, in a recent announcement by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender),  it had been made clear that Australian Imperial Force men serving in Northern Australia were on the same basis as those who served overseas. They could not understand the local case in the light of that statement. 

 Mr. Weight. ; It is a disgrace. And we are appealing for recruits. 
After seeing that report I made some investigations and ascertained that this man was regarded by the authorities as ineligible for admission to a Repatriation Hospital and had to be admitted to the Launceston General Hospital. Although he was very sick, he was compelled to travel across Bass Strait on a second-class pass whilst strong and healthy officers were allowed to travel first class. People complain that even sick soldiers are not allowed to travel first class because they might mix with the officers. I do not say that that is the reason why this man was given a secondclass pass, but I do say that it is scandalous that sick men should be denied the best of accommodation. If a man enlists in the Australian Imperial Force and before he' leaves Australia has to be discharged on account of ill health, he should be granted sustenance on the same basis as that granted to those who are discharged after serving overseas. It is no fault of the soldier that the military authorities have kept him in Australia. The Minister for Repatriation said yesterday that sustenance of ?2 a week will be paid to cx-soldiers on their return from overseas if they are discharged physically unfit and - are unable to work. Sustenance on that scale is not always paid. Recently an ex-soldier approached me and asked me if I could find him a job. He told me that he was a married man with four or five children, and had just returned to Australia and had been discharged from the Army. He was in ill health and had been advised by his doctor not to work until he had regained his strength. This man was granted a sustenance allowance of 12s. 6d. a week, on which he was expected to keep himself, his wife and his family. He said that if I could find him light work he would sooner do it and die on the job than try to exist on 12s. 6d. a week. Feeling sorry for him, I succeeded in placing him in employment in a flax mill, where his services are giving satisfaction. 
During the last few weeks, income tax has been deducted from the pay of mar 1'led soldiers, with three or more children, in military camps in Tasmania. Evidently the Commissioner of Taxation received from the Government instructions to take into account payments of child endowment. This action causes severe hardship. Privates with one child or two children, are not affected; but a private with three children pays from 2s. to 3s. a fortnight, whilst a man with six children pays about 10s. a fortnight. So far as I am aware, such deductions are illegal. The statement which the Minister made to the Senate yesterday may remedy the position, but I ask him to make further inquiries and ensure that all of the moneys which were illegally collected in this manner are refunded to the troops. In. addition, the men should not be under the obligation to make application to the department in order to secure refunds. Many of them probably threw away the stamps when they received them and the law provides that no refund shall he made unless the stamps are produced. .1 urge the Minister to give immediate attention to the subjects that I have raised. 
I realize what the matters to which  Senator Aylett  referred, mean to him, and 1 thank him for his interest in them. He may rest assured that those subjects that affect the Department of the Army will be brought to the notice of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender),  and tha: other matters which concern my department will receive attention. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister for Information state whether any money has been paid to the Department of Information, for the purpose of financing any of its activities, from the secret fund controlled by the AttorneyGeneral ? 
None whatever. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Army seen  a  statement in the Sydney  Truth  of the 21st September that the bombardment of Munster was  a  reprisal for the execution by the Germans of 25 British prisoners of war? If the Minister has seen the statement will he inquire as to its truth? If it be true that 25 British prisoners of war have been executed, is it not possible that on another occasion a similar number of Australian prisoners of war may be put to death in that way? 
I have not seen the report, but I shall peruse it and bring it to the  notice  of the Minister for the Army. 
I have received from  Mrs. W.  K.  Bolton  and family a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion  of  the death of  ex-Senator  William Kinsey Bolton. 
I have received  from the Prime Minister the following letter in response to the request of the Senate that a message be sent to the men at Tobruk:- 
My dear President of the Senate - 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of the 18th September, a telegram embodying the text of the resolution passed by the Senate was to-day sent to the General Officer Commanding in the MiddleEast for transmission to the men of Tobruk. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Army inform me whether the subject of compensation to universal trainees for attending preliminary medical examinations, which Ihave referred to on three occasions on motions for the adjournment of the Senate, is receiving the attention of the Government, and when a reply will be given as to the policy of the Government in this respect? 
The matter is receiving the attention of the Minister for the Army, and I shall ask him to furnish a reply to the honorable senator's question as expeditiously as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - . 
In view of the statement published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 18th September, 1941, wherein the Minister for Air is reported to have stated, in reply to  Mr. McCall,  that he had found the statement made in the Senate by  Senator Arthur  regarding the attitude of the Commanding Officer of the Air Force Station at Richmond to be incorrect, will the Minister state in what respect such statement was incorrect? 
Is the Minister prepared to meet privately a large number of the personnel of the aerodrome to support  Senator Arthur's  statement? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answers :  - 
Following the allegations made by  Senator Arthur  in the Senate, I had a comprehensive inquiry made to ascertain what foundation existed in respect to each aspect of the charges. The substance of these various charges was, upon investigation, disproved. I referred to all these circumstances in a statement made in the House of Representatives on the 28th August, 1941. 
I do not consider that an interview with Air Force personnel, such as suggested by  Senator Arthur,  would serve any useful purpose. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
How many cases of fruit were carted from Beauty Point to Launceston last season? 
What was the mileage involved, and the amount of petrol used? 
What was the total cost of transporting this fruit? 
Was this extra cost charged to the Federal Government? if so, will the Minister for Commerce take the necessary steps to secure a refund of this money from the shipping company concerned? 
The Acting Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Approximately 31,000 cases of fruit have been carted from store atBeauty Point to Launceston in the 1941 season. 
I take strong exception to that remark, and ask that it be withdrawn. 
I did not hear the honorable senator's interjection. 
That is a disorderly remark. If the honorable senator used the expression, hemust withdraw it. 
It is 28 miles from Beauty Point to Launceston. Assuming that the 31,000 cases wentby lorry by road and that each lorry did 12 miles to 1 gallon of petrol and took 250 cases each trip, about 580 gallons of petrol would be used in the cartage of the fruit and the return trip. 
Transport cost was3½d. a case, a total of £452 on 31,000 cases. 
Handling and freight charges from Beauty Point are higher than from Launceston. Any extra cost incurred in respect of movement of the fruit in question would be a charge to the apple and pear marketing scheme. There would be no case for a claim against a shipping company for the refund of any such additional cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Commerce,  upon notice- 
Has any application been received by the Government for permission to import apples from Canada or elsewhere to Australia? 
The Acting Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
An application was received for a licence to import apples from Canada for re-export to Pacific Island areas.The request was refused. 
asked the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Is there any truth in the report in the  Sydney MorningHerald  of the 15th September, 1941, to the effect that thirteen German raiders were destroyed in the South Pacific in the last eight months by Australian and Dutch forces? 
The Minister for the Navy has supplied the following answer :  - 
Whilst it is not in the public interest to disclose specific details of this nature, it is apparent from the information available in my department that the report is incorrect. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a  second  time. 
The sole purpose of the bill is to enable  the  Commonwealth to guarantee to cotton-growers an average net return of 15d. perlb. on raw cotton above the grade of strict good ordinary, i.e., all except low-grade cotton, that will be produced during the 1942 season and thereafter until the completion of one cotton season after  the  cessation of  the  present hostilities with  the  Axis powers. That net return will include any net return to growers from sales of by-products of raw cotton, such as linters, cotton-seed oil, seed cake, oil cake and sheep nuts. The bill seeks to amend  the  existing Raw Cotton Bounty Act under which it was originally arranged to pay during the years 1941 to 1945 inclusive, rates of bounty which would increase or decrease each week by precisely the same amount as the spot  price of American middling raw cotton in Liverpool was below or above 6d. sterling per lb. Under that arrangement, cotton-growers in Queensland had obtained an average net return of11½d. per lb. of raw cotton since 1935. Early this year, however, the war caused the Liverpool Cotton Exchange to close down, and it was recognized by the Government that increased production costs in Australia would need to be covered by a higher price if growers were to produce the increased supplies of cotton which are required by Australian manufacturers, principally in order to enable clothes and equipment to be supplied for the fighting services. Consequently, the act was a mended to substitute the New York spot price for the Liverpool price, and also to guarantee to growers an average net return of 12½d. per lb. of raw cotton. That amendment resulted in the 1941 crop, now almost harvested, yielding about l 2,000 bales, as against only 8,370 bales for the 1940 crop. Meanwhile, however, manufacturers' requirements had far exceeded local production. These requirements, which were 45,000 hales during 1940, will be 80,000bales next year. In addition, the Government decided that manufacturers' war-time emergency reserve stocks should be increased by 40,000 bales, so that any extension of active war to the Pacific and Indian Oceans would not gravely affect Australia's capacity to clothe and equip rhe men of its fighting services. Hence, our aggregate raw cotton needs for the next year amount to 120,000 bales. A close study of this primary industry, which, so far, has been confined to Queensland, has convinced the Government that the present guaranteed net return of 1 2½d. per lb. is not likely to encourage growers to produce more than 15,000 bales during the 1942 season, because of further increased costs and, especially, the costs and hazards involved in preparing and planting many thousands of acres of new land for this crop. On this basis; at least 105,000 bales would need to he imported - four times as much as our record imports before the war. Such a volume of imports seemed to the Government to be too great to rely upon, in view of the growing and serious shortage of overseas ships and the possibility of war approach ing Australia's shores. As a matter of common prudence, it was deemed advisable to encourage the maximum possible increase of Australian-grown cotton. Recognized authorities, both Federal and State, agreed that a guaranteed average price of 15d. per lb. for the remainder of the war period and one cotton season thereafter, as provided in this bill, is essential to obtain a marked expansion of our raw cotton yield. 
Plans are in train for doubling in 1942 the present total area of 55,000 acres now under cotton. From the resultant 110,000 acres, and having regard to an extension of irrigation facilities, it is expected that in 1942 a crop of 30,000 bales will be produced. If climatic conditions are favorable the yield should be as high as 40,000 bales. As the war proceeds, manufacturers' requirements will continue to increase, and there will be ample scope for the production in Australia of even larger quantities of raw cotton. 
The price of l5d. per lb. of raw cotton is equivalent to 5¼d. per lb. of seed cotton as produced on the farm. This is only ¼d., per lb. less than the price paid to growers from 1920 to 1923 when the present industry was started in Australia. From 1924 to 1927, growers received nearly 5d. per lb. After that, their net return averaged slightly over 4d. per lb. until 1940. Although the proposed price of 15d. per lb. represents a substantial increase of the pre-war price, there are good reasons to justify it - 
Similar quality raw cotton from the United States of America now costs1s. 3½d. per lb. landed in Australia, free of customs duty; 
Price and shipping freight trends are upwards, so that the landed cost of American cotton may advancebeyond1s. 3½d. whilst the war continues; 
Australia cannot afford, in these difficult times, to take the great risk of relying too much on imports of raw cotton, which is one of the most important raw materials of war; 
Production costs in the large new areas expected to be devoted to cotton-growing will, in general, be higher than the costs in wellestablished farms where capital expenditure has 'been written down over a period of years. Also, new growers are not likely to be as efficient as experienced' growers. 
It may be asked : What is the need for a guaranteed average net return of ls. 3d. when exactly similar cotton from the United States of America cannot be landed here under ls.  did.  per lb.? Without the security of the guaranteed price afforded by the bill, it is not to be expected that many new fanners would enter the industry or that existing growers would increase their production substantially, because it is only natural that present and potential growers will consider the position they would occupy should the war end suddenly and cause al! raw cotton values to recede below present levels. That is a risk that governments must shoulder during abnormal times, as, indeed, is being done in many directions by the governments of all the belligerent nations, as well as by the United States of America. 
A large expansion of cotton-growing in Queeusland, or new production in other States, will entail the preparation of 50,000 or 60,000 acres of additional land for planting by the end of November nc-xt. Costly work of this nature can be undertaken by many growers only if they receive loans or credits from. State governments or financial institutions. Such aid will not be rendered to a sufficient degree 'Unless it is clear beyond doubt that all the raw cotton produced will ho saleable at remunerative prices. Such prices are assured by the bill now before the Senate, and the extensive demand by Australian manufacturers. 
The extension of the guarantee for one complete cotton-harvesting season after hostilities cease is essential, .because cotton-growers who have incurred considerable expense in the preparation of land, planting operations and cultivation of the crop up to the cessation of hostilities in the belief that a certain price will be received for their crop, are entitled to that price. If the price were not guaranteed in this way, it is clear that fears of a post-war recession in market values would result in cotton-growers adopting an ultra-cautious development policy to the detriment of our war-time needs for this vitally important raw material. 
As an essential condition of the Commonwealth's extension of the bounty in 1940, the Queensland Government ga v, explicit undertakings that it would convert cotton production as quickly a? possible from dry-farming to irrigation by the most economic means for each selected locality, and that it would greatly intensify the instruction of growers in the best cultural methods arid scientificresearch on plant-breeding, pests, diseases, soils and fertilizers. So far, these undertakings have been well implemented, but much work remains to be done. It seems that the very satisfactory average net return of ls. 3d. per lb. now awaiting the approval of the Senate furnishes the cotton-growing industry and the several Queensland Government authorities responsible for giving effect to the Government's undertakings with an ideal opportunity for greatly improving the efficiency and economics of the industry, so that it may be able to overcome post-war difficulties. Tn this regard, it cannot reasonably be expected that the high price of ls. 3d. per lb. will he enjoyed when this legislation ceases to operate, by which time world prices will undoubtedly have fallen to somewhere near normal prewar levels. The bounty cost to the Commonwealth budget of the present price would then he tremendous. 
Despite these remarks, which are made solely for the benefit of the cotton - growing industry, which the Government earnestly hopes will become extensive, permanent and prosperous, there is no need for pessimism in regard to lower postwar net returns. Effective remedies are available to the Queensland Government and to the cotton industry itself, in respect of irrigation and mechanical harvesting. Under irrigation, yields from each acre cropped have been three to four times greater than those obtained as under dry-farming conditions, and the cost of production is thus reduced very considerably. The Queensland Government has frankly recognized this vital fact. The advantages of irrigation are so great to the industry, and so financially found for the State, that extraordinary measures to hasten this reform are justifiable. 
Cotton picking by hand is extremely costly in Australia, and far higher than in any other country. It costs our growers from  4½d.  to 5d. per lb. of raw cotton. Even in the United States of America, where hand-picking costs little more than one-third of the cost incurred in Queensland, much money and time are being devoted to the development of an effective mechanical cottonpicker. One American machine has been tried in our cotton areas, and offers hope that, under suitable conditions, it will considerably reduce harvesting costs. Taking a long view of the general problem of production costs, it may be said that anything which reduces our costs to such a degree as to permit a large expansion of production is well worth while. In that event, .any loss of employment for hand cotton-pickers would be greatly outweighed by extra employment for additional growers, field workers and ginnery employees. 
The bill does not alter the established practice of the last few years, whereunder Australian raw cotton must be sold to manufacturers from time to time at the Australian equivalent of world parity prices of similar cottons. To such a degree as current parity prices permit, the Queensland Cotton Board will be expected to sell its raw cotton to spinners and other users at prices which will not involve the Commonwealth in the payment of any unnecessary bounty. In other words, Queensland cotton should not be sold below import parity .prices. If present parity prices continue little, if any, bounty will be payable under this bill whilst the war is in progress. 
The cotton-growing industry is one of great potential value to the Commonwealth, and that value will be realized if successful efforts are made by all concerned to conduct it on the basis of the highest attainable efficiency under Australian conditions. It offers an  importanmeasure  of diversification of production in many parts of Queensland, a factor of considerable value to primary producers. For many years, cotton-growing has been associated with dairying to the mutual advantage of both enterprises. It is possible, particularly if irrigation methods be applied, that the future will see cotton-growing associated with the sugar industry in certain areas. I understand that extensive experiments in that regard have been planned for  the  Burdekin River district in north Queensland for the coming season. 
Actually, cotton-growing is one of the very few primary industries in Australia in respect of which considerable expansion is necessary in order to supply the requirements of Australia. Many primary industries have more or less acute export problems, and a complete solution of them may not be possible in all cases owing to economic activities and political policies in foreign countries which are our competitors in export markets. Therefore, to the degree to which cotton-growing can be economically expanded in Australia, it will provide a remunerative vocation for surplus producers in other primary industries. During the current season 3,500 farmers grew cotton on 55,000 acres, an area almost exactly the average for the last ten years. The estimated production of 12,000 bales for 1941 was, however, exceeded in four of those years, the highest output being 17,500 bales during 1934. 
The outstanding merit of the bill is the confidence which cotton-growers may properly derive from it in their plans for meeting the urgent needs of this country for a raw material that is of first-class importance to our Defence Forces. I feel sure that this Parliament will not look in vain to the cotton-growing industry for an adequate response to those needs. 
It is not my intention to say more than a few words in regard to this bill. Its importance to Queensland has been very clearly set out in the second-reading speech of the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  ; its importance to Australia and to Australia's war effort has also been very properly emphasized. We on this side of the chamber have continually urged the introduction of a measure of this kind, and we welcome it. On behalf of the Opposition I give the bill its blessing. I trust that it will have a speedy passage and that the hopes expressed in regard to it by the Minister will be realized. 
I welcome the bill, and I am glad to note that it has the support of the Opposition. Undoubtedly the cotton industry has for many years experienced fluctuating fortunes. It seems incredible that we produce only 12,000 bales of cotton a year when our secondary industries require 80,000 bales annually. The industry has failed to expand because prices have not been payable and growers have preferred to produce other primary products for which more favorable markets were available. We can encourage the industry only by stabilizing the price of cotton. The lod. per lb. for raw cotton for which this bill provides during the period of the war and twelve months thereafter is a minimum price, but the maximum price may be much higher, according to the ruling price of raw cotton imported from America. The industry is thus assured of a remunerative return for its product for the period just mentioned. Australia as a whole will benefit from any encouragement of the industry, which will bc of immediate advantage to our war effort, as well as of great benefit to primary production in Queensland. Cotton-growing is not an industry which is easy to develop successfully. Many diseases attack the plants, and considerable difficulty is experienced in gathering the crop. Cotton-growing is also a family industry. Consequently, its encouragement will help to increase our rural population. I hope that the production of cotton will soon become so well established, that we shall not need to import raw cotton, but shall be able to produce the whole of the requirements of our secondary industries. Such a development will be of great benefit to our internal economy, and will help us to deal effectively with our post-war problems. I congratulate the Government upon introducing this measure, and hope that it will have a speedy passage. 
I support the bill. I feel certain that the cotton-growers of Queensland will derive considerable satisfaction from it. Many farmers will now he encouraged to install irrigation plants. However, it is unfortunate that the Government did not introduce this measure a little earlier. The season is now getting on, and we know that considerable time is involved in preparing the land for the crop. Labour is also a problem in the industry. There is much that I can say regarding the policy of the Government towards rural industries generally. Recently, recruiting drives have been made throughout our rural areas with the result that these districts are being depleted of their young men. Such a development will have serious repercussions in all of our primary industries. I was somewhat disappointed at the second-reading speech of the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie).  He more or less apologized for the measure. He stated that the chief reason for the introduction of the bill was the high price of imported cotton. The Government long ago should have realized the value of the cotton industry to Australia. However, its general attitude towards the industry has been unsatisfactory. Only a short while ago, it practically decided to discontinue the bounty altogether, with the result that uncertainty arose in the minds of the growers as to the future of the industry. The industry is not prosperous. It is a very exacting industry, involving considerable labour. Yet, it is of exceptional value to Australia, and if it be encouraged, we shall reap the benefit, not only in respect of our war effort, but also in peace-time. The Government has been somewhat slow on the uptake in regard to the industry. Generally, its attitude has been that within a few years, the industry will be well established and securely developed and the need for the payment of further bounty will then disappear. In the past it has not encouraged the industry as it should have done. Indeed, the Government should he a little more generous in its attitude towards our primary industries generally. It certainly did not occur to the Government to apply the cost-plus system to any of our primary industries. Yet those industries are constantly up against difficulty. The Government could safely run the risk of being accused of being too generous to our primary industries. At any rate, its attitude towards the cotton industry in the past does not reflect credit upon it. 
SenatorCOURTICE. - The Minister must admit that only a little while ago the Government made up its mind to wipe out the industry. 
Only about eighteen months ago, a definite proposal was made to reduce the bounty gradually until it disappeared altogether. 
Unfortunately, the Government is too prone to heed the opinions of experts who pay too much attention to overseas prices. I complain again that the Minister's attitude in his second-reading speech was one of apology for the measure. He said that the price of imported cotton justified the payment of the bounty. Perhaps, if the price of imported cotton had not increased, the Government would not have taken this step. This bounty will give much satisfaction to cotton-growers, and at the moment it is such assistance that is principally sought by the industry. However, if the industry is to be placed on a permanent basis, the Government should not be in too great a hurry to remind the growers that the bounty will last for onlya brief period, and that it will have to be discontinued on the ground that it is uneconomic. I am a practical farmer, and I realize the great benefits which modern methods and efficiency havebeen to those engaged in primary industries. The sugar industry, due to efficient and scientific methods, to-day is able to sell one-half of its production in competition with sugar produced by black labour. I remind the Government that in most countries cotton is grown largely by cheap labour, and for that reason it is not fair to compare production costs in this country with those obtaining elsewhere. I have no wish to raise controversial issues or to delay the measure, but I ask the Government to continue to give favorable consideration to this industry. I believe that it has great possibilities, and is capable of being established on a sound basis. The Queensland Government has taken a great interest in the industry, but, after all, the Commonwealth Government controls excise and customs duties, and neither the Queensland Government nor individual growers can venture too far without an assurance from the Commonwealth Government that prices will not be interfered with in the near future. Conditions must be stabilized before there can be any real development. I commend the Government upon the introduction of the bill, and I hope that it will have a speedy passage. 
I assure the Government- 
I assure the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  that if there were any more Queenslanders in this chamber, they would be just as enthusiastic as we are in support of any measure which will give justice to Queensland producers, who are rendering a great national service. Although it has been admitted that those who arc engaged in the production of cotton are rendering a service to the nation, the whole story of the cotton industry has been one of government expediency, vacillation and the intense antagonism of vested interests. It is only because of the enthusiasm of a number of men, and of the Labour movement generally, in fostering this industry that cotton-growing has been able to survive in this country. I donot believe in complimenting the Government too much upon this measure, because, actually, the cotton-growers are not being given anything. The Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie),  who is in charge of the bill, has admitted because of the present price of cotton that practically no bounty will be paid at all . 
-That is a stupid question. We do not want the bill withdrawn. However, I say quite plainly that the amount which is being guaranteed by this measure is the amount that was asked for by the Cotton Board. We should like the bounty to be at a higher rate. As I have said, cottongrowing is au essential industry in Australia, and steps should have been taken years ago to place it on a sound commercial basis. It is true that a considerable amount of money has been expended on the industry. I understand that  1,100,000  has been expended by way of bounty, and also that approximately  400,000  lias been expended to reimburse growers in certain directions. ' Had that money been expended scientifically with a view to establishing the cotton industry on an economic basis growers would not now be asking for a bounty. I direct the attention of honorable senators to what is happening in other countries and what should bc done here in connexion with cotton-growing.  Senator Courtice  mentioned irrigation. That, of course, is essential. Had that  £1,500,000  been expended in Queensland on the development of irrigation systems in the cotton-growing areas, we should now be able to produce sufficient cotton an acre to compare favorably with other countries, and the growers would be receiving an adequate return. To my mind, that shows . the difference between the methods employed under the democratic system in which we all believe - admittedly, ours is not the best form of democracy - and those adopted in enemy countries. I have no desire to see our industries regimented as they are in Germany, but surely we can learn something from the Germans. When a new industry is established in Germany, steps are taken to see that it is built on a solid foundation. They do not play about with it. They would not let cotton-growers produce so much in one year, and then reduce tillage by  50, 60  or  70  per cent. in. the next year. They would not put farmers on cottongrowing areas in one year and drive them off in the next. 
I do not suggest for n moment that German methods should be adopted here. I am merely trying to show the Government the difference between the methods used here and elsewhere in building up industries. We are a democratic nation; we believe in democracy, and in democratic methods. Surely without industrial regimentation we oan learn from, our competitors and place  thic  highly essential industry on a sound foundation. The whole history of cottongrowing in Australia, reeks with various forms of antagonisms against the growers, and with vacillation and expediency on the part of successive governments. In  1929-31  the Scullin government materially assisted the cotton industry, hut as soon as the succeeding government assumed office - !. think ir was the late  Sir Henry  Gullett who was the Minister responsible - the difficulties of the cotton-growers were accentuated, and many of them had to go off their holdings. 
Some interesting figures supplied to me this morning by  Mr. Townsend,  who bus done splendid work for this industry, show that the average yield of raw cotton an acre under irrigation in other cottonproducing countries are as follows: - Egypt.  531  lb.; Peru,  483  lb.; Russia,  350  lb.; and the United States of America, dry farming and irrigation.  267  lb. In Australia, where production is mostly done by dry farming, the average production is  120  lb. an acre, which is considerably below the world average of  .1.91  lb. I do not wish my statement to bc regarded as derogatory to the cotton-farmers. I" am showing that in this country  it  is essential that we should adopt the best methods possible in order to improve our yield of raw cotton. In the past, governments have failed utterly and completely to provide assistance in the way that  it  should have been provided by the development of production by irrigation. Only in that way can yield he increased and an adequate return made to the growers. The Government of Queensland has expended about  £650,000  in the last five years to assist the industry and is carrying on certain activities which undoubtedly tend to increase the 'average yield of cotton to the acre. The Commonwealth Government has declined to assist  the growers in the past because of an alleged shortage of money, and the industry has been permitted to lag behind, but I point out that there was no shortage of unemployed persons. To-day there is talk of a new order, and I hope that in future money will be made available as readily for the assistance of this industry as for war purposes. Industries of this kind should be dealt with, not from the point of view of political expediency, but having regard to the economic needs of Australia, so that employment may be found and the drift of population from the country to the cities and towns arrested. I understand that the price guaranteed to the producers, until the end of the war and for one season afterwards, is1s. 3d. per lb., and for this small measure of assistance members of the Opposition arc thankful. 
 in reply  - I sympathize with Senators Brown and Courtice in their conflicting reactions to this measure. They are anxious to have a tilt at the Government for its alleged sins, and they are also glad of the assistance being given to the cotton industry. I remember the enthusiasm with which  Senator Courtice  greeted the previous legislation which provided for a guaranteed price of 1s.0½d. per lb. to the grower. Although the guarantee has now been increased to 1s. 3d. per lb., the praise which the honorable senator formerly gave seems to have vanished into thin air.  Senator Brown,  apparently, forgets that, despite the omissions of the present and past governments, 3,500 farmers in Australia are growing cotton to-day on 50,000 acres.  Senator Brown  even went so far as to point out how inefficient are the cottongrowing methods adopted in Queensland to-day. According to his argument, land in that State is not fit for cotton production because the output to the acre is lower than in any other part of the world. The Government, on the other hand, believes that cotton-growing will become successful in Queensland, and that, with the co-operation of the State Government and the growers, a valuable national industry will be established. Possibly in their old age Senators Brown andCourtice will admit that the present Government has helped to give this industry a good start. I am glad that its efforts are appreciated on both sides of the chamber, and I shall accept with equanimity the criticism which almost invariably comes from a section of the Opposition. I should have thought that senators who directly represent the Queensland cotton growers would at least have had the grace to express their gratitude to the Government for what it is trying to do for the industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The bill provides for the payment of a bounty of 4d. for each 1 lb. weight of copper wire used in the manufacture of rubber-insulated cable and rubberinsulated wire - other than such cable and wire sold by a manufacturer direct to the Commonwealth for use for defence purposes - which has been or will be manufactured during the period from the 1st July, 1940, to the 30th June, 1942, for sale for use in the Commonwealth. Bounty will not be paid to such an amount as may cause the net profit derived by a manufacturer from the manufacture and sale of bountiable cable and wire to exceed 8 per cent, of the capital actually used by him in such manufacture and sale. Furthermore, the maximum amount of bounty payable in respect of cable and wire manufactured during either of the two financial years covered by the bill is £25,000. 
The manufacture of electrical cable and wire represents a new industry for Australia. Prior to 1941, Australia obtained most of its requirements of such goods from the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany being the other important supplying countries, although the United States of America sometimes received large orders from local importers. These cables and wires are principally used for telegraph and telephone lines and for electric light and power purposes. In normal times the wholesale value of Australia's requirements of electrical cables and wires is approximately £1,500,000 per annum. 
The establishment of the industry in Australia is due to the enterprise of a Melbourne company, Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company Limited, which decided early in 1939 to make plans for producing these goods in the Commonwealth. After executives of the company had inspected factories in Britain and America, it decided to build a factory in Melbourne capable of supplying about one-third of the normal commercial requirements of Australia. Machinery and equipment were purchased partly from the United Kingdom and partly from Australian engineering concerns. Production of electrical cables and wires actually commenced in June, 1940. By that time it had become difficult to obtain sufficient supplies of these goods from Great Britain owing to the preoccupation of British manufacturers with production for defence needs, and to the increasing shortage of overseas shipping. The company's original intention was to accumulate sufficient stocks to supply orders from all States simultaneously, and it intended to seek tariff protection from the Government before entering the market in that way. Before adequate stocks could be established by the company a survey of supplies of rubber-insulated cables conducted by the Department of Supply and Development disclosed a serious shortage. Considerable quantities of these cables were urgently needed by our fighting forces, for example, for field telephone cables, &amp;c. Consequently, the company was officially requested to release its stocks for immediate consumption, largely for the Department of Supply and Development, the Department of the Army and the Royal Australian Air Force. 
The Tariff Board has reported to the Government that this premature release of stocks resulted in losses to the company which would probably have  been  avoided had the company adhered to its original plan to enter the interstate market later on when higher selling prices for these cables and wires would have been obtainable. In this connexion I point out that goods of this nature arriving from the United Kingdom are not subjected to customs duty but they bear a primage duty of only 4 per cent. Even when electrical cables and wires are obtained from foreign countries, the customs tariff is only 15 per cent, plus a primage duty of 10 per cent. In these circumstances the company had to sell its products, at that time, at prices based on virtually a free trade import parity, so far as sales for ordinary commercial consumption were concerned. With regard to the substantial portion of its output sold to the Government for defence requirements, however, the question of fair and reasonable prices, having regard to Australian production costs, has been mutually arranged between the Commonwealth departments concerned and the company. No bounty will be payable in respect of cable or wire sold direct to the Commonwealth for defence purposes. The Tariff Board has given careful consideration to the losses suffered by the company for the reasons I have stated, and the Government has approved of its recommended solution, namely, that the bounty be paid retrospectively on all production for commercial consumption from the 1st July, 1940, at the rate of 4d. per lb. weight of copper wire used in the manufacture of these goods. 
Since the industry was started in June, 1940, war-time difficulties, affecting manufacture in Britain and shipping between Britain and Australia, have increased so much that little if any supplies of electrical cables and wires will be obtainable from the United Kingdom during the future progress of the war. Consequently, Australia may have to rely almost entirely on local production for its requirements. In order to meet this serious position, the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company Limited has already taken steps to increase its productive capacity, and a now company, Cable Makers (Aust.) Proprietary Limited, will start production in its factory at Liverpool, New South Wales, in a month or two. These two companies expect to provide the hulk of Australia's requirements of electrical cables and wires at no distant date, and it is likely that they will directly employ from 800 to 1,000 workers in this new industry. I have said enough to demonstrate to honorable senators that this industry has already proved of great importance to Australia's war effort, having already met many demands for electrical cables for use by the Defence Forces in Australia and in the various theatres of war. Moreover, after the conclusion, of the war, .the industry should be capable of taking its place among the permanent industries of the Commonwealth, being worth, on a wholesale basis, approximately £1,500,000 per annum, and doubtless capable of further expansion. 
The Tariff Board has recommended Commonwealth assistance to this industry in its initial stages by means of the bounty specified in this bill. In this regard, whilst the local industry is able to supply only less than one-half of the requirements of the Commonwealth, the economic cost of assisting it is smaller under a bounty than under a customs tariff. As local production approaches market requirements, however, bounty assistance can be effectively and economically replaced by tariff protection. The Tariff Board has recommended that the Government review the bounty before its expiry on the 30th June, 1942, by which time both companies should be supplying the bulk of our requirements of electrical cables and wires. The Government will arrange for this review. Apart from the extensive direct employment which is assured by the establishment of this new industry, considerable indirect employment will be created by the requirements of local manufacturers for Australian copper wire, lead, tin, chemical ingredients and raw cotton. The only important non-Australian raw material used is rubber, which is obtained from British Malaya. 
I commend this bill to the Senate, believing that honorable senators will welcome the action taken by the Government to assist this valuable new industry and the enterprising companies which have expended a great deal of thought and money in its establishment. 
.- The Opposition supports this bill believing that it is to be some implementation of the policy adopted by the Labour party during the very short period when, it had an opportunity to establish and to foster Australian industries. I agree that the establishment of an insulated cable and wire manufacturing industry iu Australia is a substantial contribution to the industries of this country. I am glad that the Government has provided in the bill that the bounty is to be reviewed before the date of its expiry on the 30th June, 1942. I say that because the two organizations which arc to share in it, the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company Limited and the new company, Cable Makers (Australia) Proprietary Limited, are organizations with considerable financial stability, and it is possible that, before the expiry date, they may be firmly established and may not require assistance. The Opposition is pleased to note that a provision has been inserted in the bill to protect the wages and conditions of those engaged in the industry. The importance of this new industry can be gauged from the estimate of the Minister  (Senator Leckie)  that, within a short time, it will be producing material valued at £1,500,000 per annum. I am glad to note that provision has been  made in the bill that no bounty is to be paid' in respect of defence requirements, that the period during which the bounty is to be paid is limited to two years and that bounty will not be paid to such an. amount as may cause the net profit derived by a manufacturer to exceed 8 per cent, of the capital used in the manufacture of bountiable cable and wire. The decision to grant a bounty to this industry was based on a recommendation of the Tariff Board, after that body had fully investigated the matter. With the exception of rubber, which is imported from British Malaya, most of the materials to be used in this new industry will he manufactured or obtained in Australia. It is gratifying to learn that the industry will provide employment for between 800 and 1,000 persons in New South Wales and Victoria. That, at least, is some compensation to the people of those unfortunate States who have continually been helping to foster industries in the less prosperous States of Australia. This bill has been already dealt with expeditiously by the House of Representatives and I trust that it will be passed through this chamber with equal expedition. Imitation i.- the sincerest, form of flattery, and I congratulate the Government upon the introduction of the bill because, at long last, in connexion with this industry, it has adopted the policy of the party which I represent. 
.- I do not intend to oppose the bill, but 1 propose to say a few words in regard to it. It seems to me that, in providing that the 'bounty is to he paid retrospectively, the Government is adopting an entirely new procedure. Never before have bounties been made retrospective for a period of fifteen months. It is obvious that considerable difficulty will be experienced in tracing sales of materials on which the bounty is payable during till last fifteen months. In introducing the bill, the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  said that its purpose was to assist an infant industry. I remind honorable senators that it is an infant that has been walking and talking for the last fifteen months, and is now pretty steady on its feet. When the Tariff Board investigated this industry in 1930, it opposed the granting of a bounty or the imposition of a duty because it contended that, if that wore done, the Australian users would have to pay 50 per cent. more for their requirements of insulated cable and wire. The Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company Limited is manufacturing insulated cable and wire for use in household appliances such as vacuum cleaners and electric irons, and for the wiring of houses. The Electricity Commissioners in the different States, who objected to the granting of the bounty when the matter was being inquired into by the Tariff Board, said that the granting of a bounty would affect electricity users. The existing duty of £37 a ton on copper used in the manufacture of the cable and wire covered by this bill is substantial. However, my principal objection is to the proposal to make the bounty retrospective for fifteen months. I cannot recall another instance in which a bounty has been made retrospective. Of course, certain safeguards are provided in the bill. Foi instance, the bounty will not be payable if the net profit from the manufacture and sale of bountiable cable and wire exceeds 8 per cent, of the capital employed in such manufacture and sale. But will it not be very difficult to determine what proportion of a manufacturer's business is in respect of thu manufacture of these particular materials? Further, the wages cost involved in the manufacture of this kind of cable does not exceed 8 per cent. : the bulk of the cost is for material. Consequently, I do not agree with  Senator Keane  that, the employees in this industry will derive great benefit from thi* bounty. The Minister referred to a new company. Cable Makers (Australia) Proprietary Limited. That, is a proprietary company, and consequently it does not publish -its balance-sheet. That is one objection which I take to this company as a recipient of this bounty. Further, the company has three shareholders, namely, Metal Manufactures Limited, which holds 142,500 shares, members of the Cable Makers Association of Great Britain, who also hold 142,500 shares, and British Insulated Cables Limited, which holds 15,000 shares. The Tariff Board reported that these people intended to commence operations last May. However, according to the Minister, they have not yet commenced operations, hut are now about to do so. I also point out that these people originally did not want a bounty, or duty. They were prepared to make this material in competition with British manufacturers, probably because a big proportion of their capital was to be provided by British companies which in the past had manufactured Australia's requirements. Metal Manufactures Limited is an immensely -wealthy concern engaged in the manufacture of lead-covered cable. We know that such, cable is made for governments only, being used for telephone purposes. These cables take from ten pairs to 500 pairs of wires. The whole of the underground telephone cable now being laid from Melbourne to Seymour, a distance of 60 miles, has been provided by Metal Manufactures Limited, which also provided at great cost the cable laid from Sydney to Newcastle. When I was PostmasterGeneral in 1927 the Postal Department called for tenders throughout the world for the supply of cable of this kind, and received tenders from companies in Germany, Great Britain and Australia. The amount of the Australian tender was £226,000. The cable called for was to take from ten pairs to 500 pairs of wires. The amount of the German tender, which provided for the use of Australian copper, was £116,000. At that time there was a duty of 40 per cent, on cable of this kind, and the Postal Department also allowed a special preference to Australian companies. That departmental preference, the amount of which I shall not mention here, represented a further substantial duty. Yet, after allowing for the departmental preference and the duty of 40 per cent., the Australian tender exceeded the German tender by £42,000. As Postmaster-General, I did something which, perhaps, was very improper. I sent for the representative of the Australian company and told him that he was going to lose the contract. He replied that if he did so he would have to sack 500 nien. I then replied that the saving which I could effect by accepting a lower tender would provide employment for more than 500 men. I then told him that if he would reduce his tender by £42,000 I would accept it. He replied that he could not do that. However, the next morning he tele- phoned me that he would accept my offer. Consequently, his company reduced its original tender of £226,000 by £42,000. The government of that day was defeated in 1929, and when the new government came into power fresh tenders were called for the supply of this matetrial. Such tenders were, of course, submitted to the Contracts Board. However, I was naturally curious to see what happened. T found that tenders had been called in the United States of America, Great Britain, Germany and Australia for the supply of approximately the same quantity of material. A most extraordinary thing happened. Quotations were supplied for about 30 or 40 types of cables, varying from ten pairs of wires to 500 pairs, yet there was not a difference of £1 between the tender price of any one of those types when the duty was added and the price offered when 1 was Postmaster-General One can read between the lines to discover what happened, because there is not the slightest doubt that something did happen. I repeat that, as a proprietary company will be eligible to receive this bounty, the Government must watch very . carefully in order to ensure that profits on the manufacture and sale of bountiable cable and wire do not exceed S per cent. After all, manufacturers are not above charging governments more than they should be charged. In this case, as the Minister pointed out, bounty will not be payable in respect of any material sold to the Commonwealth Government, but only in respect of material sold to private people; but what about government purchases from merchants? However, I should like to know what method will be adopted to trace the income of this company from the Government as distinct from private customers, particularly in respect of sales made during the last fifteen months. We are adopting a new system altogether in paying retrospectively a bounty in respect of commodities manufactured and sold over so long a period. That is my main criticism of the measure. 
 in reply  - I thank honorable senators for  the manner in which they have received the measure. I explained in my second reading speech that when the Olympic Tyre and Rubber Company Limited commenced manufacturing this wire in Australia in 1939 it intended to build up stocks in order that as soon as possible it would be able to supply the requirements of all States simultaneously. However, the war intervened ; and I can only say that Australia should be grateful for the fact that this company was so enterprising as to start this venture before the outbreak of war. We needed supplies of cable and wire urgently, yet we found that we could not get this material overseas. Consequently, it was of great advantage to the Government to find that it was able to call on this company for the urgent requirements of the Department of the Navy and the Department of the Army. The Tariff Board reported that in consequence of the company's action in making these supplies available to the Government, the company has suffered a certain loss ; and, consequently, the board recommended that the company be paid this bounty retrospectively to June, 1940. I realize that the retrospective provision in this measure is something new, but the circumstances of this particular case are unique. They were brought about simply as the result of war. I should be very sorry to see any company which was of such great assistance to Australia's war effort as this company has been, suffer any loss in respect of its great enterprise, involving considerable capital, in establishing so valuable an industry in Australia. Therefore, I ask the Senate to agree to the measure. I again remind honorable senators that no company the net profits of which on the basis mentioned exceed 8 per cent, will be entitled to receive this bounty. That percentage is inclusive of tax, so the actual percentage of profit would be something like  G$  per cent.  Senator Gibson  fears that some difficulty will be experienced in separating the activities of these companies in order to determine sales to the Government as distinct from sales to private customers. Clause 13 of the bill provides that a manufacturer shall keep separate accounts, and that such accounts shall be subject to audit. Consequently, hon- orable  senators need have no fear in that regard. 
That is so. As a matter of fact the new company to which  Senator Gibson  referred will not commence operations until next December, or January, so that it will have only six months in which to draw the bounty ; and, in the meantime, as I indicated previously, the Government intends to review this matter in order to determine whether further tariff protection is required. I assure honorable senators that the company to which the bounty will be paid retrospectively has rendered excellent service in Australia's war effort in respect of the supply of not only material of this kind, but also other material. 
It is already supplying to the Department of the Army and the Department of the Navy, and for defence purposes generally, a vast quantity of material which will not be subject to bounty at all. That quantity represents a weekly production of thousands of miles. I mentioned previously that it was supplying 3,000 miles of field cable for defence purposes. I repeat that this company has done excellent work for Australia, and it should receive every support to which an Australian industry is entitled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
On Wednesday last  Senator Cooper  asked the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
What provision, if any, has been made to rehabilitate, in civil life, members of the military and air forces stationed in Australia  who  have enlisted for full-time duty overseas or in Australia and have been discharged for medical reasons for which they have no responsibility? 
I now furnish the following replies :  - 
Apart from war pensions and medical treatment available to members of the forces whose disabilities are due to war service, the Government is considering a scheme of vocational training to provide for those who enlisted for service overseas and who are discharged from the forces with war disabilities which prevent them following their prior to enlistment occupations. In this connexion the Government has received a comprehensive report from the Sub-committee of the Interdepartmental Advisory Committee on Reconstructions, which sub-committee consisted of representatives of the Departments of Labour and National Service, Repatriation Commission, Army and Air Force. This report covers a wide field and deals with the question of training and placement of all classes of members of the forces in all its aspects. The Government has not yet reached finality with regard to that report, but in the meantime proposals are in hand to enable the Repatriation Commission to proceed with a tentative scheme of vocational training for war-disabled men. 
Provision also exists to obtain employment and for the payment of sustenance for members who have served overseas with satisfactory record. 
On Thursday last I asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army  (Senator Foll)  the following question,  upon notice: - 
Has the Government issued any instruction or regulation which would allow any young man under the age of 21 years to enlist as a member of the Australian Imperial Force without the consent of his parents? 
That question has not been answered although I am sure that the information I desire could he obtained within 24 hours. The Government knows well what the position is, and all I want is a plain statement of fact. My reason for asking the question is that a number of complaints have been made to me with respect to the attitude adopted by certain military officers in intimidating or coercing young men under 21 years of age into joining the Australian Imperial Force. I am not in a position to say whether these complaints are justified, but the fact remains that complaints are being made. It is also a fact that in regard to one case which has been brought to my notice I have not got a satisfactory reply from the General 
Officer Commanding the Southern Division or his subordinates. On the8th September, I addressed the following letter to  Major Saber  in Melbourne - 
The Minister has askedus not to worry him unduly, but surely the Government should not require a week in which to answer a simple question. In the light of the delay that has occurred, and the unsatisfactory attitude of the military officers concerned, it seems to me that the position is not as it should he. I trust that the Minister will take action to see that if the mother is entitled to object to her son being sent overseas he will not be. permitted to go. 
According to his mother, he has been consulted and desires to be discharged. This and similar complaints are having an adverse effect on recruiting, because parents discuss these matters with one another, and the position cannot be satisfactorily explained. 
I have received a letter from a young member of the Australian Imperial Force now serving in the Western Desert. He has enclosed a cutting from the Melbourne  Sun,  and has asked me to correct publicly a statement made by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender).  The newspaper report is as follows: - " No margarine is being used or has been used by the Army ", declared the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  last night, replying to statements that it was being substituted for butter in the A.I.F. " These reports are pin-pricking and irritating ", he added. " Only last week 15,000 lb. of butter was supplied to forces within Australia. " Margarine does not appear on the contract list of the Australian forces or on lists of supplies from British depots to Australian troops serving abroad." 
This young " digger " has written to me in the following terms: - 
Did you get the cutting I sent about army foods and  Mr. Spender's  assurances on the subject.  Mr. Spender  had better check up. We have had tinned margarine for many weeks. Sump oil is better. Margarine, he says, is not given to the troops either at home or abroad. Not that I'm making a fuss at having to make do with the stuff, only it just goes to show that the general public are told just what's considered good for them. Beer is still shipped in unlimited quantity to the army canteens. It must run into ship-loads. If that has space allotted it, I don't see why Australian butter can't be sent. We get Queensland meat, which is a bit of an achievement out here in the desert. 
The Minister has my sympathy in many ways. He is not a soldier, and knows nothing about soldiering. 
Commissions should be earned. I would not give a commission to any soldier unless he had served for at least two years in the ranks, and I would not give a staff job to a man who had not carried out regimental duties for two years as a commissioned officer. Statementsby a responsible Minister such as that to which I have referred are very irritating to the troops serving in the desert. 
I regret that an answer to the question asked by  Senator Cameron  has not yet been supplied to him, but I know that a reply has reached Canberra and is awaiting the Minister's approval. I shall endeavour to supply him with the answer as soon as possible. Only a few days ago the Cabinet reached a certain decision in relation to the age at which members of the fighting services will he allowed to proceed overseas, but 1 do not wish to refer further to the matter because I am not sure whether the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  has yet been notified of the decision of the Government. I shall have the matter raised by the honorable senator placed before the Minister immediately, so that a decision may be reached regarding it, because I can understand the anxiety of the parents of young soldiers who desire to go overseas. 
In reply to  Senator Sampson,  I feel confident that in no circumstances would the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  deliberately make an inaccurate statement in relation to the food supplied to our troops either overseas or in Australia. The honorable senator's remarks will be placed before the Minister without delay. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Does the Commissioner of Taxation administer section 24 (3) of the War-time (Company) Tax Assessment Actas not applying to a company which has purchased its business or assets from another company, or does he administer it as applying irrespective of whether the vendor was an individual or a company? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
Section 24 (3) of the War-time (Company) Tax Assessment Act is administeredas applying irrespective of whether the vendor is an individual or a company. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
With reference to the reply made by the Minister to a question on the Senate notice-paper of the 4th July last, regarding the great international aluminium combine known as Alcoa, would the Minister inform honorable senators whether the Commonwealth Government's representative in America has yet forwarded a copy of the indictment and a summary of the evidence against this monopoly? 
Will the Government take  steps  to see that this monopoly neither directly nor indirectly abets any interest in the proposed establishment of the manufacture of aluminium in Australia? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Yes. 
The representations made by the honorable senator and others in this regard will have the fullest consideration of the Government. 
If so, how much is the company producing per annum? 
Where does the company obtain its bauxite? 
Is it a fact that two-thirds of this company's interests are held outside Australia? 
How much bauxite has been imported into Australia since the war commenced,and how much per ton did it cost, landed in Australia? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  -  1, 2 and 3. The Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited is equipped with rolling and extrusion plant and is not Deducing aluminium ingot. 
The British Aluminium Company Limited and Aluminium Limited, Canada, each hold one-third interest in the Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited. 
Twenty-five thousand tons at an average landed cost of approximately £4 10s. per ton. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and and Customs,  upon notice - 
What action does the Minister propose to take to remedy the present method of retailing cigarettes and tobacco? 
The Minister for Trade and Customs has supplied the following answer: - 
The distribution of the rationed quantities of cigarettes and tobacco available to the trade has been the subject of investigation by my department. It is now proposed to set  up  State committees with a departmental  chairman  to hear and investigate complaints of alleged inequitable distribution of tobacco products. 'J he committees would be empowered to correct the position in any case where unfair distribution was found to have occurred. Draft regulations are in the hands of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
When will the Minister he in a position to make a statement in regard to the future of the Commonwealth apple and pear acquisition scheme? 
The Acting Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The policy for the 1942 season willbe stated as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister received from the Apple and PearMarketingBoard the report and balance-sheet relating to the disposal of the apple and pear crop for 1940-41? 
If not, when will such report and balancesheet be available? 
No. 
The report and balance-sheet will not he available until the marketing of the crop is completed and the accounts finalized. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice- 
Is it a fact that Army Voluntary Aid Detachments, after four weeks' training, are sent abroad for duty in hospitals and receive rates of pay equal to those received by trained nurses? 
Will the Minister see that preference is given to trained nurses for such positions in future ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. The rates of pay for Voluntary Aid Detachments are lower than the rates paid to nurses. 
Voluntary Aid Detachment personnel are appointed to replace men in military hospitals and they undertake such duties as clerks, cooks, nursing and ward orderlies. They do not replace trained female nurses. 
asked the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that there is a shortage of shipping on the Australian coast, particularly for the carriage of coal ? 
If this is so, would the Minister indicate what assistance, if any, he is prepared to give in order to refloat and recondition the SS.  Dellie,  now ashore at Fingal Beach, New South Wales? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The demands on coastal shipping under war conditions are very great, and every suitable available vessel is usefully employed. 
The owner of the  Dellie  received £6,000 insurance money and then bought the vessel back from the underwriters for £505. The Commonwealth has no organization for salvaging wrecked ships, which is a speculative task. If the prospects of salvage are hopeful enough private enterprise may be relied upon to undertake the task. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
How many members of rifle clubs in each State have enrolled in the Volunteer Defence Corps, now designated the Home Guard? 
Will the Minister give instructions to increase the establishment of the Home Guard in order that eligible rifle club men anxious to enrol are taken on the strength instead of being obliged to remain supernumeraries pending absorption ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
The number of members of rifle clubs from various States who have enrolled in the Volunteer Defence Corps is as follows: - 

<graphic href="168332194109251_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

Owing to the rifle clubs having been placed in recess, it has been found difficult to obtain accurate and complete reports. 
It is anticipated that the approval which has recently been given for rifle club members to be enrolled supernumerary to the establishment of the Volunteer Defence Corps may result in further substantial numbers joining the corps. 
Consideration is being given to an increase in the establishment of the Volunteer Defence Corps so that it may perform adequately the defence role which has been assigned to it. It will be appreciated, however, that it will not be the policy to increase the strength of the Volunteer Defence Corps in remote localities where its services are not likely to be required, merely on account of the fact that suitable personnel happen to be available. The normal role of the corps is static defence of vulnerable points, installations, &amp;c, at or adjacent to the area in which members of the various sub-units reside. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that, during the warof 1914-18, the battalion commander, two majors, the adjutant and seven subalterns of the 13th Battalion, Australian ImperialForce, were cashiered for cowardice? 
Is the Minister aware that a statement to the above effect was made in the Senate on the 26th June, 1941, by  Senator S.  K. Amour? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer : - 
Inquiries are being made and a reply will be furnished to the honorable senator as soon as possible 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Has the Government issued any instruction or regulation which would allow any young man under the age of 21 years to enlist as a member of the Australian Imperial Force without the consent of his parents? 
No. The instructions provide that men below the age of 21 years must obtain their parents' consent to their enlistment. 
I lay on.  the  table the following paper : - 
Apple and Pear Organization Act - Third Annual Report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board, for year 1940-41, together with statement by the Minister for Commerce regarding the operation of the act. 
I suggest that, in order to conserve stocks of paper, the report be not printed: a.- a parliamentary paper this year. The Apple and Pear Board referred to is not the marketing board which is at present dealing with the apple and pear crop, but a "body which was appointed- some years ago to control the export marketing of apples and pears. 
During my membership of the Senate, it has fallen to my lot on more than one occa sion to have to accept a task which I would 'rather not have had thrust upon me. Fortunately, that has not happened very often; but incidents have occurred recently in connexion with the government of this country which require a good deal of comment and investigation. Yesterday J witnessed, in the House of Representatives, proceedings which, in my opinion, were in every way unsatisfactory. Australia is an important part of the British Commonwealth of Nations, and is at the moment engaged in one of the greatest crises in the history of the world. This country is participating in a struggle which is more terrible than anything in the nature of warfare that has previously been experienced by man. All of the participants in the struggle, at least, those on the side which this Parliament supports, agree that it is a struggle to preserve our democratic institutions, among which is included this Parliament, as well as the rights of individuals and communities to follow their own way of life. I want to be as temperate as is possible in the circumstances, but, in my opinion, what occurred yesterday in the other  chamber  will do more to destroy the faith of the people in this  Parlia- ment. purl  in  our  democratic institutions generally, than any other single event of which I am aware since this National Parliament was established. It may be urged that all parties were involved in the unseemly display. I want,' first, to trace as briefly as possible the history of the events which led to the culmination yesterday. I say now - not with a view to scoring any advantage in debate, but because I am sure that the Opposition ought to say it and that honorable members on the Government side ought to approve of what I am. saying - that the Leader of the Labour party in the House of Representatives,  Mr. John  Curtin, took the right and honorable course in the circumstances - a course which was in the best interests of democratic government, so far as we have anything to do with it. The facts which were placed before the other branch of the legislature were that a man visited  Mr. Curtin's  bedroom, uninvited, and there presented to him, uninvited, two documents which contained most serious statements in that they involved certain men. some of them outside the Parliament and others who occupy highly responsible positions in the Parliament, namely, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  and  his  immediate predecessor, the Minister for Defence Coordination  (Mr. Menzies). Mr. Curtin's  immediate reaction was that the information which had been thrust upon him was too dangerous to handle. Being a. journalist himself, and not unacquainted with secretarial work, he noticed that the papers which had been handed to him were carbon copies. He therefore said to his visitor : " These are only copies ; where are the other copies ? "  His  visitor replied that another person, who also was a member of the House of Representatives, had a copy.  Mr. Curtin  is not yet aware how far any other copies have circulated. He has since expressed to his colleagues his reaction to the disclosure made to him.  His  first thought was: "I can have nothing to do with a man who gives to me statements containing Cabinet secrets which he has no right to know and which I have no right to know ". He therefore went immediately to the men involved ; he did so before he consulted any member of his own party. He went, first, to the Prime Minister, and, handing him the documents, said: "Read those; they have been handed to me. I am not involved,but you are." After the Prime Minister had read the documents,  Mr. Curtin  took them to the Minister for Defence Co-ordination, to whom also he said : "Read those; I am not involved, but you are ". He was then informed that before he had taken that action, the leakage of Cabinet secrets had become known and the individual involved had been discharged from the PublicService. What was the position then?  Mr. Curtin  took the executive of those who sit in opposition in the two chambers into his confidence. He told them as much as he felt it was proper to tell them without revealing those matters which were Cabinet secrete and which, as he himself said - and quite rightlyshould not be further bruited abroad. The Prime Minister made a statement in the House of Representatives and the Leader of the Senate made a similar statement in this chamber. A debate ensued yesterday in the House of Repre sentatives and a debate is now in progress here to-day. It may be argued that, because of what occurred in the House of Representatives yesterday, a debate in this chamber is unnecessary. With that contention I do not agree. 
What has occurred to-day has not yet been made known to this chamber, and I do not propose to make it known. I and the members of my party in this chamber refuse to be excluded from expressing our disapprobation in no uncertain terms at the unseemly explanation which has been offered and I propose to criticize it to the best of my ability. We refuse to remain silent on this subject. We, in this chamber, cannot participate in the fighting of this war, but we can see that we do not desert the boys who are engaged in the frightful conflicts that are taking place on the other side of the world. They are fighting to preserve democracy, we are fighting for the decency of Parliament. It has been said in the Government-owned and controlled press that the proceedings to which I refer are discreditable. I said that myself at the opening of my remarks; but that is no reason why we should remain silent. We, on this side ofthe chamber, decline to become accessories after the fact. If we did so we would quite properly be bracketed with those, who, unwittingly or otherwise, support the Government in what it has done. There is no election pending; I am not out on the hustings. I do not intend to have reprints of this speech made and circulated throughout the great State of Queensland. This is no election speech. When an election comes it will be fought on a very different issue from that with which we are now dealing.I can promise honorable senators opposite that it will be fought on an issue which will entirely obliterate this Government and prevent a. recurrence of these unsavoury proceedings. I listened to a very considerable portion of the debate in the House of Rep resentatives last night, and I say. with all respect, that I was thoroughly ashamed, not as a Labour man, not as an opponent of the Government, but as a  member of this great National Parliament, to hear what was said by some Government spokesmen. . I was interested io bear the contribution to the debate made by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes).  Nobody knows the right honorable gentleman .better than I do. t was very closely associated with him when he was a member of the Australian Labour party, and I knew his wonderful capacity in those days. No man could flog our opponents in the same biting and eloquent language as that used by the right honorable gentleman in those days. He has not lost all of that capacity. As a matter nf fact, flashes of his former brilliance could be detected during his speech last night. The right honorable gentleman used to say things in those early days before he recanted which caused great delight in my young lii-.art. I was very sorry to notice his descent to A vcm us, when I listened to him in the House of Representatives last night. He did not tackle one vital part of the statement made by the Leader nf the Opposition regarding this unsavoury subject. As a. matter of fact hf endeavoured to make it appear - and his remarks  would not deceive anybody with even a smattering of the facte - that the party to which we belong was the champion of communism. He touched on everything except the one thing that mattered, that, for the first time in the history of this federation a government had sunk so low as to establish an organization controlled by officers of its own political colour charged with! the duty of lining nothing else but spreading that particular political propaganda and supplying people secretly with funds  belonging  to the people of this country for that purpose. The right honorable gentleman did everything but touch the real gravamen of the subject. It is not new in this chamber for government, representatives to endeavour to make  out  that the Labour party is supporting communism. Last night in the House of Representatives that charge was definitely laid against us. Flinging his arms in the air, in his inimitable style, the AttorneyGeneral said, " Why, there are men sitting opposite who are supporting communism. Why do they not come out and denounce it?". Anybody listening to him would believe he had deceived himself n to thinking that :what he said was true. However, the right honorable gentleman had all the information at his finger tips; he knew only too well that those statements were not only deliberately untrue but also slanderous as far as we were concerned. Before any member of the Labour party can take his seat in this Parliament, unless he is dishonest, he has to sign this pledge - 
I,................. hereby pledge myself not to oppose the candidates selected by the recognized political Labour organizations, and, if elected, to do my utmost to carry out the principles embodied in the Australian Labour party's platform, and on all questions affecting the platform to vote as a majority of the parliamentary party may decide at a duly constituted caucus meeting. 
We should never have witnessed the lynching of Menzies if honorable senators opposite had been pledged to something like that. 'The declaration continues, "I hereby declare that I am not a member of a Communist organization or party ". The Attorney-General is aware of that pledge. 
From the rules and constitution of the Australian Labour party.- There is no Australian Democratic "Front propaganda in that, nor a. word of propaganda of any kind. In order to show how low the Government and those who speak for it have descended, I point out that they are just as fully aware as we are that a meeting of the federal executive of the Australian Labour party was held in Sydney last Saturday. The Government is paying its Investigation Branch and the Australian Democratic Front to know of such meetings. Yet the Prime Minister stands up in the House of Representatives and makes these false statements. He and his supporters know that that meeting of the federal executive of the Australian Labour party was attended by two duly elected delegates from each State. They also know that that meeting carried a definite resolution that the Australian Labour party shall have nothing to do not only with the Communist party but any other " snide " organization which is engineered under an innocent guise and high-sounding title, but does not believe in democracy, constitutional reform or parliamentary action. At least those who speak for those organizations do not believe in such ideals. The federal executive of our party at that meeting also decided that every member of the party must abide by the pledge -which I have just read, and must have nothing to do with communism, either in its open form or in the "snide" organizations under which it sometimes masquerades. 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- The Minister for Munitions knows what that honorable member did, and he also knows why his leader, the Prime Minister, lied about it. That honorable member was the only man in our party to adopt the attitude he did. 
SenatorFoll. - Why did  Senator Amour  and  Senator Armstrong  leave the party? ' 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- The Minister for the Interior knows that the gentlemen he has mentioned left our party. He also knows perfectly well that they were out of our party for a very brief period, and returned to the party of which they are members to-day. He also knows that whenever these two honorable senators rise in their places in this chamber to chastise the Government, honorable senators opposite feel most uncomfortable. 
SenatorFoll. - Why did they have to brand themselves non-Communists? 
SenatorCOLLINGS.- Every honorable senator on this side was sorry when our two friends left our party, and every one of us was overjoyed when they came back. Nothing that any honorable senator opposite can say will drive a wedge between honorable senators on this side. The sixteen members of the Opposition in this chamber are definitely decided on every plank of the platform of the Australian Labour party as enunciated in this booklet and also on another plank, which does not appear in this booklet, namely, that at the earliest possible moment honorable senators opposite are bo be removed from the Government benches. There is much in the Prime Minister's statement that can only be described as pure verbiage; the language is pure enough, but it is employed in anything but a pure way. It is quite unnecessary to refer in detail to the statement. Incidentally, I thank the Leader of the Senate  (Senator McLeay)  for his courtesy in making copies of it available to members of the Opposition. The Prime Minister, in his statement, said - 
I come now to an extension of the system of special funds which took place in February, 1940. 
All the talk by supporters of the Government in the House of Representatives in defence of the Government's action in this matter was based on a statement that there has been in existence a special fund and a special Investigation Branch since 1916. I make it quite clear that we on this side know that every Government has an Investigation Branch. We know that it has funds which it uses for certain purposes which are never disclosed. However, honorable senators opposite, and those who spoke for them in the House of Representatives lastnight, know that the Opposition has never, at any time, taken exception to that fact. They also know that one of the funds to which the Prime Minister referred was operated, not by the Government, but by the Commonwealth Police Department. I was abroad in the land when the Attorney-General created this organization in 1940. He has a most disastrous habit of creating organizations when he is hurt. I was also walking about in the town of Warwick in Queensland when the famous Warwick egg was thrown. 
No, because I did not believe that an egg, however old or distasteful, could properly express my detestation of the right honorable gentleman. I would not waste an egg, even a rotten one, on him. I knew the man who threw the egg. In fact, he had two or three shots before he scored a hit He  finally  waited so close to the AttorneyGeneral that he practically placed the egg on him. I certainly do not admire that sort of conduct. I have had eggs thrown at me, but I have never squealed. However, I have never had an egg thrown at me by any of my friends, but by men who support the party of honorable senators opposite. The Warwick egg incident led to a political upheaval. The Attorney-General himself said at the time that he saw a railway employee with a spanner ready to do him serious injury. I saw that particular fettler on the railway line, and in his hand he held an ordinary engineer's spanner with which he was doing his job. He was stooping down and tapping each, wheel of the train as it went past. If a wheel gave the right ring it was all Tight, but if not it was noted for repairs and duly sent to the repair shop. That fettler did not do any harm to the Attorney-General. However, the innocent Warwick egg gave birth to the Commonwealth Police Force; and in 1940, because the Government was facing political extinction at the hands of the Labour party, the Attorney-General gave birth to another monstrosity, the Australian Democratic Front. I shall have something to say about that as I proceed. We took no exception to the setting up of the Commonwealth Investigation Branch, to the establishment of a secret fund - we knew that every government had a secret fund - or to the Government keeping track of subversive elements. Why, this chamber, in common with the House of Representatives, has given so much power to this Government, under the National Security Act, that there was not the slightest reason or excuse for the formation of the Australian Democratic Front. God knows, the Government has power enough under that act to take appropriate action against any man or woman, newspaper, company or institution, indulging in subversive activities. But the Government did not do that. It formed an organization, and instructed the officers of that organization what to do. The Government paid money to that organization, and about the circumstances in which it was paid I shall have something to say in the way of exposure later. This document is really worthy of a careful perusal. I can visualize the day - I trust I shall be here to see it - when documents of this kind will be put into a political museum as evidence of the progress that the community has made since 1941, when such practices were tolerated. Another paragraph of the Prime Minister's statement read - 
On the 5th January, War Cabinet decided in favour of counter-propaganda, and resolved that a conference should be convened of representatives of the Intelligence Branches of the Navy, Army and Air Force, the Commonwealth Investigation Branch, the Police Commissioners of each State and the relevant censorship sections nf the Department of Information. 
The statement goes on to say that on the 23rd January, the conference made a report which included a recommendation for stricter control, through the censorship, of all communist and other publications which showed a desire to indulge in subversive and nearsubversive propaganda. Just what does that mean? What is the import of the words " near-subversive " ? The intention is obvious. The Government knew that it could put its hands on all those engaged in subversive propaganda, just as it did when it interned enemy aliens at the beginning of the war upon a given signal, mid without commotion. The institutions represented  nl  the conference already had all the power necessary to deal with subversive elements, periodicals, &amp;c&gt; and so the words " near-subversive " were added. Surely honorable senators opposite are not entirely devoid of imagination. What is meant by "nearsubversive " ? 
Exactly. It means anything that the Government determines it shall mean when it wants to remove men who are thorns in its side. 
The Department of Information was represented, and that department is controlled by the Government. 
SenatorCOLLINGS. - Does the Minister say that the State governments were represented? 
SenatorFoll. - Police Commissioners from each State were present. 
Of course they were; they are the people who have to give effect to the decisions reached, but if the representatives of the State governments had attended, no resolution including the words " near-subversive " would have been carried, because no decent government would have tolerated it. Those words were specifically inserted in order to give the Commonwealth Government an opportunity, through the Attorney-General, to set up an organization which could attack these so-called "near-subversive " elements. It would have been quite easy to get the other fellow - the subversive element - but he was not wanted ; he was not taking votes from the Government parties. The Government wanted to get the man who went on to the public platform and constituted a danger to the Attorney-General and his colleagues. Confirmation of that is to be found in the following facts :  - It is alleged that nine pamphlets were issued by the Australian Democratic Front, and five of them were reprints of speeches delivered by the Attorney-General.What a wonderful proposition for that right honorable gentleman ! Three officers of the Australian Democratic Front, and the man who gave away the Cabinet secrets, were members of the United Australia party or were doing its work. What a wonderful way to catch the " nearsubversive " elements? 
Neither of the gentlemen to whom the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride)  refers would have sunk so low as to accept the position. What a delightful chapter this is ! It is a damning catalogue of tyranny issued by the Government about itself, andI am surprised at the ignorance of honorable senators opposite. When the next elections come, I shall want no better propaganda than this with which to stump the country. 
We shall see. Obviously, honorable senators opposite are not game to risk it. Their dodging tactics during the last twelve months indicate clearly that they are afraid of an election. We are not. 
The next paragraph of the Prime Minister's statement says that it had been contemplated that the counterpropaganda should be conducted by the Department of Information, although, as honorable senators would agree, "there were considerations both for and against this particular method. Of course there were! One of the real considerations, and one of the main reasons why it was not done through the Department of Information, was that the public would have understood what was afoot. On the other hand, the Australian public knew nothing about the Australian Democratic Front. The Department of Information would have had to work above the ground. This stinking organization formed in February, 1940, worked underground in the political . sewers, and spread its poison just as a squid covers its victim with a cloud of filth before devouring it. The Prime Minister said that in February, 1940, his colleague, the Attorney-General, brought the matter before the full Cabinet. Of course, he did. No doubt the Prime Minister said to himself " What a glorious opportunity for the right honorable member for North Sydney, if I can bulldoze the Cabinet into giving him permission to establish a special fund ". What a wonderful fund it was - a special fund for special purposes, operated by special people doing a special job. The Prime Minister's statement continued - 
. my colleague brought the matter before the full Cabinet, recommended active counter propaganda, and indicated that if Cabinet approved of the principle he could readily organize such propaganda at. he thought, a cost not exceeding £3,000 per annum. 
What a golden opportunity for the Attorney-General ! In one year's operations, this organization, at a cost of £3,000 per annum, issued nine pamphlets, five of which were reprints of the right honorable gentleman's own speeches. I have never heard of anything to equal it. All administrative details were left to the Attorney-General! Yet this is the Government that thinks that it can get from the people of Australia an all-in war effort. That cannot be done while the Government is prepared to do a thing of that kind. A truly responsible government would not have left all the administrative details to its AttorneyGeneral. The Opposition would not have done that. We do not leave details in serious matters to any individual. We accept responsibility for what is done by the Labour party because we always know what is done, but honorable senators opposite, who ought to be men of more than ordinary intelligence, were prepared to allow this nefarious scheme to be hatched and operated by the Attorney-General, leaving all the sordid details to him. 
In my opinion, the Government believed that nobody else would have descended to the dirty work that was delegated to the AttorneyGeneral. The Prime Minister further said - 
My colleague thereafter established relations with a body known as the Australian Democratic Front. 
That is not true. The body was formed first, and then relations were established with it. 
The Government took good care to establish the body first. First,, it had to set up the machinery. When the men had been selected, the office furniture purchased, and the body established, I can imagine the Minister saying : " Boys, this is going to be a sweet thing. Cheques will be paid into a private account which will be opened in Sydney by the Solicitor-General for the specific purpose of establishing relations with the Australian Democratic Front ". We are informed that the SolicitorGeneral, in turn, gave cheques on this account to the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor in Sydney, who cashed them and paid the proceeds into a special account which he opened in another bank. From the funds in this account, he made payments by cash from time to time. For any Government to authorize such conduct is rottenly dishonest and borders on a criminal act.  Senator Spicer  looks astounded, but, as a lawyer, he knows that what I am saying is true. 
-Yes, when they are cashed for this purpose and in this way. Why were not the payments made by cheque? I was in the employ of the Australian Labour party from 1917 to 1931, and I have been a member of this Parliament since 1932, but I have never received any portion of my salary in cash. It has always been paid into my account. Here is another gem from the statement - 
As a general practice, these accounts were vouched for by the organizing secretary of the Australian Democratic Front, and were verified by the Deputy Crown Solicitor, so far as it was possible for him to do so. 
So far as it was possible for him to do so ! I have never heard of anything worse. If I buy an article from a storekeeper for £15 15s., I expect to get that article, and a receipt to show that I have paid that sum for it. The statement continues - 
The same checks as hu ve heretofore prevailed in connexion with special funds, that is, approval by the Attorney-General of any staff employed- 
Here I wish to say a. word about one of the staff employed,  Mr. Barnes.  I know him well. In Queensland many years ago he was a member of the party to which I belong, but, he " ratted " from it, the same as did the Attorney-General. Both of them, having burnt their boats behind them, have bad to accept as the price of their apostasy the crumbs that have fallen from the rich man's table. 
There was one section of the public that got a substantial  quid pro quo  for the subscription of £25,000 to the right honorable gentleman. Nobody has ever seen a statement as to where that money came from, but we know that the Attorney-General received it. I knew about the matter at the time the money was subscribed. I also know what kind of man  Mr. Barnes  was. He was sent to Great Britain as an immigration officer, but he did nothing worth while in return for the salary paid to him. It was never intended that he should give honest service for any of the money paid to him. I know what he has been employed to do since his return to Australia. I know what the predecessors of the present Government did when they employed Adela Pankhurst, now  Mrs. Walsh,  to make trouble on the waterfront among the seamen and the timber workers. The same subversive elements were at work, and in that way the parties forming the present Government won elections and got the Labour party out. of office. Nobody knew by whom the dirty work was being clone. I have been an intimate participant in every phase of this political movement. I met  Mr. Barnes  in Sydney a few weeks ago. I had not seen him for years and would not have known him had he not spoken to me on a railway platform. I remarked, "I suppose you are still doing the same kind of job". I did not then know anything about the Australian Democratic Front. Not until a fewweeks ago has the truth come to my notice. The sum of £5,000 or, to be exact, £4,818 8s.- 4d., was expended in one year by the Australian Democratic Front, and this Government ought to be a shamed of its work. 
Last evening I listened to the debate on this matter in the House of Representatives. On my way to that chamber I met two ladies outside the gallery door. They were not together and they spoke to me at different times. Each of them has a son in the fighting services, one being in the Royal Australian Air Force and the other in the Australian Imperial Force, and both made practically the same remark to me. One of the ladies said : " I cannot stand any more. I have just been listening to the Attorney-General, who is also the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Hughes).  This is the man who is entrusted with a department that is controlling the lives of our boys on' - the other side of the world." They were almost in tears, and tears were not far away from my own eyes. That is the effect that the prancing of the Minister had in the House of Representatives last night. He did not say one honest word the whole time, and honorable senators opposite knew it. They condoned his statement, and let him get away with it. The next to last paragraph in the statement by the Prime Minister reads - 

 All I need add is that, should Parliament, notwithstanding the protection of the public interests afforded by the security of both the Crown law authorities and the AuditorGeneral, desire these facts to be further verified, the Government will have no reluctance whatever to appoint a royal commission to investigate and report. 
Because members of the Opposition object to having the Government's crime on their conscience. We propose to go to the electors, when the opportunity offers, and say to them, " Our hands- are clean ". 
No, I should not be surprised if the honorable senator Who interjects would like to do that. I have very little faith in lawyers. I know how apt they are at special pleading and how they bulldoze witnesses, upset juries and get verdicts. Rather than have an expression of opinion on the matter of this kind from a trained legal man I would pay attention to the views of men off the footplates of the engine, navvies in the streets, or coal-miners in the pits. I know what their reaction would be. They would not have one atom of respect left for a Government that has been guilty of this action. 
I shall be very glad to see it at work and watch all the " snide " tricks to which the legal men on it will resort. 
Because my parents impressed on me the importance of following an occupation that would enable me to earn an honest living. All that the members of the Labour party, both in this chamber and in the House of Representatives, ask is that no serious departure shall be made from the democratic principles which were established some centuries ago. When I was at school I took a keen interest in history, and since I left school I have continued the study of the subject. There was a long and bloody struggle before Parliament secured the right to control the King's purse. In the time of the Stuarts, in the 17th century, that struggle reached its culmination. Honorable senators will know that in the reign of Charles I., the struggle reached the proportions of a civil war, which led to the execution of the King in 1649. I do not want to see members of the Government beheaded physically, but, following these disclosures, I shall do my best to see that they are beheaded politically. Oliver Cromwell did his work in 1649 and when, in 1660, Charles II. ascended the throne, the control of the King's purse passed to the Parliament. The terms under which William of Orange accepted the throne in 1688, when James II., the last of the Stuarts, fled during the revolution of that year, included the principle of parliamentary control of the King's purse. If honorable senators will read the question which  Mr. Curtin  asked in the House of Representatives, they will find that he asked only that there should be no departure from that hard-won privilege of parliamentary control. This Parliament has never been asked to vote money to the Australian Democratic Front. 
No, no! 
I never suggested it. 
Parliament has acted in this way for 25 years. 
I have imperfectly expressed my detestation of what has gone on. I realize the restraint imposed upon me by the necessity to choose moderate language in condemnation of what I believe to be a real political crime. I say now, in conclusion, that, if the people of this country had known in September of last year what was going on in order to keep the present Government in power-- 
Has the honorable senator read the pamphlets? 
In view of the announcement in the -other branch of the legislature that a royal commission i,s to be appointed to inquire into the leakage of secret information and the other matters referred to in the statement made in the Senate yesterday by its Leader  (Senator McLeay),  I shall not speak at great length. I understand that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  has acceded to the request of the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Curtin)  that the Leaders of the Government and Opposition parties in that House will confer in relation to the terms of reference to the royal commission. Now that the matter is to bo investigated by a royal commission, it should be left to that body to sift the evidence thoroughly, and then to report back to Parliament. It is not my intention, or desire, either to prejudge the case or to traverse the ground which has already been thoroughly covered by speakers on both sides of the other chamber. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Collings)  said that the whole subject under discussion was distasteful to him, but, I may be pardoned for saying that he appeared to relish the opportunity to indulge in an oratorial  outburst against his erstwhile colleague, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes),  who is now his political antagonist. It is not right that the Attorney-General should be called upon to bear the whole of the responsibility for what has taken place. 
The Leader of the Opposition has quoted from the statement of the Prime Minister, in which he explained how the Australian Democratic Front came into existence. It was pointed out that on the 5th January last, the War Cabinet decided that counter-propaganda was necessary in order to destroy the effect of subversive propaganda. The Leader of the Opposition suggested that the resolution of the conference referred to by the Prime Minister might have been worded in the interests of the Government, but the fact is that the Government took no part whatsoever in that conference. I remember well that not only the War Cabinet, but also the advisers to Service Ministers, were insistent on the need for propaganda to counteract subversive activities throughout the country. If honorable senators will take their minds back to the.. time when that conference was held, they will recall that subversive elements in the community were causing a good deal of concern, not only to the Government, but also to the Opposition. Without any desire to make party political capital out of the situation, I remind the Senate that, at that time, the Labour party was temporarily divided because of the existence of subversive elements in the community. It will be remembered that Senators Amour and Armstrong left the Labour party for a time, and that in the other chamber,  Mr. Beasley  and five other members did the same. They found it necessary to form another party in order to make clear that they were not tainted with communism. I call to mind the announcement by  Senator Amour  that he had been appointed Leader of the Labour party, Non-communist, in the Senate. I do not say that the existence of subversive tendencies among members of the parliamentary Labour party was obvious, but I do say that certain members of that party left it because of the existence of subversive elements in the community, and because action by that party to prevent their activities was not sufficiently strong. The fact remains that they left their comrades as a protest. If the Labour party, which was in opposition, found itself in such a difficult position because of these subversive tendencies that men had to leave the party, it is only reasonable to assume that the Government took steps to counteract subversive activities in the community. No one knows better than does  my colleague, the Minister for Munitions  (Senator McBride),  that at that time subversive elements were far more active in industries associated with the country's war effort than in other industries, because in that way the greatest damage could be done. We know that key industries such as the iron and steel industry and the coal industry, upon which the war production of this country depends to such a vital degree, were selected for this form of subversive activity by Communists, or, if my friend, the Leader of the Opposition prefers the term "nearCommunists ". The honorable senator himself knows that even in his own State the activities of Communists or near-Communists have even found their way into the ranks of the State Labour party. So great has been the inroads of Communist propaganda in the State Labour party that two of his colleagues have had to be suspended for taking partin Communist activities. Is it not natural to assume that if that is going on in the ranks of the Labour party, it is likewise going on in the industrial organizations, upon which this country is so dependent is this critical time? The Government was so concerned about these antiAustralian activities that it called into consultation those who would best be able to advise it as to the steps that should be taken to counteract them. My friend, the Leader of the Opposition, asks why the (fenders were not gaoled? What happened when two men who definitely set themselves out to injure the war industries of this country were gaoled? They immediately resorted to the medium of hunger-striking in order to focus the attention of the people on their plight. Pleas were sent out to high Heaven on their behalf. Did any honorable senator opposite say that those who went out on strike even for 24 hours were doing a foolish thing because they were holding up the production of essential war materials and equipment for our soldiers ab road? Was any plea made by honorable senators opposite that the strikers should go back to work? Was any appeal made by them to the textile workers when they went out on strike and held up the supply of equipment and uniforms for the men overseas? Was any appeal made by any honorable senator opposite when the construction of the munition factory at Ballarat was held up at a time when the Department of the Interior was urged by the Department of Munitions to complete the job as quickly as possible? In that instance, the men walked off the job in spite of the fact that every form of industrial machinery was made available to them in order that their claims might be heard promptly by the court. Did any honorable senator opposite make an appeal to the men who walked off the Heidelberg Hospital job, the completion of which was so urgently needed so that the wounded who were returning from overseas could be properly cared for? The construction of the Heidelberg Hospital was held up for weeks, in spite of the fact that award rates of pay and conditions were observed, and every facility was given to the men to ensure that they got a fair deal. Special conciliation commissioners were appointed by the Government in order that the hearing of the claims of all workmen would be expedited. 
SenatorCollings. - Did the Australian Democratic Front do anything to prevent the strike? 
I shall come to that directly. Was any, appeal made by any honorable senator opposite when the work of the brass foundry was held up in spite of the fact that it was commonly known that brass was one of the bottle-necks in the production of munitions? What will our soldiers overseas think of what is occurring? The War Cabinet was naturally very concerned at these constant interruptions. The Advisory War Council was so much concerned that, finally, a joint appeal was issued by  Mr. Curtin  and  Mr. Fadden  urging men not to strike, not to be led away by subversive activities, but to stay on the job. However, despite that appeal, strikes continued to slow down our war production. The Government, then decided to call a conference of the people who could best advise it how to counteract the pernicious influence of those engaged in subversive activities. 
Nobody could have said anything about it because at that stage it did not exist. The conference consisted of representatives of the intelligence branches of the Navy, Army and Air Force, the Commonwealth Investigation Branch, the Police Commissioners of each State and the relevant censorship sections of the Department of Information. There could not possibly have been any political complexion in a body the members of which had such diversified interests. The Police Commissioners in the States are not branded with any particular political colour, and as far as the censorship people in my own department are concerned, I know nothing of their political affiliations. The intelligence officers of the three fighting services are quite independent of political control. The conference resolved that the proper way to deal with subversive activities was to set up a form of counterpropaganda against the preaching of those who advocated strikes and a "goslow " policy. The recommendations of the conference were given very careful consideration by the Government. It was thought at first that this work might very well be undertaken by the Department of Information, but, after consideration, it was realized that had propaganda been disseminated through the Department of Information it might have been regarded as having a political colouring. Personally, I have my own views as to whether or not this work should have been undertaken by the Department of Information. At any rate, it was decided that the propaganda should be handled by the AttorneyGeneral, who controlled the Commonwealth Investigation Branch. The duty devolved upon the Attorney-General to set up an organization to counter these anti-Australian activities. We know now that the right honorable gentleman formed the organization known as the Australian Democratic Front. 
Every shilling expended for this or any other purpose has first to be placed on the Estimates in the usual way. Does .the honorable senator think for a moment that it would be possible to subject every single item  of expenditure to parliamentary approval? What do honorable senators suppose would have happened had the Government approached the Parliament, and said, " We propose to set up a body to be known as the Australian Democratic Front. We propose to appoint  Mr. Christie  as  president  and  Mr. Barnes  as secretary. The expenses of the organization are to be met by the Government. It is to be used for the purpose of disseminating counter-propaganda." ? 
I agree; even if we had got it it would have been worthless. My own view is that the good work that this organization has been doing is now completely undone. I do not see thai any future good can come out of its activities in view of the discussion that has taken place in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. The Leader of the Opposition especially dealt with the position of the AttorneyGeneral and of  Mr. Barnes,  the secretary of the Australian Democratic Front. The honorable senator said that he knew  Mr. Barnes,  and the greatest, crime he could lay at his door was Ohe fact that he was once a Labour man, and that when the great test came in 1917, and  Mr. Barnes  had to decide whether to put his party first or his country first,  Mr. Barnes  went, with  Mr. Hughes.  We know that there were thousands more who believed as they did. It is because those thousands of people believed in  Mr. Hughes  and in what he and  Mr. Barnes  did that the Labour party has been in the wilderness of opposition in this Parliament since 1916, and is likely to remain in that position for many years to come. What were  Mr. Barnes's  activities in connexion with countering subversive propaganda? Even his bitterest enemies would concede that he is a very capable public  speaker,  and that he knows the psychology of those engaged in industry.  Mr. Barnes  visited some of the south coast areas, the northern districts and other areas where our great war industries are being carried on. He was not engaged in political discussions, but has endeavoured to make the workers see the danger of harbouring undesirable elements in the community. He did not go there for the purpose of eulogizing the Attorney-General. 
The fact that the Attorney-General has made frequent appeals for unity is all to his credit. It is a pity that more of his speeches were not read and digested by many of those who are stirring up industrial unrest, and it is a pity that his advice was not taken more freely by those employed in industries which have suffered as the result of pernicious propaganda.  Mr. Barnes  did not accept office as secretary of the organization in order to make money out of it. I understand that he is paid at the same salary as he was receiving in private employment before be accepted the position. 
I do not know what his salary is. He may be paid  £500  a year. If, as the result of his efforts to stamp out subversive activities there is a little less industrial unrest, less interference in some of our war industries, he is well worth that salary and a good deal more. The Australian Democratic Front was set up by the Government. The Attorney-General was appointed by his colleagues in the Cabinet to do this work, and he has done it in the way he thought best for the purpose of countering subversive propaganda in this country. Much discussion has taken place concerning the manner in which these disclosures were first made. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, a traitorous public servant approached the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives with copies of documents containing statements that may, or may not, have been true.. If such statements disclosed secrets taken from confidential Government cablegrams, this man thereby com mitted a felony which, particularly in time of war, is deserving of the most drastic punishment. 
He spent the whole of his life in the Labour party, and he was an employee of the Labour party up to the time he joined the Commonwealth Public Service. 
No. 
The honorable senator's colleagues from New South Wales know a great deal of the history of this man. However, regardless of his politics, his action was most dastardly. I regret to think that there ever was one, man in the Public Service that could do what he did. I commend the action of the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives in bringing this matter to the notice of the Government. Iu view of the fact that the Government has decided to appoint a royal commission to investigate this matter I shall say nothing at this stage as to whether money was paid to the  president  of the Miners Federation. However, money was set aside for a definite purpose, and if its expenditure has resulted in countering subversive activities in this country such expenditure has been warranted. I believe that honorable senators opposite realize just as much as I do that subversive activities are still being carried on in this country, and that such activities must be countered. Whether it is done in this way, or in any other way, I hope that such work will be continued successfully. 
I disagree entirely with the Minister for the Interior  (Senator Foll)  that nothing further should be mentioned at this stage about the  president  of the Miners' Federation,  Mr. Nelson,  in this matter.  J.  could comment on many aspects of the statement now being debated. For instance, I violently disagree with the methods used by the Attorney- General  (Mr. Hughes)  in making payments out of this fund. However, I intend to confine my remarks to the aspect that a very grave injustice has been done to one of the most powerful industrial organizations in the Commonwealth. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Eadden)  in his statement said that the  president  of the Miners Federation,  Mr. Nelson,  and another official of the federation, about whose identity the Attorney-General is not certain, called upon the AttorneyGeneral in his office in Sydney. The statement then goes on to say, in effect, that the  president  of the federation received the sum of £300 to cover travelling expenses for which provision has already been made by the federation.' I quote the following from to-day's  Canberra  Times: - 

 Mr. Hughes then told of being visited by  Mr. Nelson. 

 Mr. Hughes said that  Mr. Nelson  told him that he and the secretary of his union were anxious to put into operation a policy of continuity of industry during the war. It was for that purpose the leaflets and speeches were written. Nelson told him that his organization contained Communists who were opposed to any attempt to follow out this policy and he, therefore, asked the Government to make money available.  Mr. Hughes  said he consulted with the then Acting 'Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden)  and the money was made available. 
No proof has yet been provided that  Mr. Nelson  received any payment whatever from this fund. So far as we know the money alleged to have been paid to him was handled by several persons, and it has not yet been proved whether  Mr. Nelson  was the final recipient, or that be at any time actually received any of this money. Consequently, a grave injustice has been done to this man, who is the head of what, is probably the biggest industrial organization in this country. He is now under a cloud. To-day, he is suffering as the result of statements and innuendoes attributed in press reports to his colleagues and to members of this Parliament. Itis alleged 'by some people without an atom of proof that he has been bribed. I was glad to hear the Minister say that the Government will appoint a royal commission to investigate payments from this fund. However, in view of the damage done to  Mr. Nelson's  character, and that of other officials of this great industrial organization, we cannot afford to wait for a disclosure of the facts through such an investigation. In to-day's Sydney  Daily Telegraph  the following statement is attributed to  Mr. Nelson  : - 
Referring to the allegation that he had received £300 from the secret fund  Mr. Nelson  said: "If any such money was paid, it was never received by me in any shape or form. It is wrong to say that I or" any other official of the Miners Federation, either together or alone, visited the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  about the matter. 
What are the facts about the payment of this £300? According to the statement before us the Attorney-General possesses a receipt for that sum signed " J"-!.. Winkler ". No other receipt has been produced. The Minister for the Interior said a little while ago that Winkler was a member of the Labour party in New South Wales. He was an employee of a Labour paper, but he wac never employed by the Australian Labour party. Further, he was " sacked " from the Labour paper which employed him because his ethics did not meet with the approval of that paper. Yet the Government asks us to regard as authentic proof a receipt signed by this man to the effect that he paid the sum of £300 to the' president of the Miners Federation, one of the biggest industrial organizations in this country, and to believe that the latter accepted it as a bribe to influence this great organization to carry out the wishes of this Government. Such an allegation is absurd. 
That is so. If this money were really paid to  Mr. Nelson  why has no proof of that fact been provided? Surely Winkler would have received some form of receipt from  Mr. Nelson  to show that the latter had received the money. Was the Government prepared merely to accept Winkler's word  that he paid this money to somebody else? The statement made by the Attorney-General lacks conviction. He has simply stated that, the money was paid over. After hearing the AttorneyGeneral defend himself in the House of 
Representatives, I am not prepared to accept his word in preference to the word of the  president  of the Miners Federation. The Attorney-General also said that another official of the Miners Federation is involved, another official whose identity he does not know. At one stage he indicated that that other official was the general secretary of the federation, but when that official denied that he was the person, the Attorney-General said that he was not sure who the other official was. If the Attorney-General makes money available to any individual in this country from public funds, then it is only fair that this Parliament should be enabled to discover the final recipients of such payments 
I hope so. However, I fear that such an inquiry will drag on for weeks or months, and, in the meantime, the characters of the officials of the Miners Federation will remain under a cloud. We should do everything in our power immediately in order to protect those men. On Tuesday morning I had the opportunity to meet the  president  and the secretary of the" Northern Miners Branch, which is the most powerful branch of the Miners Federation. The secretary,  Mr. Simpson,  is an Australian of a particularly fine type. He is a cleanliving gentleman, and bears an excellent character. To-day, however, through no fault of his own, his character is under a cloud. A short while ago he was married, and out of his savings built a nice little home for himself and his wife. Since these allegations have been published his political enemies have circulated rumours among some lodges that, perhaps,  Mr. Simpson  received some of this money. He and the  president  and vice-president of the Northern Miners Branch are so deeply concerned over this matter, that they have assured me that unless the Government takes determined action very quickly to publish the full facts they intend to recommend to their Branch Council to-morrow that the miners in all of the northern pits cease work. The Government asked the miners to co-operate in the maintenance of industrial peace, and despite the fact that that co-operation has been promised, these allegations have been made, and a cloud thrown over all miners' officials. That i3 not fair. These men occupy responsible positions. In the north, the three men to whom I have referred could, by signing a cheque, decamp with £80,000 of the miners' funds. Probably  Mr. Nelson  would have an even bigger fund under his control, yet the Government has suggested that he was prepared to be bribed for £300. On the face of it, the argument is absurd. Whilst these allegations remain unanswered, how can the Government expect trade union officials to co-operate with it. Any trade union official who is prepared to go to Melbourne, Adelaide, or any other place, and have his travelling expenses paid by the Government, is, if we accept the Prime Minister's reasoning, immediately suspect. To-day,  Mr. Nelson  is suspect. He has been one of the industrial militants and some of us are wondering if the allegations against him have been made in order to shatter his reputation in the trade union movement. Whether that is or is not the case, we do not know, but it seems to be a. distinct possibility. I am very pleased that the Minister has given an assurance that the whole of the facts are to be ventilated. I sincerely hope that that will be done quickly in order that these men may have their names cleared. I believe that in order to maintain a democratic government, it is necessary for the people to have confidence in their leaders. They must believe that the government and its officers are imbued with the principle of integrity. In times of stress such as the present, it is unfortunate that a fund has to be used for such purposes, although the Government has claimed that it is necesary. Surely there are ways in which that money could be properly accounted for, so that responsible people such a3 trade union leaders would not be so reflected upon as to make the appointment of a royal commission necessary. I sincerely hope that the Government will take an early opportunity to set up the royal commission, in order that these men may prove to their comrades in the trade union movement that the allegations made against them are untrue, as I believe they are. 
I did not intend to participate in this debate, but the matters which have been ventilated during the last two days are of such vital importance to the community that I feel impelled to deal with them. I listened with interest to the Minister for Information  (Senator .Foll),  who attempted to justify the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  when he made his apologia in the House of Representatives, and endeavoured to fasten the tag of communism upon honorable senators on this side of the chamber. The Minister said that the Labour party was divided by Communist activities. I happen to belong to that section of the Labour party which did not accuse others of being engaged in Communist activities. If, in the heat of debate, and in the tense situation which was created about that time, certain charges were made, it does not necessarily follow that those charges rested on a solid foundation. The Minister also said that a secret fund had been in existence for years, and that these activities had. been going on over a long period. That is merely an attempt to cloud the issue, and to confuse the minds of the people who are likely to read the explanations that are being made. The fund which the Minister for Information attempted to ally with this secret fund established early last year was brought into being as a result of the activities of one or two hens which became famous without knowing it, and by means of their product, were able to make history at a plate named Warwick many years ago, on the occasion when the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  visited that district in the course of a conscription campaign, and attempted to justify the introduction of conscription. I well remember the occasion and, although I did not actually smell the eggs, I felt the reaction as far south as Sydney. The organization that was set  Tip  then was generally referred to as the Commonwealth Secret Police- I  think that the correct name was the Commonwealth Investigation Branch- and its purpose was to unearth persons who were carrying on subversive activities, and to locate men who were willing to do a bit of spying. I mention that merely to indicate that the AttorneyGeneral, like the Minister for Information, has attempted to cloud the issue. Apparently nothing would have suited these gentlemen better than, with the aid of the press, to fasten the Communist bogy upon us. Now I understand that a royal commission is to be set up. I believe that it will do some good if it is appointed expeditiously, because until an exhaustive inquiry is made the officers of the miners' organizations are suspect. I hope that the royal commission will act without delay, and that its operations will be extended to inquire into these matters which have been responsible for that industrial unrest, which the organization referred to was set up to curb. Perhaps I may be able to offer a little advice in regard to the methods by which the unrest could be curbed. Quite recently a prominent parliamentarian returned to Australia from England and said that he was sorry to be coming back to take part in the "diabolical game of politics ". I ask honorable senators could there be anything more diabolical than attacking, slandering and accusing people by means of innuendo? I hope that the royal commission will inquire into the causes of industrial unrest, and that the history of events during the last war will be brought before it. During the war of  1914-1S,  I happened to be on the executive of a powerful organization, the Amalgamated Engineers Union. That organization received a communication from the then Minister for Defence requesting it - I assume other organizations were also notified - to call off all industrial disputes, and to bend all energies towards a successful prosecution of the war. At that time my organization was engaged in a nonunionist campaign, which had almost reached finality. At the moment when the request was made, we were in the middle of a struggle with one of those octopus groups in this country, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited. and for the first time  in the history of our organization, we felt that we had it where we wanted it. However, we acceded to the Minister's request, and called off all industrial disputes. We did so on the promise that in return there would be no pin-pricking restrictions, no changes of policy, and no changes in the relationship between employer and employee, without a conference with, and the acquiescence of, our organization. I do not wish to go into the many ramifications of the matter, but early in 1917, in common with other executive officials, we realized that the employers intended to force a strike. We knew that ultimately we should have to take up the challenges that were being thrown down to us. What happened in 1917 when an attempt was made to introduce the American Taylor card system. We thought that we might as well fight on that issue as on any other. We took up that challenge and everyone knows the result of the fight. I mention that to show that conditions have not changed. In the early days of this war, the Commonwealth Government was anxious to have a 100 per cent, war effort throughout the munitions industries, and particularly in the metal trades. The metal workers' organization was approached with a view to obtaining a guarantee of continuity of work. A conference was called and a dilution agreement was entered into whereby the unionists who had built up certain industrial conditions after many years of struggle were prepared to abrogate some of their vital principles in a spirit of patriotism, in order that the output of munitions might be expedited. One clause in the agreement permitted a skilled labourer to be elevated to the position of a fitter. In many cases, in connexion with repetition work, a labourer, having been employed for a number of years in the company of a fitter, becomes fairly proficient at fitting, and, with a little tuition, can no doubt do the work almost as well as the fitter. It was agreed to allow skilled labourers to act as fitters, but only in the factories in which they had worked as skilled "labourers. It was not permissible under the agreement to bring a man from a distant factory and elevate him to the position of a fitter if his status in that factory had been that of a skilled labourer.  We found  afterwards that Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was violating that clause at Port Kembla. When the matter was .brought before the Arbitration Court, Judge O'Mara said that, under the National Security Regulations, the agreement did not cover Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, which continued to dilute its labour until the regulations were tightened up. That action displays that the same tendency exists in this war as prevailed in the last war. Those of us who remember what happened in the last war are naturally chary about accepting any conditions unless they are backed by adequate assurances. In the present war, the employees of engineering firms in the Old Country declared at the outset that before they would give a guarantee of a 100 per cent, output, they wanted an adequate guarantee that they would not be subjected to " double-crossing " similar to that experienced during the last war. 
If a genuine effort were made to discover and remedy the  causes  of industrial unrest, it would be unnecessary to set up the so-called Australian Democratic Front. Many statements have been made about, the coming of a new social order, and there are many conceptions of  what  that new order will be. The Opposition claims that a definite guarantee in the form, of an instalment of the new order might lead to an increased war effort in the metal and other trades. The employees realize that one of the results of the last war, which was said to have been waged in order to make the world safe for democracy and fit for heroes to live in, resulted merely in a man-made depression. That depression, however, may yet prove to have been a blessing in disguise. My observations show me that, prior to that depression, it would have been difficult to find half a dozen State or Commonwealth parliamentarians capable of carrying on half an hour's intelligent discussion on public finance, but to-day, all men employed on relief work take a lively interest in the financial affairs of Australia. Almost every other man one meets in the street knows more about public finance than did the average member of Parliament some years ago. 
Finance was once regarded by the work ing man as scientific wizardry which was beyondhis powers of conception, hut his former ignorance has been, replaced by considerable understanding of financial matters. I hope that,when the royal commission is appointed, it will meet immediately and carry out its work expeditiously. There will be no necessity for a long-drawn-out inquiry. I hope that the commission will delve into the ca uses of industrial unrest and thus make secret organizations unnecessary. I hope that the Government will regard every hour between now and the time when the commission presents its report as a period of agony for those who, by innuendo, have become suspect with their fellow workers. 
I am pleased to have heard the announcement by the Minister for In formation  (Senator Foll)  that the Government intends to appoint a royal commission to investigate this matter, and it will be interesting to read the terms of reference to the commission. The reasons advanced by the Government for the operations of the secret organization under discussion will astound the people. 
They certainly should be. 
Not at all, but I am not the only person who recognizes the fact that certain statements, other than those that have been revealed, have been made regarding the operations of the secret organization. I have yet to learn whether the people will be satisfied with the methods by which the Government is carrying out secret investigations. Does the Australian Democratic Front exist in every State of the Commonwealth or are its operations confined to New South Wales? I understand that it has an office in Martin-place, Sydney, but I have not heard of any office occupied by it elsewhere. I should like to know the extent of this organization's activities. 
SenatorFRASER.- Evidently the honorable senator places great reliance on royal commissions, but in the past some of these bodies have not achieved a great deal. Honorable senators opposite appear to be willing to agree to public moneys being expended for purposes of which this Parliament has not approved. It is significant that the Australian Democratic Front was established shortly before the last general elections at which the present Government was returned with a greatly reduced majority. We have the statement of the honorable member for Martin  (Mr. McCall)  in the House of Representatives that the Government contemplated organizing an Industrial strike in order to enable the Government to contest an election on the issue of " law and order ". It may be hat this organization was set up by the Attorney-General in order to foment industrial strife. 
I do. I believe the statement made by  Mr. McCall. 
Of course he did. but that does not necessarily say that the charge was not well founded.  Mr. McCall  is a responsible member of the party to which the honorable senator belongs. Does the honorable senator think that he would make a statement to the press containing an accusation against the Prime Minister unless it were wellfounded ? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown).  - Honorable senators are not entitled to reflect upon other honorable senators or upon members of the House of Representatives. 
I am not saying something which I have imagined ; I am re pea ting what has been said by a responsible member of the other branch of the legislature. I am reminded of the boy who was with his father in the street when a number of motor ears were passing to and fro. He pointed to various oats, and said, " That is a  Studebakeror  " That is an  Oldsmobile",  and so on. Approaching them was a somewhat dilapidated Ford car, and the father said to the lad, " What kind of a car is that? " The boy replied, " It is a  bitzer".  The Government is like that car ; it is a "bitzer", a government of parts. The statement' presented to the Senate contains the following paragraph : - 
As a general practice these accounts were vouched for by the organizing secretary of the Australian Democratic Front, a.nd were verified by the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor so far as it was possible for him to do so. 1 ask honorable senators opposite whether theY, as business men, would act in that ay in their own businesses. Would they authorize the secretary of an outside organization  to expend money on" their behalf? The statement which I have just read contains the admission that these -iccounts were not always verified by the Deputy Crown Solicitor. Surely that is unsatisfactory. 
The statement also contains a reference to  Mr. C  H. Nelson, the  president  of the Miners Federation. I do not know  Mr. Nelson,  but for the cloud which is hanging over him to-day the Government is responsible, because the Prime Minister has publicly charged him with receiving a sum of money. I wish to know whether the royal commission will l)p empowered to investigate that charge, as well as other aspects of this matter which have not been revealed in this Parliament, or whether it will merely .be handed a copy of the Prime Minister's statement and be expected to furnish a report on the information contained in it. In an endeavour to mislead the people this statement has been presented to Parliament. It goes on to say - 
Accordingly, with the authority of the Attorney-General and myself, three separate payments, each of £100, were authorized. 
It is alleged that the first payment of £100 for transmission to  Mr. Nelson  was made on the 8th March, and that two days later another £100 was paid out for transmission to him, and that on the 20th March a similar sum was made available. Was any investigation made before the second and third payments were authorized? 
Of course it is. The signature on the receipt does not indicate that  Mr. Nelson  received the money, and therefore I ask what authority there is for saying that the money was paid to him. The receipt is signed " J. Winkler ". I am not prepared to accept the Prime Minister's statement as setting out the whole of the facts, and therefore I welcome a full investigation. I desire, however, that it shall in fact be a thorough inquiry, and not confined to the statement presented to the Parliament. The whole of the facts should bc probed. The statement continues - 
The Government has gone to some pains to make ite statement complete, because it feels that thu public are entitled to satisfaction on such mutters. 
I agree with that part of the statement, and I hope that the royal commission will be empowered to investigate every aspect of these transactions and of this unsavoury phase of government administration. The whole of the facts should be revealed to the public. 
I participate in this debate at the request of certain officials associated with the mining industry, and shall be brief in my references to this public scandal. The first that I heard of the rumours and disclosures of which the Parliament heard yesterday was on my arrival in Canberra on Wednesday of last week, when I was informed that certain confidential documents had been handed to  Mr. Curtin,  the Leader of the Labour party in the House of Representatives, and that copies were in the possession of other persons. As the result of some inquiries which I have made I am. convinced that this matter would never have been made public had it not been for the intrigue between the United Australia party and the United Country party during the last twelve months in an endeavour to "jockey"  Mr. Menzies  out of the Prime Ministership. This afternoon the Minister for Information  (Senator Foll),  in a frenzy of patriotism, exclaimed, "What will our soldiers overseas think of what is occurring?" 
Did it occur to the supporters of the Government that, only a few weeks ago a meeting of members of the "United Australia party was held at Canberra with the object of bringing about unity in the ranks of government supporters and that, at that meeting, the ultimate decision was arrived at that  Mr. Menzies  was to be " jockeyed " out of his position ? During the debate in the House of Representatives it was admitted that, when the matter now under discussion was first introduced, the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes)  suggested that other organizations, religious bodies and individuals received moneys from the secret fund. Even the Prime Minister admitted yesterday that he bacl been informed that religious bodies were concerned in this matter. The honorable gentleman went ou to say that he had been misinformed, and stated definitely that no funds had been paid to any religious body. That fact in itself suggests that if the Prime Minister, the head of the Commonwealth Government had been wrongly informed on this matter, is it not just as likely that a ' mistake has been made in regard to the alleged payments to  Mr. Nelson?  I have known  Mr. Nelson  for over 25 years. In my business dealings with htm I have always found him a.n honest man, with the courage of his convictions,' and one who was never afraid to express them either by the written word or on the public platform. The document which is the subject of the debate this afternoon not. only blackens and besmirches the character of  Mr. Nelson,  but also makes suspect the executive officers of various mining organizations and trade unions right throughout Australia. I shall not be entirely satisfied with the appointment of a royal commission for the purpose of sifting this matter to the bottom. I am afraid that much of the incriminating evidence will have already been destroyed even before the terms of reference of the royal commission are announced. Why has not the other document referred to by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives been produced? So far we have heard only rumours as to its contents. I have been informed that it contains, amongst other things, a copy of a cable- gram that was sent to the former Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  when he was in England by the then Acting Prime Minister  (Mr. Fadden),  complaining that there was general dissatisfaction in Australia on account of the exploitation by the monopolies operating Australian war industries. I want to know whether that is correct. I have been informed, further, that a check was made upon telephone conversations which  Mr. Winkler,  the officer who first brought this matter to the notice of  Mr. Curtin,  had with certain persons in Melbourne, and that the check revealed that he had a telephone conversation with  Mr. Ricketson,  a partner in the firm of J. B. Were and Son, stockbrokers, of Melbourne, a firm of which the ex-Prime Minister was once a director. 
I do not say that it is. Winkler used the telephone in the office of the Minister for Defence Coordination  (Mr. Menzies)  to converse with  Mr. Ricketson,  a member of that firm. Is it a fact that, during the course of that conversation, Winkler said that he had interviewed certain individuals and had conveyed their views to "R.G."? I want to know who "R.G." is. I may be wrong if I suspect that " R.G." is, in fact, the former Prime Minister. These are matters I want to have cleared up. Ever since this scandal was brought to the light of day, the Government, has attempted, to throw a blanket on it. It was not until after this matter had been ventilated in. both Houses of the Parliament that the Prime Minister decided to appoint a royal commission to inquire into it. As I have said, I am not satisfied that a royal commission will ascertain all the facts. The value of a royal commission's report depends upon the personnel of the commission. If the right persons are appointed to act as a royal commission, I shall be quite satisfied, but I fear that the Government will appoint an individual as a single commissioner who will look after its interests and try to smother up this matter as the Government has endeavoured to do ever since it was brought to the notice of the Parliament. During the course of his speech, reference was made by the 
Minister for Information, to two members who left the Labour party. They will be able to speak for themselves and explain to the satisfaction of the Minister why they deserted their former colleagues. The Minister, however, failed to refer to the comments made by some of the party supporting the Government, particularly to the charge that the former Prime Minister had been lynched politically at the party meeting at which it was decided that he should be disposed.. After the dressing-down which the Minister for Information got. in this chamber a few weeks ago from  Senator Crawford,  it ill becomes the honorable gentleman to refer to parties or individuals in this chamber. Never before have I known a Minister to be more humiliated than he was on that occasion. I trust that when the royal commission is appointed it will inquire fully into the matter and that another statement to which I have referred will see the light of day. Only in that way will the trade union officials and others concerned in these allegations get the justice they deserve. The- miners ask for the fullest inquiry. Dealing with the attitude of the members of the Miners Federation in regard to this matter, the following paragraphs appeared in. the press: - 
Rank and file members of thu Miners Federation would demand the truth on " secret fund " charges, " no matter where it leads ". The secretary of the Western .'District of the Federation said this to-day. Allegations that bribes had been paid from a secret federal fund to miners' leaders required immediate investigation, he declared. 
The Federal Government could expect serious trouble on all coal-fields if it made any attempt to hide the full truth. 
That expresses in general terms the views held by miners all over the Commonwealth. For the sake of honest administration I trust that the royal commission will disclose that there has been some degree of justification for the excuses which the 'Government has made. 
At the outset of my remarks may I say that I regret that there were not a sufficient number of men in the House of Representatives last night who believed strongly enough that Australia was the wrong place in which to set up a " snide " organization such as the Australian Democratic Front to cross the floor to vote with the Opposition in order to allow the people to be the judges in this matter. We have been told that a royal commission is to be appointed to inquire into the distribution of moneys from the secret fund. If the royal commissioner is to act like the royal commissioner who inquired into the propriety of  Mr. Treatt,  a member of the New South Wales Mair Government, in reducing the fine imposed on the Abbco Bread Company for " crook " practices, his report will not be of much value to anybody. It will be remembered that the royal commissioner who investigated the Abbco bread scandal reported that  Mr. Treatt  had acted in good faith in reducing a fine imposed on a lot of " crooks ". Will that sort of thing be repeated on this occasion in the interests of the Government? 'I am inclined to think so. I regret that the Government set up an organization like the Australian Democratic Front. I am confident that the conference of intelligence officers of the Army and Navy and representatives of the State police forces which, it is stated, recommended that counterpropaganda be undertaken to offset subversive activities, would not have favoured the setting up of an organization of that kind. The Government, on ite own initiative, established that body. For this purpose, it selected a number of deadbeat United Australia party supporters. It? action was wrong in principle; but it had to do something in order to rehabilitate itself. It had: to buy somebody, and, it has been admitted, that the Attorney-General himself moved the motion for the election of the executive of the Australian Democratic Front. That organization was paid the sum of £4,500 to conduct work of a kind which stinks in the nostrils of the people. If the Government really believed that it was justified in undertaking such work in this way, it should have been prepared to go to the country on this issue in order to allow the people to pass judgment on iti action. However, the Government places its faith in the last throw. It believes that, by appointing a royal commission of inquiry, the matter will drag on for weeks, and, in the end, the Government will be whitewashed. It is prepared to allow one person to be made the scapegoat. The Government should disclose the names of the union officials who approached the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes).  It should not, by innuendo, allow suspicion to hang over the heads of every official of the Miners Federation. It has been said that the accounts were audited. The Government agreed that it. was right to expend public funds in this way, yet it took no action to secure a receipt from the final recipient of the money. The Attorney-General possesses a receipt from Winkler only for the sum of £300, which, he alleges, was paid to the  president  of the Miners Federation. Evidently, the Government did not care, to whom the disbursement was finally paid so long as it obtained some sort of a receipt from one person. Certainly, it cannot feel proud of its behaviour in this respect. Not only the Commonwealth Police Force and the Military and Naval Intelligence Branches, as well a? the States police forces, but also the special force which ir set up quite recently, have been employed to do this work of counterpropaganda. The publication by the Australian Democratic Front of pamphlets featuring speeches 'by the AttorneyGeneral was just another form of propaganda in the interests of the Government. In one of those speeches, the Attorney-Central advocates that all persons who are accused of making subversive statements, or are alleged to be Communists, should be stood up against a wall and shot.  We know how subversive elements are dealt with in Russia. But, since the outbreak of the war, the Government has forced the workers in every industry, first, the iron workers and then the engineers and crane drivers, to go on strike before it would agree that those workers should be paid the war loading of 6s. a week. The AttorneyGeneral now -urges the workers to adopt the Russian method of standing up against a wall all persons who are alleged to be Communists, providing, at the same time, of course, that the Australian Democratic Front shall say who are Communists. That is the class of speech that was published in the Australian Democratic Front's pamphlets, which were printed and circulated at the public expense. I trust that the royal commissioner to be appointed will have an Australian outlook, and will do his utmost to uphold our democratic form of government. I trust that if he finds that the AttorneyGeneral, or any officials of any union have been at fault, he will say so fearlessly. I also hope that the inquiry will be conducted expeditiously in order that the characters of the union officials concerned may be cleared as soon as possible. 
I intend to deal with one aspect only of the statement now before the Senate. Included in the document read by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Mcleay)  is the following paragraph: - 
At a conference on the 5th January, the following resolution was carried: - 
Conference suggests that there should he stricter control through the censorship of all Communist and other publications. 
Who are the Communists? That is a question which I should like the Government to answer. In May, 1933, the Melbourne  Argus  published a series of articles dealing with Communists, which included the following observations : - 
Communism has captured the imagination of two classes of .persons who do not know it for the hideous thing it is. One class comprises well-meaning idealists who, strangely enough, affect to see in this anti-Christian movement a. practical application of Christian principles. Their conception of communism is limited to the old slogan, "From each according to his ability; to each according to his need ". In their academic detachment from realities they envisage only an ennobling spirit of mutual help, working in a new and reformed society, in which all private possessions will be pooled for the common good and all will satisfy their needs, irrespective of what they have contributed to the common fund - an impracticable ideal, as history bears witness. 
The second class which has been converted to communism comprises young people who have been drawn in at the most impressionable period of their lives. They have seen many of life's values upset - many old truths called in question - by the events of the Great War and by the troubled period of re-adjustment succeeding the war; ami not unnaturally a spiritual unrest has possessed them. Intellectually unsatisfied, they have craved foi change of some kind, and a radical alteration of the basis of society such as communism stands for has seemed to them to be a possible solution. Unlike the amiable dreamers of the first class of converts, most of whom would be appalled if they were brought face to face with communism' in the persons of its adherents, these young people have come into contact with many of the vile and bitter exponents of the Communist creed, but they have insufficient perception to distinguish between the Communist's ostensible aim and his methods. Without appreciating its real horror, they accept as inevitable, if not desirable, the revolutionary method of inaugurating a Communist regime. Of this class are the hot-blooded university students who .pride themselves upon being " 'intellectuals " and who scorn the paths of political orthodoxy. Many of them will grow out of communism as they acquire years and common, sense; nevertheless, their presence in the movement is a disturbing sign of the growth of the Communist menace. 
The revolutionary organizations in Victoria have no printing machinery. Publication of the factory papers is effected by means of typewriters and duplicators. Most of this work is done at the party's Victorian headquarters in  Russell-street,  nearly all by voluntary workers, who include a number of women undergraduates from the university. 
In arranging lectures, in preparing magazines, and in all similar work, as well as in the more mechanical but nevertheless important work of typewriting, transcription, and translation, the assistance of university undergraduates has been considerable. 
Thus, according to an investigation made by one of the most capable representatives of that newspaper, most of the leaders and  inspirers  of Communists in  Victoria  are university graduates. I recall that the Minister for Defence Coordination  (Mr. Menzies)  is a graduate of the University of Melbourne. I wonder if he is one of those whose hot blood has suddenly turned cold. Has the Government taken any action to deal with communist activities at the Melbourne University? Does it intend to take such action? 
If the Government is satisfied that the  Argus  articles are correct it should, instead of implying, and suggesting by all manner of means that the Communists are the ordinary working men, and that they are causing all the trouble, pay some attention to communist activities at our universities. I commend to the Govern ment the articles I have just read. The fact that the Government would brand members of the Labour party as Communists, and entirely ignore graduates at universities, influences me to believe that it is simply using the communist bogy in order to destroy the Labour movement. It is not unusual for a government to provide secret - funds to counter alleged subversive activities. At the same time, it is nothing new for governments to employ  agents provocateurs  to provoke industrial disputes and strikes in order to discredit the trade union movement, and to provide pretexts for the introduction of coercive laws reducing wages and lowering general working conditions. 
Not at all. I am merely drawing on knowledge gained through my experience of the methods of anti-Labour Governments. That is why I view the phraseology of this document with great suspicion. I know that it is so much verbal camouflage; it is a 3moke-screen to hide the real intentions. There is nothing new in accusing trade union leaders of accepting bribes. That has been done repeatedly during my whole experience of the trade union movement. I would point out that Communists are persons created by conditions rather than persons who create those conditions. For example, as this publication from which I have quoted points out, the depression caused many young people, particularly university graduates, to become disillusioned because of the lack of practical results from the many promises made by the leaders of political thought during and after the last war. Instead of finding a democratic land fit for heroes to live in, they found a depression and poverty unprecedented in England. According to the royal commission which was set up in 1928 to inquire into the matter, the conditions in the " black " areas in England were just as bad as in the Asiatic countries. In the face of that disillusionment in England and here in Australia, these people whom we now see branded as Communists were created. 
Yes, but 1 regret to say that the ballot-box was not used as it should have been, otherwise honorable senators opposite would not be where they are now. It is part and parcel of the Government's policy now, as it was during the last elections and in fact during all elections, to mislead the people by holding up this bogy of communism. What is the cause of all this trouble that the Government would wish to avoid? Who are those persons whom the Government, would silence or suppress? Most of them are challenging the conditions under which they work, and they have a right to do so. Take the miners for example. They are asking for a substantial all round increase of wages ; the passage of a health and. safety bill through the New South Wales Legislative Assembly; the passage of a bill to prevent the introduction of mechanical equipment into pillar workings in New South Wales, the passage of a miners pensions bill ; and the preparation and initial presentation of the first comprehensive award on behalf of the Miners Federation. Those requests are being refused. Particularly in mines operated by owners who cannot be forced to introduce safety precautions the coal-miners work under conditions which are almost as dangerous as those existing at the front. They do not know from day to day if they will come out of the mines alive. They are asking for improved conditions, and because they are making those requests, the Commonwealth Government has subsidized an  agent provocateur  institution for the purpose of discrediting their leaders. That is all that is in it. The Government's policy is to discredit all representatives of industrial organizations and trade union movements which ask for improved conditions. When the Minister for Information-  (Senator Foll)  spoke of strikes he omitted to tell the Senate anything about the fundamental causes of strikes. He did not tell honorable senators that by arbitrary action, and without appealing to the courts or submitting evidence to the Prices Commissioner, prices have been increased. For example, the price of tea has increased by Is1d.  a  lb. since the outbreak of war. Anybody who has gone into the matter knows quite well that that increase as well as many others, is unwarranted. Similar increases have occurred in the price of amenities of all kinds. The workers know that profits are being made. An appeal is made to them to increase output in the interests of the nation. Then what do they see. Instead of building up the resistance of the nation to the enemy, all they have succeeded in building up are the bank balances of directors and shareholders of various companies in which members of the Government are conspicuously and profitably represented. Is it, any wonder that there is discontent ? 
I do. I could elaborate on this' matter for hours without repeating myself. In conclusion I emphasize that this document sets out to justify something that has been done surreptitiously. Its aim is to discredit and defeat the representatives of the trade union movement and organized labour who have dared to say that the Government's policy is based on fraud and force and should be resisted. I trust that my remarks will bear good fruit and that the Government in its meditative moments will think hard about what I have said. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In view of the nature of the business to be brought before the Senate, and the amendment foreshadowed in the House of Representa- tives, I suggest that the sitting be suspended until the ringing of the bells, which will be not earlier than 5.30 p.m. 

 Sitting suspended from3.2 to 
 5.30 
 p.m. 

I have received  from the Prime Minister a letter conveying, on behalf of General  Sir Thomas  Blarney, General Officer Commanding the Australian Imperial Force in the Middle East, and all ranks underhis command, sincere appreciation of the congratulatory message sent by the Commonwealth Parliament to the men of Tobruk.  Sir Thomas  Blarney embodied in his reply a special message of thanks from Major-General Morshead on behalf of the personnel at Tobruk. 
I have received from  Dr. Ernest  Culpin a letter of thanks for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of  Dr. Millice  Culpin. 

 . - by leave - I have to inform the Senate that, at the request of the Commonwealth Government, the Government of New South Wales has made available the services of  Sir Percival  Halse Rogers, a justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, to act as a royal commissioner to inquire into certain matters affecting public administration which were referred to in Parliament last week. 
The Commissioner will inquire into and report upon - 
The circumstances under which public moneys were used for or in connexion with the activities of the Australian Democratic Front, and to whom and for what purpose such moneys were paid. 
By whom, to whom, for what purposes and under what circumstances payments totalling £300 were made in the month of March, 1941, to one J. Winkler; and what became of such moneys. 
The circumstances attendant upon the making of trunk line telephone calls from the rooms of the Minister for Defence Coordination at Canberra on Friday, the 12th September, 1941, and Saturday, the 13th September, 1941, and in particular whether in the course of such conversations or any of them there was any disclosure of the Government's budget or financial proposals to any and what per-  son. 
What material the printers and/or publishers of the following newspapers, namely: - The  Advertiser,  Adelaide; the  Herald,  Melbourne; the  Telegraph,  Brisbane ; the  Sun News-Pictorial,  Melbourne; and the  CourierWait,  Brisbane; had before them when they published in their issues of the following dates respectively: - the 18th September, 1941; the 19th September, 1941; the 19th September, 1941; the 20th September, 1941; and the 20th September, 1941, paragraphs referring to such trunk line telephone calls, and from whom, by whom and under what circumstances such material was obtained. 
A preliminary hearing of the royal commissionwill take place at the Supreme Court, Sydney, at 10.30 a.m. on Friday, the 3rd October, at which persons who desire to be represented before the commission should attend. As announced by the Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes) Mr. W.  W. Monahan. K.C., and Mr.E. J. Hooke, of the Sydney Bar, have been briefed to assist the commission. It is anticipated that the taking of evidence by the commission will commence in Canberra on Wednesday, the8th October, at an hour to be fixed. 
I ask the Minister for Information  (Senator Foll)  whether he will give me the reasons why a ban has been placed upon the public screening of the British film "Love on the Dole"? I notice from a. report in the  Sunday Telegraph  that the showing of this picture has been prohibited by the Chief Commonwealth Film Censor,  Mr. Cresswell  O'Reilly. I am informed that the film, which deals with the period of the last war, is most interesting. The following extracts from various newspapers support that opinion :  - 

 The Observer. - " ' Love on the Dole ' is a fine, wise picture . . . less of a show than a rich human experience." 

 Sunday Dispatch. - "The film is one of the most moving and most significant ever made in Britain." 

 Sunday Pictorial. - " If every man and woman in Britain could see this film, I don't think we would ever go back to those dreadful pre-war years when two million men and women were allowed to rot in idleness . . . the film is flawless and it will win world fame." 
I could cite similar opinions from other newspapers. I was born in the Old Country, and spent my early years there. From England I went to the United 
States of America. I landed in Australia in 1912. During my life in Great Britain I came into close contact with the people there. I have slept in work-houses and have mixed with the bottom dogs, so I have an intimate knowledge of the fearful conditions of life of many people who lived in England years ago. I slept in workhouses not because 1 was compelled to - I could always get a good bed in my own home - but because, like Jack London and others, I was anxious to meet the people who constituted the submerged tenth of Great Britain. I knew the deplorable conditions under which millions of men and women existed. They travelled from town to town and from workhouse to workhouse. If they applied twice for accommodationat the same workhouse there was a possibility that they would be charged with vagrancy and have to go to gaol. I lived amongst the people and had intimate experience of the fearful conditions that operated in those days. Even prior to this war millions of men and women were on the dole. Certainly their conditions were a little better than those operating at the time of which I speak. At least they had the dole, whereas in the earlier days people had to beg for sufficient to maintain life; they had to go from door to door and from town to town, asking their fellow men for a few pence to buy sufficient food to keep life in their bodies. Subsequently a more humane government was able to bring in measures which made it possible  to  pay these people enough to buy the bare necessities of life. I cannot understand why the Chief Commonwealth Film Censor,  Mr. Cresswell  O'Reilly, should have banned this film, which deals so strikingly with the conditions of the poor. 1 should like the Minister for Information to tell the people of Australia why the film was banned. If it can be' shown in England, where the people are in the very heart of the struggle which is now being waged against totalitarianism and know what is going on, why cannot it be screened in Australia ? 
I understand that such an appeal is being made, but surely an appeal can also be made to the Minister, who, I feel sure, will say, " Certainly, this film shall be shown ". I am strongly of the opinion that the conditions under which people live in the Old Country should be shown to the Australian public. Our boys are going overseas to fight for democracy, and for a promised " new order ", and we should understand something of the faults of the old order so that we may help to ensure that even in England men and women are given a fair deal and an opportunity to earn a decent livelihood. This film would be splendid propaganda, and I cannot understand why the censor banned it. 1 hope that the Minister will look into the matter and see that the people of Australia have an opportunity to witness this epic film. 
I should like some information from the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay)  in regard to a question which I asked in this chamber last week. I asked the Minister if he had received a report from the Commonwealth representatives in the United States of America in regard to charges which were alleged to have been made against the great aluminium combine known as Alcoa. The Minister replied in the affirmative. I am interested to know whether the allegations were correct because only one-third of the capital of the Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited is held in Australia, and only one-third of the directors are Australians, the other two-thirds in each case being controlled by overseas interests which indirectly are representatives of Alcoa. I should like to know if there is any truth in the props report that representatives of Alcoa were arrested and ' charged by the Government of the United States of America with having engaged in subversive activities, inasmuch as they had held up supplies of aluminium needed for the British war effort. If so, what were the findings? That is a matter of great importance to Australia in view of the interest which Alcoa holds in the Australian Aluminium Company Proprieta ry Limited. 
I should like to know also if replies are available to questions appearing on to-day's notice-paper, and, if not, will replies be forwarded to honorable senators at the earliest possible date. 
I have a number of answers to questions appearing on to-day's notice-paper, and, with the approval of the Senate, I shall have them incorporated in  Hansard.  The answers to other questions will be forwarded to honorable senators at the earliest possible date. 
With regard to the remarks of  Senator Brown,  I should like to point out that the censorship of, films does not come under the jurisdiction of my department, but is controlled by the Department of Trade and Customs. Films come under the purview of the censorship branch of the Department of Information only when questions of national security arise. T understand that the film "Love on the Dole " has been rejected by the Commonwealth Censor, as has been pointed out by  Senator Brown,  but there is an opportunity for an. appeal to be made, and I have no doubt that those who desire to exhibit the film will make an appeal. 
In that case the matter would not come within the jurisdiction of the Department of Information. It would be entirely a matter for the Department of Trade and Customs. 
Some days ago,  Senator Sampson  stated that a member of the Australian Imperial Force in the Western Desert had asked him to correct publicly a statement made by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  that no margarine was being used or had been used by the Army, and that margarine did not appear on the contract list of the Australian Force or lists of supplies from British  depot3  to Australian troops serving abroad. This statement appeared in the press on the 30th May last, and on the 6th June, it was amplified by the Minister for the Army who said: "Arrangements made by the Commonwealth Government with the British authorities for food supplies to the Australian Imperial Force do not include any issue of margarine. The actual position is that the Commonwealth Government, through the Military Board, has an arrangement with the British authorities for the daily supply of rations to the Australian Forces abroad. The daily scale of rations is adhered to whenever humanly possible, but the exigencies of modern warfare and the rapid movement associated with it, carried on over extended lines of communication and, in the case of the Middle East, in extreme heat, would frequently place the British supply depots in a most difficult position in respect of the supply of butter to our forces. Only in those cases when it is impossible to obtain butter would our troops be issued with margarine, but it must be understood that this is an emergency measure ". On behalf of the Minister for the Army, I now inform the Senate that the position is that supplies of butter are despatched to the Middle East on every transport which leaves Australia for that destination. These supplies are landed on arrival and handed over to British depots for distribution to Australian troops as required and when practicable. The honorable senator will readily understand that butter can be distributed to the troops only when conditions permit its transportation. Except when troops are located adjacent to suitable storage facilities, butter cannot be supplied to them in the hot weather, as it rapidly becomes unfit for human consumption, and transport difficulties frequently prevent its distribution to troops in the period which would unavoidably elapse between removal from storage and delivery in. the field. Margarine does not become unfit for human consumption under the same conditions, and the practice has been adopted of issuing vitamized margarine where, for reasons already stated, butter cannot be made available. However, butter is issued to the troops whenever it is possible to do so. 
I am sure the honorable senator will appreciate that climatic conditions and the exigencies of the service must frequently prevent the distribution of butter to troops in the field, which, in hot weather, must be determined by the distance of the troops from suitable storage and the  transportation facilities available. Adverse climatic conditions and transportation difficulties must frequently render delivery of butter to the troops impossible under active service conditions. At present the Department of the Army is, with the assistance of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, conducting experiments with concentrated dehydrated butter, and a quantity of this product has been issued to troops in various places to test their reactions to this type of butter. This product retains all the food value of fresh butter and without refrigeration can be stored for long periods without losing its palatability. Should this test prove satisfactory, it is anticipated that our present difficulties will he, to a great extent, overcome and that the necessity to use margarine, on occasions, as a substitute will in future be obviated. 
On the 25th September,  Senator Sampson  asked the following question,  upon notice :  - 
Is it a fact that during the war of 1914-18 the Battalion Commander, two Majors, the Adjutant and seven Subalterns of the 18th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force, were cashiered for cowardice? 
Is the Minister aware that a statement to the above effect was made in the Senate on 20th June, 1941, toy  Senator S.  K. Amour? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer:- 
No officer of the 18th Battalion was cashiered for cowardice, nor was any officer of that battalion charged with that offence. 
On the 17th September,  Senator Fraser  referred to the matter of young men called up for service under the Defence Act being compelled to travel long distances in order to undergo preliminary medical examination, without being recompensed for the possible loss of wages involved, and asked if it were proposed to compensate these young men for time lost in this way. 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following reply: - 
It has been the practice to send the Area Staff to centres, in order to enable those in distant places to have a minimum of time involved in reporting, and, wherever possible, not more than a ten miles' journey for each person.Rail or transport warrants are provided, but no provision exists for the pay- ment of compensation for loss of wages or time. 
Instructions are being issued to commands, that every effort is to be made at all times to bring examination centres as near as possible to the persons to be called up for service, so that it will not be necessary for these young men to travel any greater distance than can possibly be avoided. 
I undertake to bring to the notice of my colleague, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Senator McLeay),  the remarks of  Senator Aylett  concerning aluminium. 
In the Parliament of New South Wales last week,  Mr. Carlton,  in the course of a speech in which he made a charge against  Mr. W.  J. Smith, Director of Gun Ammunition in the Ministry of Munitions, said that a statement had been secured by a  Mr. Ralfe  from the Department of Information, and had subsequently been made available to  Mr. Smith.  I wish to make it perfectly clear that  Mr. Carlton  is in error, and that his attention has been drawn to the fact. He appears to have confused the Department of Information with the Department of Investigation which is attached to either the Army Department or the Department of the Attorney-General, because no statement of any kind was secured by any one from any officer of the Department of Information, nor has that department attached to it an investigation section. I make this clear injustice to the officers of the department. 
I regret that the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Leckie)  is not present. Over a period of many months, both inside and outside this chamber, I have repeatedly asked for definite information to be furnished to me concerning the production of fighter aeroplanes in Australia, and the answer has always been that plans were in course of being completed, and that within a very few days the honorable gentleman would be able to announce details of production in Australia. I asked a question on the subject in this chamber only a fortnight ago. The Minister for Aircraft Production then informed the Senate that within a very few days he would make details available to the country. This matter is becoming more and more important as time passes. The most vital factor influencing the minds of soldiers returning from service abroad, arising from their actual experiences on the battlefront, is the need for more and more fighter aeroplanes. This country cannot be placed soon enough in full production of these most important adjuncts to our defence and a successful offensive. I should therefore like the Minister to make a definite statement at once. If the plans are not approaching completion, he should at least tell the country that the stage is not near when the production of fighter aeroplanes will be commenced. Why should he continue to hoodwink the people, by saying that within a very few days he will make details available, when it is apparent that such is not the case? I personally have been humbugged for nearly twelve months, particularly since the honorable senator in question became a Minister. A statement should be made as to whether the Government is or is not ready to commence the production of these machines. 
I thank the Minister  (Senator Foll)  for his statement in regard to compulsory military trainees, but I am still not convinced that the proper thing has been done by these lads. The setting up of medical boards, so that men will not have to travel more than 10 miles does not overcome the difficulty. I particularly instance the gold-fields, and the centres of rural industries, where men have to travel a far greater distance than 10 miles in order to reach the nearest office at which a medical examination may be conducted.These men are losing money thereby; they are not in receipt of wages during the period of their absence in order to undergo a preliminary examination. In the light of these facts, I ask the Minister again to bring the matter to the notice of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender).  In Western Australia particularly, men are affected in the timber country, the mining areas, and on the different farms. The Government should grant compensation in respect of loss of wages. The men do not enter camp immediately upon passing the medical examination, but have to return to their work until they are called up. 
That aspect of the matter should be stressed strongly with the Minister for the Army. I can see no reason for these men being obliged to lose their wages while engaged in the performance of a national duty. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Are flax employees in Tasmania, when receiving compensation under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act, entitled to medical and nursing expenses when they have been injured in the course of their duty? 
Does section 11 of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act of 1930 cover such a case? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Section 11 of the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act provides that, in addition to any compensation payable under the act, the Commonwealth shall pay the cost, not exceeding in any case the sum of £100, of such medical, surgical and hospital treatment in relation to the injury as is, in the opinion of the commissioner (or his delegate), reasonably necessary. The flax employees referred to are therefore entitled to that benefit. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that trainees for the Militia are being called up for medical examination twice within two months despite the fact that on the first occasion they may have received first-class passes? 
If so, why is no consideration given to the inconvenience and expense caused to the trainees, and also the added cost to the Department of the Army? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
Men who are liable to be called up for military service are medically examined at the area in which they enlist. If classified there as Class 1 they are allotted to units. On arrival in camp they are required to go before' a medical board for confirmation of Area Medical Officer's classification. Men who are considered by Area Medical Officer to be temporarily medically unfit, but whom it is considered would be fit Class 1 within a definite period would be called upon at the end of that period to undergo further medical examination. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a home, costing approximately £7,000, was built for General Blarney and Lady Blamey somewhere in Egypt? 
If so, who provided the money? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
See answer to 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What amount of money, if any, is being paid by the Army Department as rent to the Bendigo Agricultural Society for the use of its showgrounds as a military camp. 
The Minister for the Army state' that compensation for use of the Bendigo Showgrounds for the year ending the 30th June, 1942, is £589, payable quarterly. 
asked the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
With reference to the early departure of SirEarle Page for London, and having regard to the substantial increase in the costs of wool production in Australia - what action, if any, has the Government taken with the British Government to have a review of wool prices for the purpose of enabling continued production in Australia of wool without loss to the growers. 
The Acting Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer: - 
The arrangement made with the United Kingdom provides that either Government may initiate in May of any year a review of the agreement, particularly in relation to the price. In view of the great advantage conferred on Australian wool-growers by the guarantee of purchase of their totalwool clip for the term of the war and one year thereafter, and the heavy financial responsibility which will rest on the United Kingdom Government in respect of unsold stocks, the Commonwealth Government has not heretofore sought a review of the price. The right remains, however, to initiate a review in May of any future year. It is, of course, possible that, at any review, the United Kingdom Government might seek a reduction in price. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Air;  upon notice - 
Would the Minister inform the Senate what progress has been made with the education scheme organized by Flight Lieutenant McLean in the Royal Australian Air Force, the curriculum decided upon, and the tutors engaged upon this work. 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following answer :  - 
A rehabilitation scheme for members of the Royal Australian Air Force has been approved in principle. The implementationof the scheme, including the precise details of the curriculum and the tutors to be engaged upon the work is now awaiting the selection and appointment of a suitable person to take charge of the scheme. 
The importance and nature of the scheme is such that the selection of a man to take charge of it is of the utmost importance, and it is expected that a suitable appointee will be obtained in the near future. In the meantime, certain preliminary work has been and  is  being done by Flight Lieutenant McLean who is a junior officer on the Education Staff of the Royal Australian Air Force. When the appointment of the officer to take charge of the scheme has been made, the preliminary work which has already been done will be  Rifted  and co-ordinated and the scheme put into operation without delay. 
asked the Minister for Munitions, upon notice - 
Is the necessary machinery available for the munitions annexe at the Launceston Railway Work Shops? 
If so, when will installation, commence? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
and 2. Approximately 70 per cent, of machine tools have been received and installed. The balance (30 per cent.) is scheduled for delivery by the end of September and will be installed as each item  is  received at the annexe.  voluntaryaid Detachments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What are the salaries and allowances paid to members of the nursing staff of the Australian Imperial Force, and to Voluntary Aid Detachments ?. 
The Minister for the. Army has supplied the following answer :  - 
R. - A prosecution was commenced by the State police of Tasmania against the man Paddon mentioned by the honorable member, and after an adjournment the proceedings were ultimately adjourned  sine die.  On whose instructions that was done I do not know, but the result was, I understand, the discontinuance of the action. I shall institute inquiries in order to ascertain on whose instructions the prosecution was discontinued. 
It is with great regret that I announce to the Senate the death in Brisbane on the 1st October of ex-Senator the Honorable John Mullan. The deceased was elected to the Queensland Legislative Assembly for Charters Towers in February, 1908, and again in October, 1909. He was elected to the Senate as a representative of Queensland at the general elections in 1913 and again in 1914, and sat as a senator till 1917. In 1913, while a senator, he was a member of the select committee on the Fitzroy Dock, and in 1914 he was a member of the select committee on the Teasdale Smith contract. In 1918, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly for Queensland for Flinders. He was a Minister without portfolio in the Queensland State Government from October, 1919, to November, 1920, and was Attorney-General for periods extending over eighteen years, from November, 1920, to May, 1929, and from 1932 to November of last year. He was a life-long personal friend of mine, and I am familiar with his career, both in the Queensland Parliament and in the Commonwealth legislature. He was a remarkable man with regard to the length and the quality of the service he rendered to Australia, and I regret his death not only because I have lost a personal friend, but also because Australia has lost a legislator who served it well. On behalf of the Senate, I extend to the widow and family of the late  Mr. Mullan  our sincere sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honorable John Mullan, former senator and State Minister, places on record its appreciation of his meritorious public service, and extends its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
On behalf of the Opposition I join in the expression of regret at the death of the late  Mr. Mullan,  and extend sincere sympathy to the widow and family in their bereavement. 
The members of the Country party in the Senate desire to be associated with the motion, and offer their deep sympathy to the widow and relatives of the late  Mr. Mullan. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
. -by  leave -  I formally announce to the Senate that on the 3rd October the Honorable A. W. 
Fadden submitted the resignation of his Government to  His Excellency  the Governor-General. Subsequently  His Excellency  commissioned  Mr. Curtin  to form a Ministry. The Ministry, which was sworn in by  His Excellency  on the 7th October, is constituted as follows :  - 
Prime Minister and Minister for Defence Co-ordination - The Honorable J. Curtin. 
Minister for the Army - The Honorable F. M. Forde. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to the fact that at Lithgow 4,500 men are on strike, that 1,400 brick-makers are idle, and that 60 engineers and ironworkers who were repairing overseas vessels have ceased work, as have also the men employed in three collieries in New South Wales? Is he also aware that urgent requests for coal have been received from South Australia and Victoria? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Government will do all in its power to get these men back to work as quickly as possible, and also that arbitration awards will be observed? 
The question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is most ill advised at this moment. Surely he does not imagine that the Prime Minister, or other Ministers who may be called upon to deal with these matters, are ignorant of what is going on? If the honorable senator wishes to fan the flames of industrial unrest he is adopting the correct attitude. I can assure him that the Government is seriously concerned with what is taking place, and will do all in its power to end the difficulties, which have not in every case been caused by the men. 
As I understand that the Senate is to rise to-day, I desire to know from the Leader of the Senate whether it is the intention of the Government to prorogue Parliament, or to adjourn it. 
At the appropriate timeI shall make an anouncement on the subject. 
I desire to direct a question to you,  Mr. President,  and with the indulgence of the Senate, to refer to the telegrams sent to honorable senators convening to-day's meeting of the Senate. I direct special attention to the words "for the purpose of granting Supply only " which appeared in the telegram. I do not think that that was a proper notice to send out to honorable senators. How can you,  Mr. President,  know what business will be dealt with, as, in view of the present constitution of the Senate, other business could be brought forward? I realize that the intimation was made in all kindness, but telegrams so worded are liable to be misunderstood. It could easily be assumed that the intention was to notify honorable senators that only formal business would be dealt with. I suggest that, in future, notices to honorable senators should not be couched in such terms. 
The honorable senator will recall that the notice convening the Senate was despatched when certain events had occurred in Canberra and the position as to the business to be dealt with when the Senate met was not clear, although it was definitely known that a request for Supply would be presented. 
Will the Minister for Aircraft Production institute inquiries as to the suitability of Tasinanian King William pine for aircraft production? 
I shall be pleased to institute inquiries. 
Can the Minister for the Interior supply any information as to the strike at the Darwin wharf in consequence of which certain Army equipment has not been unloaded ? In asking this question, I assure the Minister that I am not attempting to fan the flames of industrial unrest. 
Developments in connexion with the matter referred to by the honorable senator are being carefully watched. At the moment, the Department of the Interior is not directly affected; the Minister for the Army is dealing with the position at Darwin. Should the Department of the Interior become involved, I shall be in a position to say what is being done. 
In view of the strenuous opposition of the Minister for Commerce to any restriction of wheatgrowing, can the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce say whether it is intended to abolish the existing system by which production is being restricted ? 
It is not usual to announce Government policy in reply to questions. 
When will the report of the committee on the apple and pear acquisition scheme be made available to the Senate? 
The report has been completed, and I understand that it will be presented to the Government within the next week or two. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister favorably consider any applications from members of the Royal Australian Air Force for transfer to the Australian Imperial Force, provided such members are not specialists or are not being trained as specialists? 
The Minister for Air has supplied the following a nswer :  - 
Airmen of the more highly skilled trades cannot be released. Airmen in the lowest trade group, viz., group V., may be released. Applications for release from the Royal Australian Air Force for the purpose of joining the Australian Imperial Force will be considered on their merits, provided they are made through the correct service channels, subject to the following conditions: - 
That applicants can be spared from their musterings; 
that a replacement by an older man or a woman (Women's Australian Auxiliary Air Force) in certain cases is available; 
it must be clear that the Army will enlist the men concerned immediately upon their release from the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Any men who can be released from their ground mustering will first be given an opportunity to offer themselves for air crew before consideration will be given to their release for other military duty. 

 Sitting suspended from 3.27 to4.10 p.m. 

.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Supply Acts Nos. 1 and 2 appropriated revenue for services of the Commonwealth up to the 31st October, 1941. The Government proposes that Parliament shall adjourn for three weeks, and on resumption the financial proposals of the Government will be submitted. In the circumstances, a Supply Bill is now introduced to cover requirements for a further two months, November and December. 
The total amount proposed to be appropriated by this bill is £16,221,000 under the following main heads : - 

<graphic href="168332194110080_4_0.jpg"></graphic>

With the exception of the Defence provision, the amounts included in the bill are based on rates of expenditure approved in the appropriation for 1940-41. In a number of isolated cases where the expenditure is heavier in the early part of the year the proportion of half of last year's appropriation has been exceeded. This is done only in the cases of services which have already been approved in previous years. 
The amounts in the bill sought to he appropriated -for defence and war services together with those voted in previous Supply acts, represent the sum which, it is estimated, will be available from revenue receipts for the first half of the year, after making allowance for other commitments. In addition to the Defence expenditure from revenue, there will also be expenditure from loan which will be covered by loan appropriations made and to be made. 
The form of the proposed defence votes has been altered in accordance with the change proposed in the published Estimates. All the Defence votes have been consolidated in one group instead of appearing in detail as divided between revenue and loan funds. The amount of £93,487,000 for Defence services shown on page 2 of the bill represents the estimated gross defence expenditure for the six months ended the 3lst December, 1941, less the amounts, approximately £13,000,000, already voted from revenue by Supply Acts Nos. 1 and 2. The figure of £82,604,000 represents the proportion of the gross Defence expenditure which will be charged to loan fund. 
Provision is made under the head " Advance to the Treasurer " for a further £1,000,000, being the total for the six months of £6,000,000. This amount is necessary to meet services which will be covered in the main by other appropriations not yet made. In particular, the heaviest temporary charges to Treasurer's advance are in respect of Commonwealth works and payments to the States, all of which will later be covered by the usual appropriation acts. Except in the case of defence and war services, no provision is made in the bill for any new expenditure. 
The Opposition supports the bill, and wishes it a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
.- I move - 
That the hill .be  now  rend a second time. 
Following the practice observed since the commencement of the war it is necessary to obtain a further appropriation for war expenditure. The purpose of this bill is to obtain an appropriation of £50,000,000 for war expenditure and for the raising of a corresponding amount of loan moneys to finance that expenditure. At the 30th June, 1941, there was a balance of approximately £72,000,000 of loan appropriation. This will suffice to cover the expenditure of this month and part of November. It is essential that a safe margin of parliamentary approval should be available, and the present bill is designed to cover expenditure after that date for a further period within the present financial year. 
It is estimated that the total war expenditure in 1941-42 from loan will be about £150,000,000. At present, expenditure is averaging about £18,000,000 a month on defence and war services from revenue and loan sources. Of this it is possible to charge an average of about £4,000,000 monthly to revenue. Later in the financial year, when taxation collections are being received in much greater volume, it will be possible to charge a greater proportion of war expenditure to Consolidated Revenue. A schedule showing details of gross war expenditure will be found in pages 40 to 58 of the Estimates as presented by the previous Government. 
The War Loan Appropriation Acts already passed by Parliament since the outbreak of war are - 

<graphic href="168332194110080_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

I commend the bill to the Senate. 
. -Clause 3 of the bill reads - 
The Treasurer may, from time to time, borrow, under the provisions of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-1940, or under the provisions of any act authorizing the issue of treasury-bills, moneys not exceeding in the whole the amount of £50,000,000. 
I am glad that we now have a Government which will do away with the selling of inscribed stock ; it is quite unnecessary. 
If we sell inscribed stock we must pay interest; but this Government has a scheme whereby we can obtain the money we require without paying interest. Three years ago, when I urged that the Commonwealth Bank should issue interest-free money, I was told that I was a voice crying in the wilderness. We now hope to see that done. Last night I listened to the broadcast of the big meeting held in the Sydney Town Hall, to launch the £100,000,000 loan. The announcer incorrectly stated that the loan was a conversion loan of £100,000,000. The fact is that whilst £70,000,000 will be converted, £30,000,000 of new money is required. The  Sydney Morning Herald  tells us in its columns this morning how that money is to be raised, that is, how much has been promised already, and that the banks have kindly consented to convert all of their holdings, and are also prepared to supply any new money required. We know how the banks acquire new money. The previous Government allowed the private banks to provide almost the whole of the first war loan of £20,000,000. We were told that that loan would be raised through the agency of the Commonwealth Bank and the private banks, but when I asked the ex-Treasurer how much was put through the private banks I was refused that information. However,  Mr. Gillespie  has " spilled the beans ". When he was speaking to the shareholders of the organization he represents and " cracking up " the patriotism of his bank he said that the first war loan of £20,000,'000 was supplied by the private banks. Apparently, nothing went through the Commonwealth Bank at all. This Government is going to put the business through the Commonwealth Bank. Unless one knows how it is done it seems extraordinary that the Australian Mutual Provident Society, for instance, after putting over £3,500,000 into the first loan subscribed £2,500,000, and is also offering to convert all of its stock* I do not believe that any honorable senator thinks for one moment that the Australian Mutual Provident Society, big as  it is, has £6,000,000 to put into war loans in any one year However, I explained this trick on a previous occasion. All that the general manager of the Australian Mutual Provident Society needs to do is to instruct the society's banker to apply for £2,500,000 in the loan. The manager of the bank applies for that holding, and sends a cheque for that amount to the Treasurer. On that subscription the bank draws a commission of nearly £4,000. I have explained before that all applications for war loans carry a commission of 5s. per cent. The bank then holds those bonds as security for the overdraft advanced to the Australian Mutual Provident Society. It can hold as many bonds as it likes, and if it holds them long enough, it can easily transfer them. I am amazed at the small sums which some banks are converting, particularly when we have been told that they have done so much for the country. All government stock and debentures are above par. So it is easy to raise £5,000,000 in government bonds. The banks send a cheque to the Treasury, and then put the bonds on the market when they can reap the enhanced value. That explains to some degree why the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney holds only £1,642,000 for conversion. This year the Australian Mutual Provident Society has subscribed £6,075,405 to government loans. All life assurance offices must satisfy the Government that they have the money. They have not only big revenue but also very high expenses in meeting policies as they mature. I am quite sure that this Government will not give the private banks a chance to create this £30,000,000 out of nothing, and loan it to the nation at 3½ per cent. interest. That is what has been done in the past. 
No ; I am just telling the honorable senator what is going to happen. Of course, the bankcontrolled press can only say what it is allowed to say by the banks, and, apparently, that presshas not yet been allowed to say what I am now saying. It is extraordinary that the private banks subscribed huge sums to the £20,000,000 loan, and yet, when I asked how much of that loan went through the Commonwealth Bank and how much through the private banks, I was told that such particulars could not be disclosed without the permission of the private banks. However, as we know now that the Commonwealth Bank has only £6,186,000 to convert, it did not put through very much. Most of that money, obviously, is held by the private banks. 
SenatorFoll. - Would it not be better to give this information to the Government in caucus? 
I wish to show that, at last, heed is being paid towhat I have been saying in this chamber for three years. We shall use the credit of the nation. Even in this time of crisis, banks in England are paying dividends of from 14 to 16 per cent. The  chairman  of directors of one bank in announcing the dividend  to  the shareholders said that so high a dividend was possible because the bank was lending hundreds of millions of pounds to the Government. When  Sir John  Simon was asked if he was prepared to alter the charter of the Bank of England, and to say who owned it, and in whose interest it was conducted, he replied " No ".  Sir Kingsley  Wood gave a similar reply to the same question. National credit is not being used in England as we shall use it in Australia. The Bank of England rules Great Britain, as, so far, the banks in Australia have ruled this country. The present Government will, however, alter that state of affiairs. In 1939.  Mr. Montagu  Norman, of the Bank of England, in referring to a loan of £50,000,000 to the German Government, said - 
We will have to lend the money to Germany. Although we may never sec it again, it is worth £50,000,000 to sustain Nazi-ism. 
The cost of converting loans is tremendous. Less than two years ago, Tasmania wished to convert a loan of £4,500,000. The Treasurer of that State desired that the conversion be arranged through the Commonwealth Bank, in London, but the Loan Council would not allow that course to be followed; instead, it insisted on the transactions being handled through Nivison and Company, the brokers for  the Australian Government. That procedure cost Tasmania £137,000; and as the loan was of only two years' duration, it is probable that a similar amount will have to be paid next January for  a  further conversion. The cost of conversion works out at about 12s. a head of the population of Tasmania. 
 I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill before the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I rise to refer to a matter which I bring forward with regret. Parliaments have been termed " coward's castles " because in them men may make statements under privilege which they would not dare to make outside the Parliament. On the 26th June, in a rather long and rambling statement on a supply bill,  Senator Amour  said - 
I had experience in the last war in the 18th Battalion, in which there were some old and some young officers, and it was not very happy. The colonel, our battalion major and another major, the adjutant and seven of our lieutenants were cashiered for cowardice. Such a situation is not desirable. 
I came across that report of the honorable senator's remarks before I took my place in the Senate in July last,  and 
I determined to sift the charge to the bottom. I communicated with an association consisting of members of the 18th Battalion in order to ascertain whether there was any truth in the statement which the honorable senator had made in this chamber. I also put on the notice-paper a question dealing with the matter. As a member of the first Australian Imperial Force, I am jealous of its good name and reputation. I frankly admit that a lot of us were not as brave as were others. Indeed, there were many occasions when, if my legs would have carried me, I would have run away had there been somewhere to run to. It ill becomes any former member of the Australian Imperial Force to make such a statement as that made by  Senator Amour.  Although I asked my question on the 25th September, I did not receive a reply until last week. The question was as follows: - 
Is it a fact that during the war of 1914-18 the battalion commander, two majors, the adjutant and seven subalterns of the 18th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force, were cashiered for cowardice? 
Is the Minister aware that a statement to the above effect was made in the Senate on 26th June, 1941, by  Senator S.  K. Amour? 
The ex-Minister for the Army supplied the following answer :  - 
No officer of the 18th Battalion was cashiered for cowardice, nor was any officer of that battalion charged with that offence. 
Of course I do. The facts are on record, and there is no record of any inquiry or court-martial. Yet, we have here an honorable senator saying that a colonel, two majors, an adjutant and seven subalterns were cashiered for cowardice. 
Yes, it is absolutely slanderous.  Senator Amour  mentioned no names in his charge. He has besmirched the whole of the Australian Imperial Force, and I appeal to him to retract a statement which could be made only by some one with an evil mind and who is a malicious liar. 
I ask  Senator Sampson  to withdraw the words to which exception has been taken. 
I have been attacked by  Senator Sampson  for something that I said apparently on the 26th June last.  Senator Sampson  rebuked me for not having mentioned names. I will now name those whom I charged.  Colonel Chapman  and  Major MacDonald  were sent back from Gallipoli after thelanding of the 18th Battalion on the 22nd August, 1915. Captain Hinton, the adjutant of the battalion, was sent away from the battalion after we had gone on to the desert of Egypt. I  was  present when Lieutenant Pritchard was stripped of his epaulets and cashiered by  Major Goodsell  because he was too cowardly to go out reconnoitring. I was one of the members of the reconnoitring party.  Senator Sampson  says that he has the records, but I was a witness. The men had to get an officer from another battalion, bring  Major Goodsell  out of the dug-out, and he was then cashiered for cowardice. 
I am telling the Senate now. After I returned from the war, I was assured by former members of the 18th Battalion that other officers were also cashiered. 
If the records of the Department of the Army show that  Colonel Chapman  and  Major MacDonald  were not cashiered for cowardice, they may show that they were charged with, say, murder, which may have been a more appropriate charge. Probably, I was kind to them. How any honorable senator who was not a member of the battalion, had no knowledge of it and none of whose friends died as the result of the action of officers of that battalion, could say that I have lied, passes my comprehension. More men passed through the l8th Battalionthan through any other battalion which left Australia and only one of them was ever charged with any offence involving dereliction of duty. That man was sentenced to two years' imprisonment. It was one of the greatest miscarriages of justice of which I have ever known.  His  dereliction of duty consisted of his failing, when on outpost duty, to hear an officer, who had crept upon him, say, " Are you on your post?" Failure to hear was his defence, but he was sentenced in spite of it. Only one man of the 3,000 men in the 18th Battalion is shown by the records to have been charged with a breach of duty. Their officers, however, let them down badly. I assure  Senator Sampson  that I shall ask the present Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  to check the accuracy of my statements and, if necessary, to have a complete investigation made of the reasons why those officers were cashiered from the 18th Battalion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state what action, if any, the Government has taken regarding the appraisement of wool at Albany this season? 
SenatorFRASER. -  by leave- The  Government has given consideration to the matter of conducting wool appraisements at Albany in connexion with the scheme of war-time acquirement of the Australian wool clip by the United Kingdom Government. 
This matter was considered on several occasions prior to the advent to office of the present Ministry, and, in dealing with it, the Government had before it the decision of the previous Government, given on the 1st October, when it was decided that, in the interests of decentralization, appraisements should be carried out at Albany under the following conditions: - 
that 14,000 bales should be appraised at Albany this season ; 
that brokers be recouped the reasonable cost of putting the stores at Albany in order, to deal with such quantity of wool; 
that growers of wool outside the zone determined for the Albany district, who had to pay a heavier freight on wool toFremantle, and also those growers within the zone where the normal freight to Albany was less than to Fremantle, but who, owing to limitation of offerings, could not send their wool to Albany, should be charged freight at the same rate as to Albany; 
that, should overseas shipping not be provided at Albany, the Commonwealth Government would accept the responsibility for the paymentof freight on wool from Albany to Fremantle during the period of the appraisement scheme. 
The Government has decided to abide by that decision. The Central Wool Committee hasbeen advised of the Government's decision, and the Western Australian wool-sellingbrokers have also been notified, so that early steps could be taken to receive within the defined zone at Albany the present season's clip. It is understood that one wool-selling firm, viz., Westralian Farmers Limited, has applied to the Central Wool Committee for a licence in terms of National Security (Wool) Regulation No. 25. and will shortly be authorized to receive wool into its stores at Albany for appraisement. 
The Government hopes that other woolselling brokers operating in Western Australia will take immediate steps to obtain a licence in order to receive wool from their clients in the zone arranged. Any delay in receiving wool at Albany for appraisement from clients of these firms can be attributable only to their own tardiness in not taking steps to secure the necessary authority from the Central Wool Committee. 
With regard to the renovations to stores and dumping equipment, &amp;c, at Albany, the Government considers that it should be possible for the four woolselling brokers concerned to make some mutual arrangement for dealing with the 14,000 bales through interchange of the accommodation and equipment. By adopting such a procedure expense would be saved, repair work reduced, and an early start made with the handling of this season's clip. 
Will the Leader of the Senate state whether Ratliff and Thomas, who were interned for subversive activities, were released on the advice of the Government's military advisers? If they were not, will the Leader of the Senate give to honorable senators an opportunity to review the papers disclosing the reasons why those men were interned? 
I think that the Leader of the Opposition knows the answers to his questions. I do not propose to supply them, even if he does not. If he is at all dissatisfied with the position, and will place on the notice-paper a question that can be properly dealt with, I shall see that he gets a proper reply. 
Is the Minister for Aircraft Production the  Senator Cameron  who took part in a " Heckle Hour " debate at the 3DB broadcasting station on Saturday night? If so, will he state whether the views he expressed there, that so-called monopolies should be taken over without compensation, are the views of the Government on that matter? 
I stand by the opinions that I expressed on Saturday night at that gathering, but they are not necessarily the views which the honorable gentleman believes me to hold. 
Is the Minis ter representing the Minister for Commerce in a position to say what action the Government has taken in regard to the 1941-42 and subsequent apple and pear crops? 
I regret that, owing to circumstances over which the Government has no control, the report of the Committee on Apples and Pears has not yet been made available. As the Government desires that its policy in respect of the fruit-growing industry shall be placed before Parliament at an early date, I shall endeavour to have the report made available next week so that Parliament may he acquainted with its contents. 
I have received from  Mrs. J.  Mullan and family a letter of thanks and appreciation for the resolution of sympathy and condolence passed by the Senate on the occasion of the death of formerSenator the Honorable James Mullan. 
On the 21st August  Senator Armstrong  asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister the following question,  upon notice :  - 
Will the Minister supply the names of the gentlemen whose services are being used by the Government but whose remuneration is not entirely paid by the Government? 
I now furnish the following reply :  - 
M. Badger, Executive Assistant to Chief Accountant- Finance Branch - Department of Munitions. (£250 allowance to cover cost of travel between Geelong and Melbourne. ) 
Bolle, Assistant to Director of Finance. (£6 a week allowance - ex-public servant recalled. ) 
Booth, Assistant Area Controller Machine Tools and Gauges Section (New South Wales ) . 
J. F. Boyer, Controller, American Division, Department of Information, Sydney. 
Hugh G. Brain, Business Member of the Naval Board. 

 Major R. A. Briggs, Liaison Officer between all Services and Ordnance Production Directorate. 

 Sir Harry Brown, Director of War Organization of Industry and Co-ordinator of Works. 
J. Bult, Assistant Controller of Nonferrous Metals, Department of Munitions. 
Camphin, Assistant Area Controller of Gun Ammunition Production (New South Wales). 
Clark, Metallurgical Adviser, Department of Munitions. 

 Sir Reginald Marcus Clark, K.B.E., Adviser to the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner. 
Clarke, Ordnance Factory. 
H. Clements, Division of Aeronautical Research, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 
L. Dingle, Technical Investigator, Machine Tools and Gauges Section (New South Wales). 
G. Donaldson, Business Administrator, Ammunition Factory, Rocklea (Queensland). 
Donaldson, Director of Explosives Supply. 
F. Evans, Assistant Controller of Nonferrous Metals, Department of Munitions. 

 Sir Ernest Fisk, Economic Coordinator. 
D. J. Forster, Business Manager, Department of the Army. 

 Sir Colin Fraser, Director of Materials Supply. 
Fraser, Engineer. Ordnance Production 
Section (New South Wales). (Retired. Remuneration of ?300 per annum from 1st July, 1941.) 
H. Glen, Assistant Controller of Tool Steel, Department of Munitions. 
Colonel Goodyear, Ordnance Factory. 
M. Gosper, Liaison Officer, Timber Control. Board of Area Management (New South Wales). 
C. Harris, Accountant, Timber Control Board, Department of Munitions. 
J. Hartnett, Director of Ordnance Production. 
Hedberg. Co-ordinator of Projects in regard to all Optical and Electrical Work, Department of Munitions. 
E. Helsham, Engineer, Ordnance Production Section (New South Wales). (Retired. Remuneration ?155 per annum from 1st July, 1941.) 
McK. Hislop, Adviser to Commonwealth Prices Commissioner. Honorarium of ?500 per annum. 
E. Hooper, Leather Controller (Contracts), Department of Supply and Development. 
B. Hutcheson, Controller of Advertising, Department of Information. 
L. Jenkins, Secretary to Director-General of Munitions. 
Sydney Jones. Business Member, Air Board. 
E. Keegan, General Business Manager, Ammunition Factory, Footscray. 
J. Lasry, Adviser to the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner. Honorarium of ?500 per annum. 
B. Levick, Assistant Secretary (New South Wales). 
Essington Lewis, Director-General of Munitions. 
E. Lockhart, Clothing Adviser on staff of Business Member Air Board (employed part time). 
McCormack, Engineering Assistant, Department of Munitions. 
K. MacDougall, Electrical Adviser, Department of Munitions. 
M. McShane, Technical Secretary to Director-General. 
R. Mackie, Assistant Controller of Ferrous Metals, Department of Munitions. 
Maguire, Consultant (Contracts), Department of Supply and Development, exPublic Servant(recalled). Allowance of ?300 per annum. 
Maling, Area Controller of Gun Ammunition Production (New South Wales). 
L. Marcroft, Assistant to Controller of Electrical Equipment. 
J. A. Massie, Director-General of Supply. 
T. Merrett, Technical Assistant to Director-General. 
R. Mitchell, Member (part time) Aircraft Production Commission. Remuneration ?500 per annum. 
Moore, Junior Clerical Assistant, Department of Munitions. 
R, Morgan, Engineering Assistant, Department of Munitions. 
C. J. Nicholson, Controller of Electrical Equipment. 
A. Paddison, Director of Commercial Intelligence, Department of Commerce. 
F. Pollmitz, Board of Area Management, South Australia (State Officer). 
M. Ramsay, Liaison Officer, Department of Munitions. 
E. Scantlebury, Cost Investigator, Board of Area Management, South Australia ( State Officer - Allowance ?50 per annum ) . 
Scott, Financial Adviser to Board of Area Management (New South Wales). 
J. Smith, Director of Gun Ammunition. 
H. Stack, Assistant to Controller, Small Arms Ammunition Production. 
M. Steer, Area Controller, Machine Tools and Gauges Section (New South Wales). 
J. Stewart, Engineer, Ordnance Production Section. 
Kenneth Syme, Inspector on staff of Business Member, Air Board (employed part time). 
G. R.Symonds, Cost Investigator, Board of Area Management, South Australia (State Officer - Allowance ?50 per annum). 
Thorn, Assistant Controller of Electrical Cables, Department of Munitions. 
Colonel F. G. Thorpe, Director of Machine Tools. 
G. Williams, Assistant to Assistant Superintendent, Munitions Supply Laboratories. 
A. Witten, Assistant to Director of Machine Tools. 
Wright, Assistant Manager (Administrative). AmmunitionFactory, Footscray. 
Except where shown above, and also for the provision of travelling expenses in certain cases, the services of the above personnel are being made available without cost to the Commonwealth Government. 
The above information does not cover wartime boards and committees. Information in relation to some of these authorities was published in  Hansard  No. 8. 25th June, page 424. 
Revised information in regard to all war-time boards and committees is at present being prepared by the Prime Minister's Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister supply to the Senate a copy of the indictment and a summary of the evidence received from the Commonwealth representative in America, against directors of the great international aluminium combine known as Alcoa? 
If not, will he give senators an opportunity to peruse the file? 
SenatorFRASER. - This matter con- cerns the Minister for Munitions, who has made the following information available :  - 1 and 2. A copy of each of the documents referred to has been placed in the Library for the honorable senators' perusal. Advice was received to-day from the Australian Trade Commissioner, New York, to the effect that judgment on this case has now been delivered by the Federal Court and the company has been absolved on all charges brought against it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Can itbe taken for granted that the Government will honour the decision of the Fadden Government to grant a service pension to eligible South African war veterans? 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer: - 
Yes. Legislation to provide service pensions for eligible South African veterans will be introduced during the present session. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to implement Major-General SirIven Mackay's recommendation for closer Royal Australian Air Force co-operation so that, if and when the Australian Military Forces become engaged in active operations, there will not be a repetition of the disadvantageunder which AustralianImperial Force divisions went into action in the Middle East? 
Is it a fact that the enemy's successes have been due to the Nazi air squadrons being placed entirely at the disposal of German Divisional Commanders to whom the enemy airmen report direct for orders and instructions ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
This matter had the close attention of the Government prior to Major-General  Sir Iven  Mackay's return to Australia. It is at present the subject of discussion between the Chief of the General Staff, the Chief of Air Staff, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Home Forces, to determine the extent to which it can be given effect in Australia, should the necessity arise. 
No. It is considered that the enemy's successes have so far been due to the overwhelming air superiority he has enjoyed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
In view of the severe shortage of farm labour for the forthcoming harvest, will the Minister indicate to the Senate what action has been taken, or is contemplated, to meet this serious position? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer :  - 
This matter has been receiving the attention of the Man-power Priorities Board, and certain action, announced by the Minister for Labour and National Service several weeks ago, has already been taken to meet the position. Many representations have been made to the military authorities as regards universal trainees, and in a number of cases these authorities have been able to accede to the requests. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it true that men who serve in the Australian Imperial Force and are rejected before serving abroadbecause of ill health, not due to their own fault, are issued with a reject badge? 
Is this badge the same as the one issued to those who are rejected without serving? 
If the answer to No. 2 is in the affirmative, are any steps being taken to provide a different badge to those who have served a period in the Australian Imperial Force? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Men who enlist in the Australian Imperial Force and are discharged prior to embarkation medically unfit (not due to misconduct) are not issued with a reject badge hut with the general service badge. If, however, the disability existed at the time of enlistment, themember is issued with the medically unfit badge, which is the badge issued to those who are rejected without serving. 
See 1 above. 
See 1 above. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.19 to 8.58 p.m. 

.- I lay on  the  table  by  command - 
Estimates of Receipts and Expenditure (Revised) and Estimates of Expenditure for Additions, New Works, Buildings, &amp;c. (Revised), for the year ending the 30th June, 1942. 
Budget l941-42 (Revised) - Papers presented by the Honorable J. B. Chifley, M.P., in connexion with the revision of the Budget of 1941-42  and move - 
That the papers be printed. 
When the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  delivered his financial statement in the House of Representatives  to-day  he indicated that the Government would carry out its duty  to  the country with determination and with all the capacity at its command. In view of the limited time available for an examination of the previous Government's estimates of expenditure, these have been adopted, with some alterations. The main alterations are the provision for increased pay and allowances of members of the forces, the raising of the maximum rate of invalid and oldage pensions, and increases and extensions of service pensions. The Government will also proceed vigorously with the provision of houses for war workers. 
First, as regards our fighting forces, we consider that the proposals of the previous Government for increases in pay and allowances at a cost - mainly in deferred pay - of £6,000,000 per annum, did not satisfactorily fulfil our obligations. The Government has provided increases in active pay and allowances at the rate of £7,300,000 for a full year, and additional deferred pay costing £200,000 per annum. All members of the forces on special force rates of pay will receive an additional1s. a day in active pay. The previous Government's proposed increase of 6d. a day for wives without children has been adopted, and extended to wives with one or more children. The dependants' allowance for the second child will be increased by 6d.  a  day. In addition, the standard allotment of  a  member will be increased from 3s. to 3s. 6d. a day. These increases will commence from the next allotment period. Members of the Royal Australian Air Force and Australian Military Force on special force rates serving at operational stations, such as Darwin, will be credited with deferred pay of1s. a day, while so employed. Members of the Royal Australian Air Force, who have been stationed in Australia longer than six months  and  who later embark for overseas, will be credited retrospectively with deferred  pay  for their service in  Australia  in excess of six months at a rate to increase active and deferred pay to that payable for overseas service. These increases involve payments this year of £4,900,000. After deducting £300,000 allowed in the previous Government's budget, the increased provision is £4,600,000. 
Invalid and old-age pensions will be increased to 23s. 6d. a week, which includes the 6d. increase which would become payable in January next as a cost of living adjustment. The principle of cost of living adjustments will be retained. For a full year the combined increase will cost £1,771,000, and for the balance of this year, £1,022,000. 
Other concessions are provided for invalid and old-age pensioners, including the following: - 
Full invalid pension will be paid where the degree of permanent incapacity is at least 85 per cent. This concession will cost £150,000 per annum and £87,000 for the balance of 1941-42. 
For invalid pensions the Government will adopt the figure of £2 10s. as " adequate maintenance " for an adult in lieu of £1 10s. This proposal, which was provided in the previous Government's budget, will cost £60,000 for a full year and £35,000 for the remainder of this year. 
The Government proposes that certain naturalized British subjects, mainly Syrians and 
Lebanese, will in future be entitled to invalid and old-age pensions. The cost will be about £20,000 per annum, or £12,000 this year. 
Other minor matters brought under notice by the Parliamentary Committee on Social Security will also be included in the amending legislation. 
In regard to service pensions, the pay-, ment to a single man will be increased to 23s. 6d. a week - an additional 2s. 6d. For a married man, an increase of 5s. will be provided to cover also his wife, whose pension will remain at 18s. Service pensions are also to be extended to ex-soldiers of the Boer "War. These increases and concessions will cost approximately £108,000 per annum, and £59,000 during the remainder of this financial year. 
The decisions of the Government involving increased expenditure, after allowing for reductions of £S0,000 in the estimates for the Department of Information and £35,000 for advertising of primary products under the Department of Commerce, result in a net increase of £5,659,000. These alterations increase the estimated total war expenditure from £217,000,000 to £221,485,000, of which £162,485,000 will be expended in Australia and £59,000,000 overseas. In the interests of economy, the Estimates and budget papers are not being reprinted, but Estimates embodying the amendments have been laid on the table and additional budget papers showing the necessary alterations will be circulated. 
The financial position may now be summarized thus - 

<graphic href="169332194110295_5_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="169332194110295_5_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="169332194110295_5_0.jpg"></graphic>

Towards this £160,000,000, on the basis of last year's borrowings, we can expect £66,000,000 from loans for war purposes, leaving £94,000,000 to be raised by increased taxes or increased borrowings over last year's level. Labour's war policy is to expand the war effort to the maximum ; to use all physically fit unemployed, and to divert labour and resources from civil to war purposes for the balance, whilst maintaining the essential living standards of the basic wage family. Prices must be rigidly controlled and private spending limited to the smaller flow of civil goods available. Expansion of credit can be successfully used to finance employment of reserves of manpower in the production of goods and materials. Any increase of the money volume must, however, be accompanied by a corresponding increase of production, and a thorough survey of the reserve man-power field is now in progress. 
The task of the Government is therefore to provide for additional taxes on those best able to bear them; a national savings campaign; an appeal for maximum support for war loans and war savings certificates; and such further control and measures needed to divert our resources from civil to war purposes. Additional taxation is proposed which will produce about £29,000,000 in a full year and about £22,000,000 for the balance of this year. A very considerable increase is provided for income tax on higher incomes, which will bring the total rate almost to 18s. in the £1 in the highest taxed State. For individuals, the present rates for income from personal exertion increase progressively  up  to £1,500. The rate is 10s. in the £1 on income in excess of £1,500. No alteration is proposed in the scale  up  to £1,500, but thereafter the present rate  of progression will be continued up to £2,500, and income in excess of that amount will pay 200d. in the £1. Corresponding changes are proposed for incomes from property, the excess over £2,000 paying 200d. in the £1. In this connexion, tables are being furnished to honorable senators. The increases mentioned are expected to produce £6,000,000 for a full assessment year and £4,500,000 for the balance of 1941-42. In addition, a number of changes are proposed in the method of assessing taxable income. "Where the wife of a taxpayer has a separate income subject to tax, i.e., over £200, this will be added to the husband's taxable income to determine the rates payable by both. Some additional revenue is expected from this change and possible loss of revenue will be avoided where incomes are divided between husband  and  wife to evade taxation.  Dividends received by Australian residents from companies whose profits are derived wholly or partly from outside Australia shall in future be taxable in the hands of the recipients. A small committee may be set up to devise a formula to mitigate any hardships arising from double taxation. The allowance of £50 for dependent children after the first child will be discontinued owing to the introduction of child endowment. This will not involve the disallowance of the present deduction for a child who attained the age of sixteen years during the. year 1940-41. It is proposed to deal equitably with cases where the endowin ent is payable for portion only of the present financial year. At present, where dividends are paid by companies out of Commonwealth loan interest which is taxable at 1930 concessional rates those dividends are taxable in the hands of recipients at the same concessional rates. This concession is proposed to be removed from the recipients of such dividends. The concession will still apply to actual holders - companies and others. Where trusts or settlements are created for the benefit of children who are minors and are unmarried, evasion of tax is to be frustrated by making the trustee liable for the additional tax payable had r.he settlor retained such property. The present deduction for calls paid on shares in mining and afforestation companies is to be discontinued. The profits of a private company are now taxable in full at individual rates either in the hands of the company or its shareholders. This principle will be applied to businesses conducted by partnerships or individuals. At present, when not less than 15 per cent, of the taxable income is required to be retained in the business, a rebate of the excess of the individual's rate over the company rate is allowed. It is proposed to abolish this concession. These proposed amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act are expected to produce £2,900,000 for the remainder of this financial year and £3,400,000 for a full year. In the case of companies, an increase from 2s. to 3s. is proposed, to yield about £4,500,000, most of which will be collected in 1941-42. The present scale for War-time Company Tax commences at 4 per cent., progressing by 4 per cent, steps for every 1 per cent, in excess of the statutory percentage of 8 per cent, on capital employed, with a maximum of 60 per cent, on total profits in excess of 22 per cent, on capital employed. The Government's proposals provide for a statutory percentage of 4 per cent, instead of 8 per Gent., and for the commencing rate to be 6 per cent., increasing by steps of 6 per cent, until a maximum of 78 .per cent, is reached on taxable profits in excess of 16 per cent, on capital employed. These amendments will increase the present yield of £1,000,000 by £4,750,000 per annum, and produce an additional £4,000,000 during this financial year. Estate duty on estates of over £20,000 is to be increased on a sliding scale to a maximum of 27 per cent, at £500,000, instead of 20 per cent., as at present. In a full year £650,000 is expected from this increase, but little additional revenue is expected this financial year. Gift duty will be imposed upon gifts of money or transfers of property for which the consideration is inadequate. In addition to raising revenue, this will also control dispersions of property which are made to avoid other taxation thereon. The rates will be substantially the same as those for estate duty, and will be based on the aggregate value of the donor's gifts within a period of five years. Exemptions are proposed to be allowed for retiring allowances and pensions to employees, also gifts for public, charitable, religious, educational, patriotic and defence purposes. This proposal is expected to raise £250,000 during the remainder of 1941-42 and £500,000 for a full year. Land tax is to be increased by 20 per cent, by a super tax, which will apply only where the taxable balance exceeds an unimproved value of £20,000. About £500,000 additional revenue will be collected in a full year and practically the same amount this financial year. Extra revenue is to be obtained from sales tax, but goods at present exempted will not be affected. The special fields at present taxed at 5 per cent, and 15 per cent, will generally be taxed at 10 per cent, and 20 per cent, respectively. The general rate of 10 per cent, will be retained, subject to certain transfers to the 20 per cent, field. Additional revenue of £1,900,000 is expected from these changes during the remainder of 1941-42 and £3,300,000 in a full year. 
Postal and telephone charges are to be increased as follows to produce an additional £1,500,000 during the remainder of this financial year and £2,000,000 for a full year: - 
War postage tax of  id.  in addition to normal rates on all postal articles except mail matter to and from members of the fighting services, air-mail letters to addresses abroad, and parcels. 
Increased telephone rentals varying from 5s. to 15s. per annum, an additional Jd. for local calls, and increases on a sliding scale on trunk calls exceeding 25 miles. 
Certain increases of customs and excise duties are proposed, which are expected to yield additional revenue of £2,350,000 during the remainder of 1941-42, and £3,500,000 in a full year. Details will be made available at a later stage. 
All these increases of taxes and charges are expected to provide this financial year an additional £22,400,000, of which £5,750,000 is indirect taxation and £16,650,000- direct taxation. The total estimated revenue for 1941-42 will, therefore, be increased from £163,227,000 to £185,627,000. 
The revenue' budget may, therefore, be summarized as follows : - 
The ' estimated total war expenditure of £221,485,000 is to be financed as follows: - Prom cash balances at the beginning of the year, £2,229,000; from revenue, £82,147,000; and from loans, £137,109,000. 
I now refer briefly to other aspects of the Government's financial policy. For our rural industries, the existing machinery for debt adjustment and for. the transfer of farmers from marginal areas will be speeded up. A meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers will examine these matters early next month. 
A bill will also be submitted early in the new year to establish a mortgage bank. 
With regard to banking policy, the Government will introduce regulations to license trading banks with a view to preventing expansion of credit by those banks arising out of increased funds due to war conditions. The licences will include provisions that a licensed bank shall- 
hold on deposit with the Commonwealth Bank its excess investable funds on a basis to be determined by the Treasurer after fully discussing the matter with the Commonwealth Bank; 
publish accounts and balancesheets at intervals and in forms prescribed by the Treasurer; 
furnish to the Treasurer, through the Commonwealth Bank, such statements in respect of their business as the Treasurer directs, and to the Commonwealth Bank such statements as thebank directs ; and 
enable the Auditor-General to investigate and report upon the affairs of the bank periodically, or as directed by the Treasurer. 
In order to assist war production, the Commonwealth has guaranteed certain overdrafts of several private manufacturers with trading banks. In future, this financial assistance will be provided by the Commonwealth Bank. 
TheGovernmenthas recently been reviewing the administration of price control, and is determined to limit the scope for profiteering and to tax excess profits wherever they occur. 
In conclusion, the Government asks for the co-operation and constructive advice of the whole community, and particularly appeals to industrial organizations to keep the wheels of industry moving. The Government has dealt with the financial problem as it now exists, but the war situation is changing rapidly. A review of the budget position willbe made early in the new year, and a supplementary budget brought down to provide for any additional finance which may be necessary. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
Earlier in the afternoon  Senator J.  B. Hayes asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is it intended to build several new mills to deal with the forthcoming flax crop? 
If so, will one be built at Scottsdale, north-eastern Tasmania? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer :  - 
It is intended to build new mills in Tasmania at Wynyard, Ulverstone and Deloraine, and deseeding depots at Branxholm, Campania, Evandale and Sheffield. 
It is not proposed to build a new mill at Scottsdale. At the present time the mill machinery at Scottsdale is housed in leased premises, and the bulk of the 1940 crop for the Scottsdale area has already been processed at this mill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave  - I move - 
That leave of absence for one month be granted to  Senator Uppill  onaccount of ill health. 
When  Senator Uppill  was on his way to Canberra he was taken ill, and it was necessary for him to return to his home in Adelaide, but I am glad to be able to report that his condition has considerably improved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In view of the grave transport difficulties now experienced in forwarding supplies to Darwin, will the Minister for the Interior inform the Senate whether the. Government will consider the provision of transport aeroplanes, in order that fresh fruit and vegetables and essential medical supplies may always be on hand there? 
That matter is now receiving serious consideration. 
Can the 
Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state whether the decision of the Fadden Government to have portion of this year's wool clip appraised at Albany, Western Australia, has been carried into effect? If it has not, can the Minister furnish any information on the matter? 
The appraisement of wool at Albany has been under consideration since the formation of the present Government, and I endeavoured at the earliest possible opportunity to give effect to a part of the decision reached by the previous Government. If the appraisement of wool is not taking place at Albany at present, it is due to the awkward situation brought about by the unpreparedness of the wool brokers in Western Australia to appraise wool at that centre; but I understand that even that difficulty has now been overcome. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact that arrangements have been made at Albany, Western Australia, to enable growers to have their wool appraised  at  that centre, thereby saving the freight to Fremantle ? 
If so, will similar conditions be grunted atTownsville, north Queensland, allowing growers to have their wool appraised in Townsville with a corresponding saving of the freight to Brisbane? 
. -I  lay  on the table the following  paper: - 
Report, together with minutes of evidence, of Committee of Senatorsand Members of the House of Representatives appointed by  the  Government to report upon matters connected with the Apple andPear Board and the disposal of the apple and pear crop. 
The committee recommends that an acquisition scheme should remain in operation for the duration of the war, and it submits a number of suggestions for improving the arrangements now in operation. The Government is giving consideration to the committee's recommendations, and as soon as the policy to be adopted for handling the new season's apple and pear crop has been decided upon, an announcement will be made. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to an article in a section of to-day's Sydney press in relation to proposed regulations to control private banks, in which the following statement appeal's? :  - 
The Government fears an Opposition attack will be lodged in the Senate, and plans are being made to postpone the tabling of regulations until after the Senate adjourns for Christmas. 
Will the Govern merit give an assu rance to the Parliament that all regulations promulgated will be tabled without delay, so that the elected representatives of the people will have an opportunity to take any action that they consider necessary? 
The Leader of the Opposition knows the procedure in regard to these matters.He may accept my assurance that, unlike the Government which it has succeeded, the present Government will not permit any undue delays in those matters. 
Will the 
Government avail itself of the advantages presented by Western Australia for the construction of aircraft, and, if so, howsoon ? 
The Government has this matter under consideration, and upon receipt of reports from the experts and the completion of negotiations overseas, an announcement on the subject willbe made. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention  of  the Government to proceed at once with the plan  of  the Menzies Government for an improvement  of  telephone communications between Western Australia and the eastern States? 
It is the intention to proceedwith the installation of additional telephone and telegraph channels between Adelaide and Perth as soon as the necessary materials are available. Due to the effect of war-time conditions on deliveries and the need for giving priority to important defence communication requirements, some little time will elapse before all the materials required for this large project can be secured. Work has, however, already commenced on certain sections, and it is hoped to undertake the main portion during the early part of 1942. The importance of augmenting the existing facilities between Perth and Adelaide is fully recognized, and the honorable senator may rest assured that the work will be completed at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
With regard to the acknowledged need  fora  system of vocational training  for  certain members of the forces who will return from active service abroad: (1 ) Has the Minister perused the reports on this subject prepared fey direction of the previousGovernment; (2)  if so,  what steps does he propose to take to implement the recommendations contained in those reports ? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answers :  - 
Yes. 
This matter is at present receiving the attention of a sub-committee  of  Cabinet. In the meantime, arrangements have already been completedfor an interim scheme  of  vocational trainingrecommended in the reports  referred  to. 
The Minister for Transport has supplied the following answer :  - 
The question askedby  Senator Collett  in regard to the congested conditions existing in the passenger traffic on the main railway lines  of  the Commonwealth is one which is controlled by the Department  of  the Interior. Onlyin cases  of  emergency would his complaint come under the control  of  the Department  of  Transport and actionhas now been taken to prepare suitable regulations  for  the control  of  transport in emergency in which power will be given to exercise priority in both railway passenger and goods transportation should the necessity arise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation,  upon notice - 
In view of the statement appearing in the press that there will be an increasein the amount of the invalid and old-age pension (suggested) to £15s. per week, will the Government also increase the amount  of  the service pension paid to certain classes of returned soldiers to the same amount and  from  the same date as the invalidand old-age pension increase? 
The Minister for Repatriation states that the matter is under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister ascertain  if  there is any reason for believing that the volunteer defence corps or home guard(as it is now called)is becoming a farce because of the lack of equipment, paucity of instructors, and absence of guidance and direction? 
The Minister for the Array has supplied the following answer : - 
There is no justification  for  the suggestion contained in the honorable senator's question. I am advised that approximately 900 members of the Volunteer Defence Corps did excellent work on large scale exercises held recently in western Victoria. Manuals incorporating the latest training doctrine have been prepared and distributed. Instructors have been trained and equipment as available is being issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister give consideration to the construction of the vital rail link between Alice Springs and Birdum as a contribution to national defence? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer : - 
Consideration has been given to the construction of the rail link between Alice Springs and Birdum. The suggested link would involve approximately 620 miles of new construction. The cost of such construction would amount to between £5,000,000 and £5,500,000, necessitating supply of upwards of 05,000 tons of steel rails, fishbolts, and in addition to approximately 1,500,000 wooden sleepers, or, if steel sleepers were used, approximately 50,000 tons of steel. The estimated time of construction is three years. In addition to the heavy capital expenditure, the work would require a considerable time to complete (apart from the difficulty in obtaining supply of necessary steel and sleepers), and consequently its value as a defence proposal to meet a national emergency that might arise in the near future, has insufficient merit in relation to other necessary projects. With the recent completion of the construction of the road between Alice Springs and Birdum, the capacity for movement over this section is equal to the maximum capacity of each of the railway sections at each end of the road, i.e., Quorn-Alice Springs railway and Birdum-Darwin railway. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What has been the population drift from Tasmania during the present year? 
Is it a fact that the people leaving Tasmania are trained workers, educated and taught their trades by the State of Tasmania? 
If so, will the Government set up an economic committee for the purpose of inquiring into ways and means of arresting this drift of population? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
The net civil migration from Tasmania in the year ended the 30th June, 1941, was - Males, 1,872; females, 1,352; total, 3,224. If natural increase be taken into account, the net change in civil population waa - Males, -014; females, +32; total -582. 
No information is available as to the occupations or education of civil migrants interstate. 
It would not be opportune to institute an inquiry of this kind at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
What are the present marketing arrangements for potatoes? 
Does the Government intend to make a statement in the near future in regard to the marketing of the 1942 crop? 
-The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
Marketing arrangements for potatoes have not been controlled by the Commonwealth, apart from the supervision exercised by the Prices Commissioner. The Victorian Government has, however, instituted control of marketing of Victorian potatoes. 
It is not the intention of the Commonwealth. Government to intervene in connexion with the marketing of the 1942 potato crop unless unforeseen circumstances arise. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate^ what progress has been made with the erection of the munitions factory at Rutherford, and further, when it  IB  hoped to have the factory in production? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer: - 
This matter is dealt with by the Minister for Munitions, who has furnished the following reply : - 
Approximately 15 per cent, of the buildings have been completed to date. Considerable progress is anticipated during the next three months and it is hoped that the factory will be in production in six months' time. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice- 
Is it a fact that  Dr. Charles  Edward Bean has completed, after 22 years,  The Official History of Australia in the War of 1914-181 
If so, will the Government recognize this achievement in a fitting manner? 
The answers are as follows : - 
Yes. 
That may be safely left in the hands of the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Has any arrangement been made for the return of income tax (if any) illegally collected from soldiers in camp during the regime of the previous Government? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer : - 
The question evidently relates to instalments which have been deducted from the pay of home service personnel for the purpose of meeting any income tax which will be payable by the soldiers concerned. The amounts deducted do not represent tax which has been paid by those soldiers. The Income Tax Assessment Act and the departmental procedure make full provision for refunding all amounts in excess of the tax payable. 
The Department of the Army was instructed in September last that adjustments must be made in any case where the instalments deducted had not been calculated in accordance with instructions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister recommend that for the forthcoming wheat crop an increased payment be made above the 3s. lod. guaranteed under the wheat stabilization scheme, and commensurate with the increased cost of production estimated at 3d. a bushel? 
Does the Government propose to make a further payment to farmers on the No. 3 and the No. 4 Wheat Pools before the forthcoming harvest? 
-The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers : - 
The decision of the previous Government to pay a guaranteed price of 3s. lOd. a bushel for bagged wheat will noi be reversed in respect of the forthcoming crop. 
A further advance of 3d. a bushel on wheat in No. 4 Pool was announced last week. 
Having had experience in various Government departments during this war, I appreciate the difficult task confronting the members of the Ministry in wartime. I am conscious of our obligations to the people of Australia. Whilst we, on this side of the chamber, have no caucus, I can assure the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  and his colleagues that we shall support all measures introduced by the Government to enable Australia to make a complete all-in war effort. I assure my friends who now hold important offices in the Ministry that the war has reached a most serious stage and that the problems that lie ahead are difficult. I sincerely trust that the Government will not shirk its responsibilities and that it will not fail to do everything possible to see that we give of our best to further the cause of the Empire. The members of the Opposition consider it to be their right and privilege to offer criticism, and very candid criticism where they think it to be necessary and where they feel that the Government has fallen down on its job. Since I was relieved of ministerial office five weeks ago I have taken the opportunity to look back and to take stock of what has been said and what has been done by honorable senators opposite. Probably, we best anticipate the actions of Governments by studying what has been said by their supporters in the past. Judging by the speeches of honorable senators opposite as recorded in  Hansard,  three charges can be laid at the door of the Government so far as its attitude towards the war is concerned, that i3, if honorable senators opposite propose to follow in the future the policies they have outlined since the outbreak of war. Perhaps I should say that these three charges can be levelled against prominent leaders of the present Government. The first is that some of the Labour party's leaders have a poor appreciation of what constitutes Australia's front line in this conflict. I do not propose to go into detail on that point; but I urge the Leader of the Senate to give to this chamber, before Parliament goes into recess, the assurance that every effort will be made by the Government to ensure that not only adequate reinforcements for the support of our divisions now in the field are made available, but also sufficient supplies of munitions, are provided. The second charge I make against members of the Labour party is in respect of their refusal of repeated invitations by the right honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Menzies)  and the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr. Fadden)  to join with them in the formation of a national government. Having regard to the present serious situation, the people as a whole look upon the continuance of party political warfare in Canberra as a sordid business. The right honorable member for Kooyong made repeated offers to the Labour party to assist in the formation of a national government; but in their desire to get control at all costs they have been successful, with the support of what we might describe as one or two political misfits, in securing a majority in the House of Representatives. The third charge I make against the Government is that, after having assumed office, and having been given an opportunity to formulate a policy to meet our present difficulties, it has merely brought down a budget which was truthfully described by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives as one that might win an election but not a budget designed to give Australia a 100 per cent, war effort. 
I think that we know the reason. Any one who has studied the performances of the Labour party must regretfully acknowledge that even in war-time the Labour Cabinet is ruled by the caucus, which in its turn is ruled by outside organizations. We know that when the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin),  as Leader of the Opposition, was invited to assist in the formation of a national government he was una'ble to come to a decision until he had consulted the Australian Labour party. Sufficient evidence is available to show that even at the party's caucus meeting, held at Canberra recently to consider a proposal to increase the rate of the invalid and oldage pensions, the caucus tail wagged the party dog so successfully that the Government is now committed to honour in the first session in the New Year its election promise to increase the rate of pension to 25s. a week plus the cost of living allowance. When one studies the policy speech delivered by the Prime Minister in August, 1940, one can easily appreciate the difficult position in which members of the Government now find themselves as the result of making all sorts of airy promises prior to the last general elections. They gave those promises, as it were, in the form of blank cheques, and now they find that those cheques must be filled in and either honoured or repudiated. 
During the last twelve months the Menzies Government decided to increase the rate of the soldiers' pay by adding an allowance of 7s. a week, and, in addition, child endowment was introduced. That allowance was to be paid to a wife with a family as a house allowance. The former Government also made an additional allowance of 6d. a day to the wife of a soldier without children. It proposed to pay a further amount of 7s. a week by way of deferred pay. This Government has decided to make that allowance available in the form of active pay. 
When the Prime Minister spoke recently over the air and asked people to contribute to the War loan he made many promises; and I am sure that he will honour them. We may differ in our opinions as to whether that allowance should be treated as deferred pay or as active pay. I am satisfied that the majority of the soldiers affected would prefer that the additional payment be treated as deferred pay, making a total deferred payment of 21s. a week. 
The Menzies Government also increased the rate of deferred pay from ls. to 2s. for soldiers serving overseas. It is interesting to examine the details of soldiers' pay in order to consider whether it would not be wiser to make that allowance available as deferred pay. I submit the following table for the benefit of honorable senators : - 

<graphic href="169332194111124_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

I do think that they are worth it. I have quoted these figures merely to support and justify the Fadden Government's decision that the £1 ls. should be given in the form of deferred pay. At the last general elections, the Labour party promised to increase invalid and old-age pensions to 25s. a week. Members of the now defunct non-Communist Labour party, including the two " A's " opposite, outbid their colleagues and promised 30s. a week. In view of our heavy existing commitments and even heavier future commitments in connexion with this war, this is no time to increase social services. During the five-year period from 1936 to 1941, the cost of invalid and old-age pensions increased from £12,797,726 to £17,366,335 a year1 - a difference of more than £4,500,000, and commitments in this budget will bring these payments up to the staggering total of £20,000,000 a year, which means that the increase during the past six years has been more than £7,000,000. We are informed that in a supplementary budget the Government will increase invalid and old-age pensions to 25s. a week, but I shall not say any more about that until the supplementary budget is introduced. Having regard to the cost of living allowance, and the increase of prices due to inflationary tendencies and other factors, we can appreciate what the figure will be when the war is over. The number of invalid and old-age pensioners has steadily increased from 287,235 in 1936 to 335,681 in 1941- a difference of 48,446. In view of this ever-increasing burden, the Menzies Government in its national insurance scheme provided for the payment of pensions on a contributory basis. I urge the present Government to give serious consideration to the introduction, at the earliest possible date, of a similar scheme. 
It is interesting to note the very convincing comments made by the New Zealand Minister for Finance,  Mr. Nash,  in Sydney, on the 6th November last. I propose to quote what that gentleman said, because he has had considerable financial experience. The Labour Govern- ment of New Zealand should be given credit by the people of all parts of the British Empire, for what it has achieved. I mention this with the object of urging my Labour friends opposite to measure up to what has been done in our sister dominion. The report of Mr.Nash's speech is as follows: - 
In an address to the Legacy Club to-day, the New Zealand Minister for Finance and Customs(Mr. Nash) emphasized that New Zealand was financing most of its war effort by taxation. He said that conscription was being administered in New Zealand as impartially as possible by the Government, some members of which had gone to gaol during the last war because of their opposition to conscription. 
He warned Australia and New Zealanders against the danger of complacency, and expressed doubt whether the people ofeither country yet realized fully the magnitude and the possible consequences of the great issues involved in the war, 
The Labour Government in New Zealand realized in 1939 that social reforms and ideals, justly regarded as urgent, must become secondary to the conduct of the war. It decided that the people who remained behind must do with less so that the men who went to fight might have more, it decided that no goods must be imported from abroad unless they were necessary to the war effort. Imports had been cut very seriously, but the people wore not suffering unduly. 
I commend  Mr. Nash  on having had the courage to make that statement, which I think is very much to the point. 
In discussing the budget I have no wish to weary the Senate unnecessarily, but, in view of the fact that provision is made for a record expenditure of £325,000,000, and for unduly high taxation in certain directions, I propose to cite comparative income-tax figures for Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. This budget imposes a most vicious tax on a few people in Australia who are earning large incomes. 
The honorable senator is talking nonsense. I am dealing with the personal incomes of individuals. At a later stage I shall quote some figures, which should make the honorable senator realize that theoftquoted statement about a group of wealthy men ruling this country is all nonsense and contrary to facts. The following comparison of income-taxrates in this country, New Zealand, and Great 
Britain, is very interesting and illuminating: 

<graphic href="169332194111124_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

I repeat that these vicious attacks at this stage on a comparatively few people in Australia will inflict great hardship. These persons have made commitments and have contributed to Commonwealth loans, and they are again asked to contribute to loans. It is estimated by Treasury officials that of a total of 3,000,000 persons in Australia in 1940-41 who were in receipt of incomes, only 13,600 received incomes over £2,000 a year. Throughout Australia, only 2,100 persons received incomes over £5,000 a year during 1940-41. A taxpayer without dependants with an actual taxable income of £250 a year pays in income tax only half of the amount extracted from his counterpart in Great Britain and pays only threequarters of the rate applicable in New Zealand. On an actual taxable income of £400, Australia asks for £60, whereas New Zealand says"£70 please" and England gets £111. On incomes of £1,000, Australians pay £244, incomparison with £381 by the English taxpayer, or two-thirds. An example of the severity of the Labour Government's proposals in connexion with the higher grades of income, as compared with the United Kingdom and New Zealand, rates, is clearly shown in the table, where it will be seen that, in the lower grades, Australia receives considerably less, whilst, in the higher grades, it receives more than the comparable grades in the United Kingdom and New Zealand. 
It is desirable to give consideration to the estimate of. the Treasury officials of the actual income in Australia for 1940-4.1 to which the proposed taxation measures will apply. The estimated distribution of individual incomes for 1940-41 includes incomes of males, juveniles and members of the forces, but excludes pensions. It is estimated that 2,709,000 persons in Australia, or 90 per cent, of the population, who receive incomes of £400 per annum or under received for the period under review £560,000,000, or 70 per cent, of the national income of £800,000,000. It is estimated that, the persons in receipt of £401 and under £1,000 per annum number 245,000. Their income is estimated at £145,000,000. The number of persons receiving incomes of £1,001 per annum and over is estimated at 46,000, and their estimated income is £95,000,000. Therefore, I say to my Labour friends that if the complete incomes of all of the people in receipt of over £1,000 a year were taken in taxes, the Government would not get sufficient money to balance the budget. The Government has taxed with the utmostseverity, up to 18s. in the £1, a small section of the people, and. has left untouched those in receipt of 70 per cent, of the national income. I suggest that the Government should have adopted the excellent features of the Fadden budget, which provided for the extraction on a sliding scale, from all sections of the community by way of post-war credits, of £25,000,000. 
I suggest, to the Minister that he should study the Melbourne Cup totalizator figures in order to got some idea on that point. The proposed collection in the nature of postwatered it was one of the best features of the Fadden budget, and before the present Government is much older it will be forced to realize that, fact. "Wages were never higher in Australia than they are to-day, and employment, figures were never more favorable. The wage-earners are enjoying better conditions now than they were before the war. I suggest that the proposal to extract, money by way of post-war credits would have been of great help to the budget and would have had a steadying influence on inflationary tendencies. Post-war credits would have been helpful to any government which had to face the grave problems that will confront Australia. 
It is estimated by the Treasury that the payments this year by persons in receipt of £400 a year and under, whose total income is estimated at £560,000,000, will amount, to £3,750,000. Those receiving £401 per annum and under £1,000 per annum, whose income is estimated at £145,000,000, will contribute £9,500,000. Those receiving £1,001 per annum and under £1,500 per annum, whose income is estimated at £28,000,000, will contribute £4,750,000, whereas the small section receiving over £1,500 per annum, with an income of £67,000,000, will contribute no less than £25,750,000. Those figures relate to Commonwealth taxes alone. If we add the State taxes that will be imposed in those parts of Australia where the State taxes are highest, we see that great hardship will ' be inflicted on those persons. 
I shall not go into details regarding the. excessive taxes to be imposed on- companies. During the course of this debate, honorable senators will have an opportunity to point out, the viciousness of the action of the present Government towards Australian companies. For some unknown reason, there appears to be a desire, because a few companies make large profits, to bring companies generally to a condition in which they will be unable to make progress and in which great, injustice will be done to many shareholders. 
Yes, but we should call upon all sections of the community to help in winning it. I am amazed at the unfair criticism directed against the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, particularly in view of the good work that that company has done and is still doing for Australia. A prominent member of the present Government, who represents Queensland, suggested that that company should be taken over and controlled by the Labour Government. Any honorable senator from Queensland should bear in mind the hopeless mess which the Labour party in that State made of its attempts to run State cattle stations and meat and fish shops. I am pleased to know that up to date the Government has not gone any farther with the suggestion. I desire to correct the impres- sion in the minds of some Labour men that in companies like the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited a few persons own all of the shares. I remind honorable senators that there are 20,000 shareholders in the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, and that the average holding of the10,850 shareholders in the Electrolytic Zinc Corporation Limited is under 246 shares. Out of 70,000 shareholders in the Australian trading banks, 52,000, or 74 per cent., own shares not exceeding £500 in value. [ assure my Labour friends that they are inflicting a great hardship on a number of shareholders who are possessed of very  modest means. I am at a loss to understand the objection raised to companies in Australia. When the history of this war is written, one of the brightest pages in  the story of Australia's development will be that relating to the expansion of its secondary industries. They were a godsend to Australia when our primary industries were in difficulties because of loss of markets. Who are the people that control these companies? Ninety per cent, of them are men of initiative and enterprise who have risen from the ranks of the employees. This young country needs such men. 
The excessive taxation of companies which the Government proposes will do a grave injustice to some sections of the community. The Government's proposals are inequitable, when we compare the rates imposed on companies with the rates levied on other sections of the community, particularly as a number of small shareholders who look to dividends from companies as a means of livelihood will be affected.I shall not go into details, but I point out that the Federal tax on companies has been increased from 2s. to 3s. in the £1, that the State tax on companies in South Australia is 2s. in the £1 and varying amounts in the other States, and that undistributed profits are also raxed. Indeed, the tax that is paid is taxed again in the hands of the people who receive the dividends. If the Government will consider the cumulative effect of these several taxes it will find that they will inflict a serious hardship on numbers of small companies in Australia which find it essential to set aside a certain amount each year as reserves. In its desire to hit some of the big companies, the Government is doing a great injustice to a number of small companies and their shareholders. I shall deal later with the Government's proposal in respect of the reduction from8 per cent, to 4 per cent, of the allowable profits made under the War-time Company Tax. A comparison of prices charged by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited for certain main products with the prices charged in the United Kingdom is interesting. The following table sets out the position :  - 

<graphic href="169332194111124_9_0.jpg"></graphic>

The budget contains a paragraph of five lines under the heading "Rural Reconstruction ". 
The Government proposes to begin promptly inmaking effective its policy to give stability to our rural industries. The existing machinery for debt adjustmentand for the transfer of farmers from sub-marginal areas will be speeded up. Arrangements have been made to have these mutters examined at a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers early next month. 
The Treasurer speaks of speeding up the machinery for debt adjustment and the transfer of farmers from sub-marginal areas, butI point out that those two matters are handled by the States, although the Commonwealth provides the funds. However, the budget papers do not show that any extra amount has been provided for these purposes. 
That is so, and poor and misleading padding at that. An examination of the budget will show increased land tax, sales tax and income tax, compared with the rates proposed by the Fadden Government. If we consider the cumulative effect of all of these taxes, as well as the inflationary tendency of the budget, we can come ito no other conelusion than that the proposals of the Government will inflict a further burden on those engaged in rural industries who have not the opportunity to pass on increased costs. Many primary producers who are normally engaged in the export trade are in a most serious financial position because of shipping difficulties. The wheat farmer, for instance, has not only to pay for storing his wheat which cannot be shipped,, but he has also to bear any losses which may be due to weevils. The primary producers of this country will find small comfort in those five lines in the budget. 
It is interesting to note that the present Government has decided to reduce the expenditure contemplated by the Fadden Government in respect of only two items, namely, the Department of Information, and advertisements relating to the sale of surplus primary products. The Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Senator Fraser)  will not be able to speak in glowing terms of the Government's- proposals when addressing the primary producers of Western Australia. 
If the honorable senator himself and the primary producers of his State believe that that is so they are more foolish than I thought. 
The present budget undoubtedly has an inflationary tendency. I do not desire, nor have I the time, to discuss that aspect of the budget now,  but  I remind the Senate of what has happened in the past. The gap between the expected revenue and the contemplated expenditure is £137,000,000. The Government has till the end of June next to bridge the gap. It may do so by borrowing from the people, by imposing heavier taxation on .them, or by embarking on a policy of bank credit. I was pleased to read what the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  had to say on the .subject of bank credit, but at the same time I felt somewhat sorry for the Government's financial adviser.,  Senator Darcey. 
Australians war expenditure for 1940-41 was £170,000,000; the estimate for the present financial year is £221,000,000. If we are to do our utmost in this titanic struggle the Government will find a heavy financial task confronting it for the year 1942-43. The amount borrowed for all public purposes for 1940-41 was £86,000,000. This year, the amount required is estimated at £158,000,000, or £72,000,000 more than in the previous financial year. If the Government intends to rely on bank credit to bridge the gap, I foresee difficult days ahead. 
Another difficulty that confronts the Government is in connexion with manpower. In this connexion I shall read from the budget speech under the heading "Financial Policy"- 
Credit expansion, however, can be successfully used to finance employment of reserves of man-power to expand production of goods and materials. That is to say that any increase in the money volume must be balanced by corresponding increase in production. The extent to which increased production is possible will be determined by the amount of reserve man-power that is available. A thorough survey of that field is now in process. By organization and training many who are now classified as unemployable could he found useful employment  said  thus materially increase production and at the same time provide for themselves and their families. 
Those members of the public who have read comments by various Ministers of the present Government will appreciate that the previous Government accomplished a .great deal in connexion with its munitions programme, its Empire Air Training Scheme, as well as its organization of the Navy and the Army, This, however, is no time to criticize our friends opposite for what they are doing to solve the man-power problem. Undoubtedly it is a difficult problem. The Treasurer says that the Government will make provision for an equitable distribution of nonessential goods, and that ".there must be a switch-over of a very large amount of production from civil needs to war's demands ". The Government has been in office for five weeks, hut I ,see no evidence of that as yet I listened to the Prime Minister appeal for contributions to the war loan during the week that the Melbourne Cup was run. Honorable senators know that a huge sum of money passed through the totalizator in connexion with the Melbourne Cup and the racing carnival generally, and I suggest that if the Government desires to divert expenditure from non-essential needs to war needs it could not do better than follow the lead given by its predecessors, and establish a scheme of postwar credits. Having regard to our commitments and the possibilities in the future, I suggest that the Government should reconsider that matter. 
All honorable senators are concerned with the difficulties that lie ahead. The Opposition is concerned and will be behind the Government in all matters directed towards an all-in war effort. After all, that is the only thing that really matters. As to other matters concerning which we may be forced to disagree with the Government, the Opposition will criticize the Government's proposals where it thinks that criticism is justified in the interests of the people of Australia who have sent us here. I say, finally, that at the last general elections sixteen members now sitting in Opposition were elected by five States, not because of any airy promises that they made, but because they told the electors that their chief concern was the maximum war effort. Our leader said then that he would not make any promises, but that, if returned, his Government would do its best to win the war and to make the land we love a place fit to live in. 
.- The budget of the present Government is a document which we might have expected from the gentlemen comprising the present Ministry. Honorable senators opposite have shown, over the whole period of the war, that they are entirely partisan. Although overtures were made to them on a number of occasions to join with us in conducting the affairs of this country in such a way as to enable us to put forward a maximum war effort, all our advances were determinedly and consistently refused. Consequently, having regard to the election policy speech delivered by the then Leader of the Opposition, we must have expected that the party which now occupies the treasury bench would bring down a budget similar to that which we are considering this afternoon. The first criticism I level at. the budget is that it does not begin to measure up to the problems of the war, and for that reason I believe it was deliberately designed to mislead the people of this country. 
It is worth while to look back over the war period and to consider the varying attitude of our people towards the war. When Great Britain declared war against Germany, Australia immediately joined with the Mother Country in its declaration. I am satisfied that a. majority of the people of Australia were completely behind that action. They were willing and anxious to give of their best to bring the conflict to a satisfactory conclusion. The course of this war has been entirely different from that of the war of 1914-18, because, so far as Great Britain and the Empire were concerned, there was a lull of many months before actual hostilities commenced on a large scale. I know that it is extremely difficult for people living in this fair land, which has never had an armed conflict within its shores, to realize all the dreadful implications of war. Consequently, although the Government of the day appreciated the problems that confronted us, it was difficult to maintain an intensity of enthusiasm among the people as the stalemate on the western front continued. With the advance of the German hordes in the Low Countries and the overrunning of France, the position was revealed more clearly to our people, and again there was the urge to do their utmost on behalf of the war effort. Then, while the British forces were putting up a magnificent resistance to German aggression, and the authorities in the Mother Country were feverishly preparing to resist an invasion, the dangers that confronted us were made much more apparent. When the danger of invasion of the Mother Country appeared to have passed, there was another lull in the affairs of the war. Later, we had the magnificent victory in Libya, followed only too soon by the tragic defeats in Greece and Crete, which again stirred our people to a realization of the menace that confronted them. 
Later still, with the invasion of Russia by Germany, the nations of the world were thrilled by the great resistance put up by our ally against the advance of the German hordes. With the passing of time, however, a feeling is again growing up in this country that somebody else will win the war for us. I am comforted by the fact that a very large number of people in Australia really appreciate the position, and are actually giving of their best to further the success of our arms. I had the privilege and honour of being ministerial head of the Department of Munitions for a short period and I have had an opportunity to learn something of the work of the thousands of men and women in that department. They are doing a magnificent job. The war is very close to them; they know what it means, and they are doing their best to turn out an increasing volume of the munitions of war and equipment that are so badly needed by our forces. On the other hand, we cannot disguise the fact that very many people in this country seem to be still unaware of the serious position in which we find ourselves to-day. The comment made recently by the General Officer Commanding the Australian Imperial Forces in the Middle East, General  Sir Thomas  Blarney, that some people in Australia seem to be living in a carnival atmosphere, is only too true. If we need support for that statement we have only to consider what is happening in almost every part of Australia to-day. On every hand we sec an enormous wastage of time, money and energy on sport. Whilst sport is admirable in times of peace - indeed, it is due very largely to the love of our people for sport that our national characteristics have been developed - in time of war undue regard for sport is completely out of place. It is well that our people should realize that, whilst other nations are prepared to help us in this war - I have already mentioned that Russia is giving of its best to the cause ; the United States of America is also helping us to an increasing degree as the weeks go by - the cold fact is that no other nation will pull the chestnuts out of the fire for Australia and the Empire. It is our duty to-day to do our best; not only a conditional best, not only a best which connotes the maintenance of the high standards that have prevailed in Australia for many years, and to which unfortunately the members of the present Government and their supporters have given lip service but also willingness to equal what is being done by the Mother Country. Before we can approach the effort being made by Great Britain, we shall have to go without many of the things that we now enjoy. It is in this respect that I say that this budget has a misleading or doping effect on the people of Australia. It suggests to them that, whilst a small section of the community will be asked to make sacrifices, the majority of the people will not be any worse off than they are to-day. In offering this criticism of the budget, I have no desire to be unfair. I realize that the Prime Minister, speaking in the House of Representatives, has threatened that although the Government is imposing heavy sacrifices on certain sections of the community, other sections may be called to bear more of the burden. The whole point of that, however, is that whereas the budget and its implications have been made known to the people of Australia, the Prime Minister's statement, to which I have referred, is probably unknown to most of them. It seems to me that the Government has viciously attacked a small section of the people, the voting strength of which is not great, and which the Government considers it to be impossible to win away from its present political affiliations. 
I submit that it is fair criticism. I point out to the Government that the burdens cannot be borne, willy nilly, by any one section of the people of Australia, and that before this war is over, we shall all be bearing burdens and making sacrifices which at present are unknown in this country. On the question of war finance and the savage imposition of taxes on higher incomes, it is perhaps worth reading the following extract from an article written by ProfessorIles on the subject: - 
It must be remembered that in Australia there are few very large incomes, and that the small and medium incomes greatly predominate. Although it would be impossible for the rich to " pay for the war " in the sense of bearing the whole burden of economizing in consumption which it involves, there is an illusory sense in which the rich could be made to do all the actual paying. 
Apparently, that is what the present 
Government is now doing. 
Debate interrupted. 
ProfessorIles continued - 
For it would be possible (if it were not for the effects on production) to finance the war in such a way that the poor would not be called upon to contribute, directly to the Government, anything at all in the form of taxes or loans - as they need not if resort were had on a large scale to bank credit. This would mean that the poor could escape making payments in money to the Government. But it would not mean that they could escape the burden. Indeed, they would bear a larger part of the burden under this method of finance than they would bear under the method of direct taxation. Inflationhas the effect of skimming off part of the real incomes of wage and salary earners and of handing it over to the rich (the profit earners) so that they would in effect have the wherewithal to pay additional sums to the Government in taxation and voluntary loans. It is thus a simple matter to ensure that the rich shall have the means to " pay for the war ", by impoverishing the poor in order that they may. In advocating finance by bank credit, the Labour party would be well advised to take heed of this distinction between paying the money and bearing the burden, and in doing so to remember that inflation is incredibly efficient in producing inequality. 
The Government's effort is doomed to failure. Indeed, it will very seriously retard our war effort in many ways. The people as a whole are quite prepared to bear their fair share of the burden of the war. The rate of tax which the Government proposes to impose on higher incomes would bring forth no objection from me at all if increased taxes were to be spread equitably over all sections of income earners. However, the Government in its taxation proposals, as my leader has already said and demonstrated with figures, is completely out of step with the governments of other countries within the Empire. He mentioned New Zealand, which has had a Labour Government since the outbreak of war. At the beginning of last year I had the pleasure of meeting most of the members of that Government. It has no illusion as to the spreading of the burden over all sections of its people. Indeed, it has shown in no uncertain manner that it believes that the people of New Zealand, as I believe of the people of Australia, are prepared to do their utmost in the prosecution of the war. It has imposed a special war tax on all sections of its people, and I give credit to it for the general war effort it is making. It must be evident to this Government that its proposed taxes on higher incomes will simply dry up the source from which it must hope to draw further taxes in the future. We must realize that no one section of the community has a monopoly of patriotism. We cannot expect those on the higher levels of income to have more patriotism than those on the lower levels. The proposed intensive scale of taxation on the higher incomes will eliminate a very large number of those incomes from the field of taxation altogether, and, consequently, they will not be available in the futureto be taxed by this or any other Government. One of the most serious effects which the Government's proposed taxes will have on these people is that it will make them feel that an injustice has been done to them.. 
I might have expected that interjection from the honorable senator. On many occasions in this chamber honorable senators opposite, particularly the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings),  have uttered the canard that it is not the amount of tax that matters, but the amount that is left to the taxpayer after he has paid tax. That is a deliberate half-truth, because the amount that is left to the taxpayer after he has paid tax must be related to the individual taxpayer's commitments. It is simply fatuous to suggest that a man who is accustomed to an income of, say, £5,000 a year, to take a figure at random, has not to meet commitments far in excess of those which, say, a man who normally earns £1,000 a year has to meet. 
I shall now comment briefly upon the effect of the Government's company taxation proposals. We have heard  ad nauseam  from honorable senators opposite criticism of the big companies, the so-called greedy profit-makers, the great monopolies of this country. Most honorable senators opposite know the position of those companies just as well as I do. Their statements on this point are deliberately designed to mislead certain people. They know perfectly well that the bigcompanies have enabled us to achieve our present scale of production of munitions and equipment. 
Workers are employed by small as well as big companies. Unless the worker has the requisite wherewithal and direction he is incapable by his own efforts of producing the things we require; and, unfortunately, the commodities that we require in war-time are entirely dissimilar to those which we require in times of peace. Engineering capacity which is admirably suited to civil production is in many cases entirely unsuitable for the manufacture of munitions. Thus, we have had to look mainly to the large organizations to assist us in our munitions output. 
I have already paid a tribute to the workers. I said that the munitions workers particularly have an appreciation of the seriousness of our present position. I pay tribute to them, because I have some idea of what many thousands of them are doing. However, the fact remains that unless we could have got the assistance of the large organizations and, indeed, many small undertakings -I do not exclude the small concerns - we should not have achieved our output of war production. What we need in this war are munitions and more munitions in the shortest possible time, and it is to the large companies that we must look for those supplies. It is perfectly obvious that, confronted with severe and savage taxation, these organizations, in spite of their desire to do their utmost, will not be able to contribute as much to our war effort as they have done in the past. I have a knowledge of many of these organizations. They have expended large sums on equipment in order to provide our requirements of munitions, although they realize that they will not be able to recoup themselves of that expenditure when the war is over. That expenditure will be a total loss to them. Many of those organizations are following that policy, but the Government's taxation proposals will considerably reduce their capacity for this work. It seems strange that honorable senators opposite should suggest that these big organizations are most concerned about placing themselves in a f avorable position in order to be able to take the greatest advantage of the postwar period, and at the same time urge that we should develop the smaller companies and organizations. Surely they realize that whilst the Governments taxation proposals will effect the bigger companies which I have cited the new taxes will also make it impossible for the smaller companies to progress. In that way, the Government will reduce to a considerable degree the ability of the smaller companies to help in our war effort. Yet those smaller organizations have already done magnificent work. The effects of this kind of company taxation will be bad on the bigwellestablished companies which have huge reserves, but they will be worse on small companies, many of which have just altered their production methods to meet our requirements. It will be impossible for these small concerns to continue to expand in anything like the way they would have done had taxation been kept at a reasonable level. The Government would be well-advised to disabuse its mind of these false impressions. I am confident that honorable senators opposite will appreciate the position much more clearly now that they have had an opportunity to see what is being done. 
I should not be prepared to exempt those controlling small companies or any one else. I should endeavour to impose taxes in a fair and equitable manner, which would enable growing concerns to carry on and expand in a way which would be of some assistance to our war effort. Unless that be done, there will be a damaging effect on the wonderful development that has taken place hitherto in our engineering and allied industries during the war. 
I wish to make a brief reference to another of the real dangers of this budget. It is extraordinary to me that the present Government, willy-nilly, has thrown overboard the previous Government's proposals in regard to compulsory loans. I had an opportunity to listen to the Attorney-General  (Dr. Evatt)  in the House of Representatives when he said that compulsory loans did not build up the post-war credits but post-war debits, but obviously future debts are increased whether loans are compulsory or voluntary. Compulsory loans have many merits and advantages, and I have not yet heard from a Government supporter, either in this chamber or in the House of Representatives, a reasoned statement of valid objections to that system. Supporters of the Labour party when in opposition, said that they were against compulsory loans, but even at that time they did not say why. Now that they have taken over the reins of government, they are attempting to be consistent, but in doing so they are intensifying their war financial problems. 
If people of this country had to subscribe to compulsory loans the same amount of money as the people of New Zealand have to pay in taxes, the return would be very much more than was estimated in the Fadden budget, which was opposed by the Labour party. The Labour party in this conn- try considers itself to be an advanced Labour party. Like the soldier who thought that everybody else was out of step with him, it believes that it is the one Labour party inthe British Empire which is in step, but I do not believe it, and before long honorable senators will find out that it is not others who are out of step. The refusal to introduce a compulsory saving scheme has rendered necessary the raising of extra loans amounting to approximately £20,000,000. 
Had the honorable senator listened to what the New Zealand Minister,  Mr. Nash,  said probably he would have been greatly enlightened on many points. 
The cold fact is that under theFadden. budget we had to raise by way of loans, in Australia this year, five months of which have already passed, approximately £142,000,000, including £20,000,000 for the States. Incidentally I have not heard very much from a certain Labour Premier who, when the previous Government was in office, was consistently haranguing and criticizing it for the paucity of its loan allocations to the States. I see nothing in this budget which suggests that the Labour Government will be any more liberal to the States in the way of loan allocations than was the previous Government. 
I agree with that, and the Government will soon be forced to do some of the things which it has avoided doing on this occasion. By the time a supplementary budget is presented, honorable senators opposite will have obtained a good deal of information which will assist them infuture considerations. Whereas theFadden budget provided for the raising of £142,000,000 in loans, the present budget provides for the raising of £158,000,000. 
If subscriptions to the present £100,000,000 loan now being floated are any indication, the Government has a first-class problem ahead of it. I say without fear of contradiction that the Government will find it impossible to raise loans on the. scale envisaged in this budget, and consequently it will be necessary to fall back upon what my friend  Senator Darcey  has so consistently advocated in this chamber, namely, bank credit. The Government will be judged by results, and I arn prepared to reserve my final judgment until the results are apparent. 
The Government is more likely to fall. It is advisable that the people should know just what the position was when this Government took over the treasury bench. The Menzies Government conducted the affairs of Australia during two years of war, and in all that period, according to the latest figures available, the average increase of prices has been under 10 per cent. I mention that because it is one of the very important factors upon which the Government will be judged. It is fatuous for the Government to talk of an all-in war effort if, at the same time, it encourages rising costs and prices. Consequently, I say deliberately that this is the main factor on which the Government will be judged, and on which the success of its war effort will depend. It is hopeless to endeavour to engage in a maximum war effort if there is to be a rising pile of costs, wages and prices. The omens for the future are already not good. If reports which have appeared in the newspapers he correct - I agree that newspaper reports are not always accurate - adverse effects will soon be felt. By various -means the previous Government held costs and prices down in a way which has not been excelled in any other country engaged in this war. They have been controlled not by flatly tightening down on prices and wages, as is done in Nazi Germany, but by endeavouring first of all to control prices on a reasonable basis. Incidentally I pay a tribute to the Prices Commissioner for his valuable work,  which  I consider has been exceptionally successful. Secondly, prices and costs have been kept at reasonable levels by allowing arbitration machinery to decide industrial matters. It is reported - I speak only from knowledge gained through that report - that that system has been departed from already. We have been told that, the Government has agreed to a mutual arrangement between certain workers and employers on the question of wages, without regard for the effect that such an arrangement might have upon other classes of workers, and indeed upon the entire arbitration system. I refer to the reported agreement between the brick, tile and pottery interests and their employees. If this be the system  under  which this Government proposes to settle industrial disputes, costs will rapidly increase. Not only will there be a rise in costs, but also the effect will filter right through the whole structure of our war effort, and its cost will increase materially. The result will be the same as the effect of inflation" in any other country, namely, that the conditions of those people whom such action is designed to assist will become worse. 
I have no objection to increasing the rates of pensions, but I believe that the real rate of pension is its purchasing power. I recall that a previous labour Prime Minister who had avowed that he would not reduce pensions, eventually was forced to admit that it was better to reduce pensions and maintain their purchasing power than to retain the then existing rates. I draw the Government's attention to the fact that, if it travels down the easy way, not only the pensioners, but the workers generally, will be worse off than they have been, and the hardship will be felt particularly by those sections of the community whose support this Government has made violent efforts to obtain. I refer to those persons in receipt of fixed salaries. It is assumed that, owing to cost of living adjustments, persons employed under awards of the Arbitration Court can withstand the effects of inflation. Certainly they can in the early stages, but the large section with fixed incomes has not the advantage of automatic salary adjustments to compensate for increases of the cost of living, and it will suffer first from the results which I fear from the present budget. 
.- I am conscious of the extraordinarily difficult task which was presented to the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  and to the previous Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  in preparing the budget proposals for this year. The task of the present Treasurer was rendered lighter than it might otherwise 
Iia ve been by reason of the fact that the financial affairs of this country during the first two years of the war were conducted with great skill. That enabled us to put forward a tremendous war effort and preserve on a perfectly sound foundation the whole financial structure of this country. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Menzies Government for its financial policy during those two years. It has to its credit an achievement that is little short of remarkable. 
It is time the honorable senator became a little less irresponsible, since he is now 'a Minister. The truth is that, despite the large sum that is required for war purposes, interest rates have fallen since the war. 
The fact that interest rates have fallen is due in no small measure to the wise policy adopted by the Menzies Government. I add the fact referred to by  Senator McBride  that, since the outbreak of war, commodity prices in this country have risen by only 10 per cent. That is another remarkable achievement. When  Senator McBride  was speaking, the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  indulged in another of those irresponsible statements to which we became accustomed when he sat on the opposition side of the chamber, but which come ill from a Minister of the Crown. He interjected " Why should prices rise at all ? " Prices have risen because costs have risen, and it is impossible to keep down the price of any commodity if the price of producing it is increasing. One of the big factors in the increasing costs that have led to increased prices is increased wages. Members of the Joint Committee on Profits have been giving attention to this matter, and have had perfectly clear proof before it that prices in 
Australia, on the average, have not increased more than 10 per cent, during the war, and that wage costs are a big item in the price of many commodities. According to the Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland, who has carefully investigated the matter, wage costs have increased by more than 12 per cent, in all cases examined by him, and he expressed the view that that was a conservative estimate. 
What is the task with which the Treasurer is faced at present? It is no light one. It is that of how to raise the sum of £325,000,000 from 7,000,000 people, a task which two years ago would have been thought well nigh impossible. In order to provide the colossal sum envisaged in this year's budget, the contribution from the total population of Australia will be almost £50  per capita.  The first thing to be done by  any one who considers such a problem is to ascertain its nature, and then to proceed to administer to the community the proper medicine. These are not the days when such a task can be undertaken without imposing sacrifices upon every section of the community. 
Some should pay more and others less; but I am surprised that the Minister should be so enthusiastic about the present budget, because ever since I have been a member of this chamber, he has advocated the collection of the whole of the income tax from persons receiving over £500 per annum. Now he is an enthusiastic supporter of a budget presented by a Government that refuses to impose additional taxes on anybody with an income of less than £1,500 per annum. 
A curious feature of the budget speech is that it sets out in perfectly clear language certain principles that are perfectly sound, but the Treasurer does not implement them. He is like a doctor who, having had a look at a patient, has diagnosed the disease accurately, and knows the kind of medicine that should be given, but says, "No, I cannot give him that stuff ". The Treasurer refuses to administer the medicine which he knows the patient should have. 
That is largely the reason. It is also because the medicine is supposed to be politically unpalatable. This budget is founded on political expediency, and so far as it differs from theFadden budget, is divorced entirely from the principles which the Treasurer himself expounded. 
The problem confronting us is of a twofold character. We have reached the stage where we can continue the war effort upon the basis on which we all desire that it should be continued only by diverting men and machines from civil production and seeing that they are employed in the production of goods and services for war. That position is frankly acknowledged in the budget speech. The Treasurer said that, notwithstanding any increased production that could be brought about, there must be a switch over of a large volume of production from civil needs to war demands. With that statement I entirely agree.. That is the physical side of the problem. The financial side is involved in the question as to how the burden of that diversion shall be carried by the community. 
Yes, and according' to ability to pay. Those are the principles which should be followed at present by any government; but, because the principles followed in the present budget involve the very reverse of payment according to ability to pay, I am opposed to certain features of the budget to which I intend to refer. One satisfactory way of seeing that thecommunity pays in accordance with its ability is to tax people on their incomesin accordance with the amount of those incomes. There is no fairer or more certain way of seeing th at the burden is properly distributed amongst all members of the community in accordance with their ability: 
Yes, if necessary. If the basic wage-earner, in order to meet the needs of war, is: to be forced like every other member of the community to make some contribution to the war effort, the fairest way to do it is to tax him, and not reach the same result by the roundabout, unfair and inequitable methods inherent in the present budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  has already mentioned some phases of the problem confronting Australia. He has referred to the fact that no new burden is imposed on incomes under £400. This section of the community has an income of £560,000,000. It contains 90 per cent, of the earners of income, and comprises 70 per cent, of the national income; yet it contributes only £3,250,000 to the war effort. 
Let us compare the presentGovernment's policy with what has been done by the Labour Government of New Zealand. Out of the same fund, from the same kind of people, that Government would obtain revenue amounting to at least £56,000,000. The New Zealand system starts with a tax of 10 per cent, or 2s. in the £1. The basic wageearner - indeed, a person earning £2 a week, which is less than the basic wage - contributes £10 out of his £100 to the war effort. 
It is a better policy than the policy of the Commonwealth Government as. set out in this budget. If it be necessary to get the money for the war effort, then that is the policy which I support. 
SenatorFoll.  -It  is better than robbing the people by inflation. 
Exactly. I believe that that section of the community which has the use of £560,000,000 must bear its share. It is because I believe that it cannot, in fact, escape from its share of the burden that I believe that the money should be extracted from that section in the only fair way by which it can be obtained. Instead of diverting money from civil production to war activities by means of post-war credits or compulsory  loans, as the Fadden Government proposed, this Government runs away from the task altogether. It starts with a miserable contribution, for it proposes to increase taxes by only £22,000,000. Some proportion of that amount it plans to get by means of an increased sales tax. It is amazing to find aLabour Government preferring a sales tax to an income tax based on ability to pay. 
It may be that the community does not see the sales tax, but it certainly feels that tax. 
Exactly. That is my point. Indirect taxation is the most inequitable method of taxing which can be devised. 
Because a particular government does a certain thing is not to say that indirect taxation is to be preferred to direct taxation. This Government proposes to levy indirect taxation, which falls inequitably upon people with large families, low wageearners and invalid and old-age pensioners. It does that in preference to taking the straight and honest course, and saying to the man who is earning £300 a year : " Look here, old chap, it is up to you to contribute £15 a year to the war effort". The Government has resorted to this method rather than impose direct taxation; but that is not the whole story by any means. Over £70,000,000 of war expenditure is to be obtained from " we don't know where ". The Government has run away from the problem of raising that amount of this year's war expenditure. I submit that the Government is not serious when it tells the people that it proposes to raise £130,000,000 this year by way of loan. Any man who studies this problem must come to the conclusion that the Government will not be able to raise half of that sum in this way. 
What a splendid idea ! Here we have a Labour senator as a protagonist of high rates of interest ! If 6 per cent, or 7 per cent, is the rate of interest which the honorable senator thinks is necessary- 
The honorable senator said that we would soon get the money. 
The Government expects to get a large proportion of the £70,000,000 from the people earning incomes of less than £400 a year. 
If6 per cent, or 7 per cent, interest be necessary as an encouragement, then I say that it is in that section that encouragement is necessary in order to get the money. The fact is that we raised only a little over £60,000,000 by means of loans last year. I cannot see any prospect of raising anything in excess of that amount this financial year. If my prediction be correct, it means that about £70,000,000 of war expenditure will have to be provided by bank credits. In other words - and this is the important factor - at a time when, on the Treasurer's own statement, the production of goods and services for civil purposes is decreasing, the Government proposes deliberately to increase by over £70,000,000 the amount of credit available in the community. 
There is all the difference in the world between resorting to bank credit at a time when there are idle resources in the community which it is desired should be brought into production, and increasing bank credit at a time when it is proposed to decrease the production of civil goods. 
I am consistent. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  is not able to point to any speech of mine which is inconsistent with what I am now saying. I invite any member on the Government benches to turn up what I said about this subject last year. If he does so, he will see that I am repeating to-day what I said then. The sum of £70,000,000 of bank credit is to be found and distributed throughout the community at a time when our ability to produce goods and services for civil purposes is decreasing. 
Order! Honorable senators must discontinue interjecting. The honorable senator is entitled to state his case. Other honorable senators will have a similar opportunity. 
Another aspect of this problem is of some importance. In Labour circles it seems to be assumed that companies are always fair game. After all, it must be remembered that companies do not exercise votes. Whenever increased taxation Ls necessary it is becoming the practice to increase the taxes on companies, but governments which do that overlook the fact - and governments of all political parties have been guilty of this in some degree - that companies do not exist in reality. There is no such thing as a company that can be felt, that can be hurt or taxed. In other words, the taxes which companies pay are paid by their shareholders. When an increase of company tax is imposed by a government the principle of payment of tax in accordance with ability to pay is again departed from. If a flat rate of tax of 3s. in the £1 be imposed on a company that rate of tax is carried by every shareholder in it, whether rich or poor. The widow- 
Whilst it may be possible for most people to bear a tax of 2s. in the £1, the burden placed upon them is infinitely greater when the tax rises to 4s. in the £1. As I have said, this is an inequitable method of taxing. Some taxing of companies is necessary, I agree, even if it be only to deal with undistributed profits; but in respect of the profits of companies which are properly distributed the burdens to be imposed on shareholders should be in accordance with their incomes, and the rate applied to their earnings from dividends should be the appropriate income tax rate. I take exception not only to the proposed increase of the tax to 3s. but also to the proposal of the Government to impose a vicious tax on company profits. 
Every honorable senator is entitled to be heard without interruption. I again ask the honorable senator to discontinue interjecting. 
I wish to  commend, as I think I should, the activities of the previous Government in its control of prices. I have already referred to the fact that I believe the achievements of the last two Governments in that regard to have been little short of remarkable. A great deal of their success in that direction was undoubtedly due to the efficiency of the Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland. 
So far as taxation goes, as a means of reducing consumption, I think that for middle and lower incomes it is better to get the reduction by means of taxes on goods and services not really essential, which can be forgone without injury to health or efficiency. 
In perfectly plain language that means that these taxes are being imposed on commodities for the purpose of reducing consumption, and that involves that the Treasurer anticipated that the tax would be collected by the retailer from the consumer in the form of increased prices. 
I believe that all honorable senators are concerned at this time, as I am concerned, with the war  situationWe  all recognize that if the need arises all sections' of this community should make their contribution to the war effort. We cannot carry on the war on the scale on which it is being carried on at present without imposing tremendous real sacrifices upon every member of the community. It would be a good thing psychologically for this country if the Government were brave enough to indicate that fact in its financial measures, and drive straight home to every member of the community that all of us must bear our burden, that those burdens must be borne now while the war is on, and that they are the necessary insurance premiums which we must pay if we are to retain our liberties as a democratic community. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  erroneously spoke of me as the financial adviser to the Government. I assure him that Professor Copland is still the financial adviser to the Government, and that he will find that that gentleman's orthodoxy will be extended almost to any degree in order to retain his position. I shall not be the least surprised if he is prepared to accept any revolutionary monetary change in order to keep his job. The Leader of the Opposition quoted certain figures in order to show that the banks earn very little profit. The Bank of Australasia was founded in 1832 with an original capital of £200,000. In 1936, its capital was £4,500,000 and its disclosed reserves amounted to £4,750,000, whilst its reserved profits used in the business of the bank totalled £3,301,317. When we speak of company profits, and particularly the profits of a banking company, we should not overlook the degree of watering of stock that is done by these companies. The Bank of Australasia is an English company and most of its profits go to England. The value of the bank's properties is at present shown at only £200,000; but during the nineteen years preceding 1936, £2,648,496 was written off the bank's properties. Those properties are invariably situated in the centre of cities, and their value is constantly rising. The fact that in a period of nineteen years this bank has written off an amount of £2,648,496 in respect of depreciation of its premises, that is, off its profits, reveals just one way in which these companies hide their real profit. 
I have repeatedly told honorable senators that it is impossible from a bank's balance-sheet to find out actually what profit it really makes. From 1900 to 1932, the net profits of the banks in Australia amounted to £122,351,428. The original capital of the Bank of Australasia was £200,000, and in 53 years, it has paid £6,000,000 in dividends. These are official figures which I have taken from the  Year-Book.  The Union Bank, which commenced with a capital of £140,000, has paid £8,000,000 in dividends. Consequently, bank profits are much greater than some people imagine. During the last war the banks paid up to 15 per cent, in dividends. The banks make a habit of publishing their smaller profits, but they never disclose their bigger profits. I happen to be a member of the Economic Society of England. Even at present, the banks in England are paying from 14 per cent, to 16 per cent, and the  chairman  of directors of one bank in presenting the balancesheet, told the shareholders the bank was paying a dividend of 14 per cent, because of the fact that they were lending hundreds of millions of pounds to the Government. 
I have just given the figures of the Bank of Australasia. 
It has paid up to 15 per cent ; and that does not in any way disclose its real profit. So long as the banks place hundreds of thousands of pounds to secret reserves, it will be impossible to say how much they really make. I venture to say that honorable senators will find that the inquiry by the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  backed up by the AuditorGeneral into the profits of Australian banks will provide a big surprise. 
Honorable senators opposite have stated that persons with incomes up to £1,500 a year will not be touched under the Government's taxation proposals. During last financial year, the increase of taxes under the lower incomes was increased by over 300 per cent. 
Honorable senators opposite said that people earning such incomes are not taxed. 
Under the previous Government's budget, the tax on lower incomes was increased last year by 300 per cent. 
But the Leader of the Opposition said that these people are not paying tax; yet his Government increased the rate of tax on incomes by over 300 per cent. I have friends in Hobart, who complained about the increase of tax imposed by the Fadden Government. One man who paid £15 in tax in one year was obliged to pay £45 in tax the following year. Obviously, we cannot continue increasing the rate of tax on small incomes. I point out to honorable senators opposite that the Keynes plan, which the Fadden Government was prepared to adopt, was turned down by the British Government. Keynes had two schemes. The British Government refuses to use the national credit in any way whatever, just as the Fadden Government refused to do so. The Fadden Government proposed to adopt the Keynes plan in order to tax incomes of £100 and over, proposing to pay back this tax, which was to be levied in the form of a compulsory loan. Where would we get the money to pay back those loans? We have not got it now. The same observation applies to war debentures. A war bond of a face value of £1 is sold for 16s. Where will we get the money to redeem those bonds? That is the absurdity of taxation. Personally, I do not believe in taxation at all. Recently, I journeyed throughout Australia as far north as Cairns and as far west as Perth, addressing meetings, at which I showed how the war could be financed without the imposition of additional taxes. The mistake which the Fadden Government made, and I hope that this Government will not repeat it, is that it failed to realize that wars are not fought with money at all. Do honorable senators realize that 75 per cent, of taxes levied to-day are used to pay interest on previous loans? Before the outbreak of this war we were paying nearly £1,000,000 a week on back borrowing. If we realize that wars are not fought with money, we should have no need to impose taxes. Wars are fought with credit. The proof of that fact is that in the first year of this war the Associated Banks of Australia bought £07,000,000 worth of war bonds and treasury bills. That is how we fought this war during its first year; and we can continue to fight it by using credit so long as we get the credit through the right channel. If that credit came through the Commonwealth Bank we need not impose additional taxes. However, the Eadden Government imposed additional taxes last year, and it seems that we shall continue that practice because we have followed it for the last 40 years. Nothing hurts the conservative mind so much as a new idea. I propounded a few new ideas in this chamber, but they were turned down by the previous Government. For instance, I suggested, some months ago, that in order to raise revenue we should insert a clause in every Government contract to compel all contractors to finance their contracts through the Commonwealth Bank. That would only be a reciprocal business arrangement. It would tend to teach the people to use their own bank, and it would bring in hundreds of thousands of pounds a. year in profits to the people's bank. The Fadden Government flatly turned down that proposition ; I shall bring it forward again. 
In view of the financial mess left to us by the preceding Government, we have done the best we could in the short time at our disposal. But I promise honorable senators opposite that some of the financial ideas which I put before this chamber in the past will be embodied in the supplementary budget. 
The general  belief  is that there are three reasons, and only three reasons, why taxation is necessary. The first is that the money that the public possesses is the only source of money available to the Government to pay for the war or social services. That is a fallacy. We have not taxed the people sufficiently in order to be able to raise the money we require without using credits. The second reason is that the only way to switch the employment of labour and raw material from civil production to production for war purposes is to deprive the public of part of their incomes, so that that part of their incomes is spent by the Government. That is another fallacy. The third of these reasons is that if the public has more money to spend than there are consumers' goods to buy, inflation must ensue. I shall show that those conclusions are false; yet they were embodied in the financial policy of the Fadden Government. That they are false is proved by the fact that we have been using credit ever since the war started. I shall ask very shortly how much it cost the previous Government to tell the people that if they did not buy war bonds, the war output would be diminished. That is another fallacy. If we had an extra £1,000,000,000 in Australia at this moment it would not give us one extra tank or one extra aeroplane. That should be obvious to honorable senators. One reason why the three grounds which I have mentioned above for the belief that taxation is necessary are ill-founded is stated by the British banking journal, 77ie  Banker - 
It is not in the least true that the production of arms could not take place, only on a smaller scale, if the public  were  not providing the money in the form of gifts or loans. If the money were not forthcoming in one of these ways, it would have to be created. And this the State as the monetary authority can do perfectly well at negligible cost and practically without limit. 
In England, £600,000,000,000 worth of credit was created during the last war. I hope that we shall not follow a similar procedure. The Commonwealth Bank can lend interestfree money to the Government. Shortly after I was elected to the Senate, I asked whether it was the intention of the then Government to discuss the findings of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems before the ensuing Christmas vacation, and the reply I received was " Yes ". That was nearly four years ago, yet that subject has never been debated. If it had been discussed, the then Government's financial policy would have been revealed as being in direct opposition to the findings of the royal commission which it appointed. That is the reason why preceding governments failed to provide honorable senators with an opportunity to discuss that matter. Although  Mr. Fadden  spoke for an hour when introducing his budget, he mentioned the Commonwealth Bank only once. Just before he concluded his speech he said that there was an honorable understanding with the bankers that there should, be no great increase of profits.  Mr. Fadden  also said that he intended to give effect to one of the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems, namely that the private banks should  deposit some of their surplus reserves with the Commonwealth Bank, to protect their depositors. It has been stated that the essence of bank credit is faith on the part of the depositors that their money is safe in the bank, and faith on the part of the hankers that at the stipulated time, borrowers will return the money which has been loaned to them. That is a fallacy. The essence of bank credit is security. Money cannot be borrowed on faith. If I went to a bank to obtain money and said that I hoped that the banker would have sufficient faith in me, he would say that business could not be done on those terms. In fact  I  was once told that, when I went to a bank to borrow money and the banker asked me what security I had in the form of bricks and mortar. I got the money on that occasion, but it was not because the banker had faith in me; it was because I had the necessary security.  Mr. Nash,  the New Zealand Minister for Finance, was here recently and stress has been laid upon what has been done in New Zealand. The fact is that the New Zealand Government bought the bank established by  Sir Otto  Niemeyer. After the last war the Bank of England sent emissaries, of whom  Sir Otto  Niemeyer was one, all over the British Empire to set up new banks, ostensibly to help the financial systems of the various countries in which the new banks were to be established.  Sir Otto  Niemeyer came to Australia but he found he could not establish a bank here because we already had a people's bank - the Commonwealth Bank. The Commonwealth Bank has been referred to as a central bank, but actually it is nothing of the kind. The term "central bank" is misapplied to the Commonwealth Bank. A central bank is the principal bank of a private banking system, and the Commonwealth Bank is the very antithesis of that, notwithstanding the mutilation which it suffered at the hands of the Bruce-Page Government in 1924. When  Mr. Bruce,  on the occasion of his last visit to this country, was sent around Australia to tell us what had happened after the Munich pact, he told us about the probable enemies of the Empire. I listened to that gentleman in Sydney, but I did not say anything to him on that occasion because he said that lie intended to visit Tasmania. He did visit Tasmania and once again he told us  about the enemies of the Empire. I said, " What about the enemies within our gates?" He asked me what I meant by that, and I said, "I mean what I 3ay; what about the action of the Bruce-Page Government in altering the constitution of the Commonwealth Bank in favour of the private banks? In my opinion, that was an .act of treachery to the people of Australia ".  Mr. Bruce  flushed ; he did not like it; but it was quite true. He was one of the enemies within our gates. We had another enemy,  Mr. Casey,  who introduced an amending Commonwealth Bank bill before the outbreak of this war. The ob ject was to amend the Commonwealth Bank Act in various ways, and to establish a mortgage bank. It was proposed to establish a mortgage bank by selling inscribed stock and debentures to provide the necessary capital. At that time the Commonwealth Bank had £19,000,000 worth of assets, and its deposits totalled £1S4,000,000. The trick was this: The only people who could buy inscribed stock at that time were the trading banks-, so that, in effect, the new mortgage bank would have been under the control of the private banks. There is also another unpleasant point: Under company law, debenture holders can take over an organization if they are not satisfied with the manner in which its affairs are being conducted. Therefore, the private banks could have taken over the new mortgage bank. Fortunately there was so much opposition to the proposed legislation that the matter was dropped. That is a good example of fifth column work in this country. The aim was to rob the people of the Commonwealth Bank, which is the main asset that Australia possesses to-day. It has been said that the Scullin Government was the first administration to reduce invalid and old-age pensions. That action was forced upon the Scullin Government because of the state of this country's finances after they had been in the hands of the Bruce-Page Government for ten years. When  Mr. Scullin  returned from Great Britain he found an empty treasury, an adverse trade balance of £30,000,000, and the London loan market closed to Australia simply because a Labour government was in office.  Mr. Scullin  had to look around for some new means of raising revenue because, under the present financial system, the only way any government can carry on is by continually borrowing money. The only source of money was the private banks, and as that source had been closed the Government could not carry on. That is why I want to see a change. Use should be made of the great Commonwealth Bank, which has the assets of Australia behind it. The private banks created the last depression deliberately; they can create depressions whenever they desire. A depression can be started only by calling up of overdrafts, and withholding further credit. Under the present system, the private banks have the power to do these things at any time. However, they will not have it after January next. In fact, they may not have it now. I am not quite familiar with the arrangements reached between the Government and the private banks a few days ago in Canberra, but it is said that the private banks have agreed to the new proposals. 
Yes. We have been told that the cost of living in this country has not increased to any great degree. The sales tax was introduced by the Scullin Government to meet the extraordinary position caused by the extravagance of the Bruce-Page Govern ment. When it was introduced, it was only 2½ per cent., and it yielded a little more than £3,000,000 per annum. Under the Menzies and Fadden Governments, the sales tax was 15 per cent, and its contribution to the national revenue was £12,000,000 per annum. Now the sales tax on certain items is to be increased to 20 per cent. That affects everybody; very few items are exempt, and therefore the cost of living must increase. The sales tax is invariably passed on. Therefore it is no use saying that the people are not suffering from additional taxation impositions under war conditions. The Prices Commissioner, Professor Copland, has said that prices have risen by only 10 per cent., but I would point out that he deals only with certain commodities. A few months ago Professor Copland came to Hobart and addressed the Chamber of Commerce, of which I am a member, on the subject of price fixation. He spoke for well over an hour, and when he was about to conclude I said to him, " There is one commodity which the Prices Commissioner has not dealt with, and that is what is known as bank credit. It is created on the premises, the raw materials being pens, ink and paper. It is indispensible in modern business, yet the banks are permitted to make a profit of more than 100 per cent, on it." I realized that, as an economist, Professor Copland knew perfectly well that all costs go into prices and have to be recovered from prices. I have never seen a man so confused. I do not think he heard the case put in that way. Hesaid, " I think, senator, you will find that we shall obtain the money at a much lower rate of interest than you anticipate ". That had nothing to do with my question, but the  chairman  closed the meeting. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 

Figures have been quoted by every  speaker  on the Opposition side, and I also intend to present some figures in refutation of the suggestion by  Senator Spicer  that the cost of living has increased by only 10 per cent, since the outbreak of war. Indirect taxation is responsible for a far greater increase than that. Figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician show that in 
June, 1914, taxes in Australia amounted to £23,161,000, whilst in 1940, the total amount had increased to £144,397,000. All taxation increases the cost of living and lowers the standard of living. New Zealand has been referred to as a country which we should emulate, but there the average family pays £128 per annum in taxes or 41 per cent, of its total income. The result is that a workman in that dominion has to work for five months of the year merely to earn the money with which to pay his taxes. New Zealand has sold out to the private banks and is utilizing national credit to no greater degree than is Australia. That is why taxes are so heavy in that dominion. Taxes in New Zealand have increased from £5,000,000 in 1914 to £42,000,000 in 1941, an increase of 800 per cent. Indirect taxation acts like an anaesthetic for by that means taxes are taken from a man's wages without his being conscious of the fact. 
Interest bills absorb nearly the whole of the revenues of various ventures. The Sydney Water and Sewerage Board had an income in 1937 of £3,086,763, but interest and exchange costs amounted to £1,679,469. Whilst the various railway systems of Australia earned in fares and freights last year £12,500,000, their interest bills totalled £11,459,000. Is it surprising, therefore, that railway fares and freights are high? When the Commonwealth was established, six States federated. There are now seven States and the seventh is the State of poverty. That fact is borne out by the size df the national debt. I remarked earlier in my speech that the war  could  be financed without further taxes if full use were made of the national credit. I have cited many authorities in the past in order to show that the banks do not lend money. The greatest authorities point out that the banks are institutions for the creation of credit. The total sum held by the nine associated banks in Australia prior to the war was £14,000,000 worth of notes. The silver and copper eoin which they held was the total amount of their legal tender. The rest of the note issue was in the hands of the public for carrying on the retail business of the nation. In the first year of the war the associated banks bought war bonds and treasury-bills to the value of £67,000,000. Many financial reformers say that the powers of the banks to create credit are unlimited, but no such statement has ever been made by anybody having a right to pose as a reliable authority on monetary reform. The banks certainly do create credit. I have shown that in the first year of the war, when they had only £14,000,000 between them, they bought £67,000,000 worth of securities. How do we get into debt to the amount of hundreds of millions of pounds? There was no more currency in circulation in Australia at the end of the last war in 1918 than there was when the war started. The assertion by honorable senators opposite that we cannot carry on the present war unless the people continue to buy war bonds and war savings certificates is utterly untrue. 
I have not heard of it. The parties now in Opposition left the country in such a mess that the Labour party had to do something to fill the breach. 
It would be useless for me to reply to that interjection, because the honorable senator stated this afternoon that it was impossible to fill the breach. One of the greatest writers on world affairs,  Mr. J.  B. Priestly, stated - 
There is only one sphere of action in the more civilized countries to-day in which men find it necessary, when describing the ordinary operations there, to use metaphors and similes drawn from medieval brigandage, and that is the world of high finance. 
Thus I cannot help feeling, in roy innocence, that there must be something strangely anachronistic, crude, violent, barbaric, about that world; and that it is therefore time it was brought into the twentieth century, cleaned up and civilized. 

 Senator Spicer said that the bank interest rate had fallen. If the banks lent £100,000,000 last year at 5 per cent, interest and could create £200,000,000 this year, they could now afford to lend money at 2£ per cent., because it would cost them no more to create £200,000,000 than £100,000,000. The fact that money is created by the banks is beyond dispute.  Mr. Priestly  further said - 
A corporation is only a pipe-line arrangement for bringing together capital goods and labour; and since present taxes exceed profits, taxes are levied on goods and wages. Taxes crush the buying power of wages. In nearly every purchase you pay - 
A corporate income tax. 
An excess profits tax. 
A capital stock tax. 
A petrol tax. 
A manufacturers' excise tax. 
A personal income tax. 
A commodity licence tax. 
An occupational licence tax. 
An electricity tax. 
A communications tax; and 
An insurance tax. 
All excessive taxation is due entirely to the payment of interest. We should get down to the real cause of our financial trouble, which I have always claimed is the unscrupulous use of money power. The destiny of the people is in the hands of their governments. If we cannot place the blame for the present world conditions upon the various governments throughout the world, who can be held responsible for them? Incompetent and corrupt governments have brought the world to the state in which we find it to-day, and Australia must accept its share of the blame for those conditions. 
Blame is attachable to all governments. I maintain that Australia has never had a government worthy of its heritage. 
The present Government has not yet had an opportunity to prove itself, but I believe that it will prove worthy of Australia. Abraham Lincoln once said - 
The privilege of creating and issuing money is not only the supreme prerogative of government; but it is the government's greatest creative opportunity. 
Taxation is the cause of all the poverty and trouble in the world to-day. In 19.14 Australia's national debt was £4 19s. 6d.  per capita,  and to-day it is £25. That means that the sum paid in interest has increased by 600 per cent. The sooner the Opposition realizes that we cannot continue in this way, the better. I am accused of quibbling, but I have stated facts which have been supplied by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
I will not have my honesty questioned. A man who quibbles is not honest; and I claim to be an honest man. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr. President,  and shall be glad to follow your advice. I shall tell the Senate again how the banks create money. The  Encyclopedia Britannica,  14th edition, contains the following under the heading " Banking and Credit " :  - 
Banks create credit. It is a mistake to suppose that bank credit is created to any important extent by the payment of money into the banks. A loan made by a bank is a clear addition to the amount of money in the community. 
I direct attention also to the following statement by H. D. McLeod in his textbook  The Theory and Practice of Banking :  - 
The essential and distinctive feature of a bank and a banker is to create and issue credit payable on demand, and this credit is intended to be put into circulation and serve all the purposes ofmoney. 
The amounts which the banks lend to governments are created out of nothing, yet the taxpayers have to pay interest on the amounts so advanced. The governments will never pay the money back. Indeed, the banks do not want the money to be paid back, even if it were physically possible to do so. So long as thisbank racket continues, taxes will increase until eventually financial ruin will face Australia. In a book containing 1,400 pages there is set out in Latin, Italian, French and English what could have been stated more effectively in fourteen pages, because all that it explains is the banking system, and that should not take much explaining. McLeod, in his  Elements of Banking,  has also written - 
When it is said that a great London Joint Stock Bank has perhaps £25,000,000 of deposits, it is almost universally believed that it has £25,000,000 of actual money to " lend out ", as it is erroneously called . . . It is a complete and entire delusion. These " deposits " are not deposits in cash at all . . . They are nothing but  an  enormous superstructure of credit. 

 Mr. R. G. Hawtrey, Assistant UnderTreasurer to the British Treasury, in his 

 Trade Depression and the Way Out, said - 
When a bank lends it creates money out of nothing. 
After an exhaustive inquiry, the  Royal  Commission on Banking and Monetary Systems appointed by a previous Commonwealth government reported in paragraph 504 - 
The Commonwealth Bank . . . can make money available to governments and to others free of any charge. 
The following extract is from a publication by  Mr. J.  M. Keynes: - 
There can be no doubt that all deposits are created by the banks. 
That is interesting in view of the fact that he has advocated a system by which the people should be taxed on an income of only £2 a week. Instead of doing that, it would be better to create credit so that  a  person with an income of £100 a year could be left free from the necessity to pay taxes. In his book  Post-war  Bankingthe  Eight Honorable E. McKenna, chairman of the Midland Bank, wrote - 
The amount of money in existence varies only with the action of the banks in increasing nr diminishing deposits. We know how this is effected. Every bank loan and every bank purchase of securities creates a deposit, and every payment of a hank loan destroys a deposit. f also place before the .Senate the following extract from the writing by Professor Soddy, the eminent physicist of Oxford University: - fa it possible in these days of disbelief in physical miracles really to caricature institutions which pretend to lend money, and do not lond it, but create it? And when it is repaid them, de-create it? And who have achieved the physically impossible miracle thereby, not only of getting something for nothing, but also of getting perennial interest from it? 

 Mr. Hartley "Withers, in his publication  International  Finance,  stated - 
A credit in the Bank of England's books is regarded by the financial community as " cash ", and this pleasant fiction has given the bank the power of creating cash by a stroke nf the pen and to any extent that it pleases, subject only to its own view as to what is [u ndent and sound business. 
In July, 193S,  Branch Banking,  an English hankers' journal, stated - 
There is no more unprofitable subject under the sun than to argue any hanking or credit points, since there arc enough substantial n notations in existence to prove to the initiated that banks do create credit without restraint. 
On many occasions in this chamber, I have exposed the bank swindle and the collusion between previous governments and the private banks. For many years previous governments, possibly through ignorance, have connived at this swindling. 
I am stating a fact. If it is a reflection on previous governments, I cannot help it. 
It is a fact to this degree that when I. asked a question I was informed that the first war loan of £20,000,000 was to be raised through the agency of the Commonwealth Bank in conjunction with the private banks. That loan was not put on the market as was done with a subsequent loan of £30,000,000. When I asked how much of that sum passed through the Commonwealth Bank and how much through the private banks the previous Government refused to supply the information. However, the manager of the associated .banks " spilt the beans " when he said, speaking of the patriotism of the banks, " I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the whole of the £20,000,000 war loan was subscribed by the private banks ". That was not precisely the position, because the private banks subscribed only £14,000,000 of the £20,000,000 required. The Commonwealth had to make up the difference. The £14,000,000 which was subscribed by the private banks was created out of nothing; yet the Commonwealth pays  Z  per cent, interest on the amount. The interest represents £500,000 a year. 
Perhaps it is because the rate of interest is going down. Some British banks are paying dividends at the rate of 14 per cent., or as much as 1.6 per cent. That statement has been made by a reliable authority. During the last war the profits of some Australian banks went up to 15 per cent. 
The hanks can create as many millions of  pounds  as are required. It must be remembered that 2£ per cent, on a certain sum is equal to 5 per cent, on half of that amount. In December, 1937, Australia's national debt amounted to £1,262,911,649 Os. Id. One person in the community, who signed himself " Patriot ", was concerned about the magnitude of the debt, and accordingly he sent a Id. stamp to the then Treasurer with the object, as he said, of reducing the debt to a round figure, tinfortunately, his purpose was not achieved, because between the time that he saw in the newspaper the amount of the national debt and the time when he sent the Id. stamp to the then Treasurer, the national debt had increased at the rate of £1 13s. 4d. a second. The debt grows so quickly that it now amounts to £1,000,000 a week. It is still growing. Compound interest on that debt has got Australia into a deplorable state. Some persons in the community are forced to work five months in the year in order to pay their taxes. That is the position already when taxes have really only started. 
At the moment, I am trying to convince the Opposition. I have stated facts in this chamber for several years, but previous governments have not heeded them. 
Even if the honorable senator were to convince the Opposition now, he would be too late. 
What is inflation? 
I congratulate honorable senators opposite on their occupation of the treasury bench. I join with  Senator McLeay  in offering to render any assistance in my power, so long as the efforts of the Government are directed towards ensuring that this country shall maintain a full-time war effort in both men and money. I regret that the change of government occurred when it did, because the country lost the services of a number of men who had gained a great deal of administrative experience in a hard school. In many instances these men were just beginning to gather the fruits of their labour. I resent very much the statement made by  Senator Darcey  that the Labour Government found everything in a mess when it assumed office. I take great pride in saying, as did  Senator McBride  and others, that when the history of Australia's war effort is written, the people will appreciate what was done for Australia by the Lyons Government from the time of the Munich 
Pact until the death of  Mr. Lyons,  by the Menzies Government, and by the Fadden Government. Members of those Governments worked exceedingly hard in the interest of this country, and laid the foundations of a defence policy which has provided a wonderful bulwark for the defence of this country should we be attacked. Therefore I resent  Senator Darcey's  remark. 
The governments to which I have referred can take great pride in their financial programmes and also, as has been pointed out by  Senator Spicer,  in the fact that costs have been controlled and interest rates have actually decreased. That is a very great tribute to the work of those governments. Commodity prices in this country have risen to a lesser degree than in any other country because of the fact that at the outbreak of war, the then Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  realized the necessity for adopting a system of price control. That system was introduced as one of the first acts of the Menzies Government. The suggestion made by  Senator Darcey  and supported, by interjection, by some honorable senators opposite, that the Prices Commissioner, Professor  Copland, was prepared to do anything to keep his job, is unworthy of him. I have been in frequent contact with Professor Copland since he was placed in charge of the price-fixing machinery of this country, and I think that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane),  who is in charge of the department in which Professor Copland holds a position, will agree that he has done an extraordinarily good job in most difficult circumstances. It ill becomes honorable senators to make remarks of that kind about a public servant who is unable to defend himself. 
Professor Copland has given remarkably good service to this country. Although he was in no need of a job, he came forward and accepted one of the most thankless and difficult tasks that could he given to anyone. He has done his work very well indeed. 
As long as this Government carries on the defence "programme which has been outlined, and if possible intensifies it, it will receive our support and constructive criticism. I trust that the Government will be given better support than was given to the Administration of which I was a member, not so much in this chamber, but in the House of Representatives, especially during the last six months of its existence. I say quite frankly that despite the repeated statements that the Menzies and Fadden Governments were receiving wholehearted support, during the past six months every form of irritation was indulged in by the Opposition in order to secure a change of administration. 
The honorable senator says that we were " torpedoed ". I would point out to him. that when the previous Government did fall it was as tie result of the assassin's knife, and not by means of a majority vote recorded against it at the polls. The Government fell because of the greed for office of certain individuals and not because of its shortcomings. I regard it as a privilege to have been a member of the Government of this country during these critical years of war, and I believe that the three Prime Ministers whom I have mentioned, can be very proud of the work done by their respective Governments. I remember only too well the state of Australia's defence at the time of the Munich pact. Under the voluntary system our home defence forces were very small indeed, and very few militia units were at anything like full strength. Our soldiers numbered 35,000. 
That is so. It would have been impossible to muster that number when the men went into camp for a few days in each year. I assure honorable senators that the work of building up those forces was extremely difficult. Credit is due not only to the various governments concerned in that work, but also to the leading men of the various arms of the defence services. They had a colossal task to perform. In the earlier days they were hampered and handicapped by lack of finance, and they also had to counter a lack of enthusiasm among the people. That lack of enthusiasm was reflected in the attitude of various governments with the result that the services were starved. Then came the colossal task of building up the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, and expanding munitions production. A great deal of credit is also due to those capable men who came to the assistance of the Government; many of them in an honorary capacity. Criticism has been levelled against some of these gentlemen because they had been successful in private enterprise and it was suggested that that they came into munitions work in order to gain personal advantages. As the result of my personal contact with those men I formed an entirely different opinion of them. Many of them have thrown aside their private interests in order to give their valuable assistance to the Government, The3e are the men who were condemned by honorable senators opposite when they were in opposition. The present Government will find the services of those men very valuable, and I believe that it will be well advised to continue to avail itself of their assistance. 
The budget contains some of the prosposals embodied in the Fadden budget, but certain features that were of real merit have been dropped by the present Government, which, in my opinion, has not stood up to its responsibilities with regard to the financing of the war. In my opinion this emasculated Fadden budget is a cowardly and dishonest budget, because it does not tell the people what their actual financial responsibilities are. It is a dishonest budget, because, if the policy that the Prime Minister and other members of the Government are preaching throughout the country - 
I am not speaking in a personal sense, but entirely in a political sense. I know of no more suitable phrase in which to express my opinion of the budget, but out of respect to the wishes of honorable senators opposite, I withdraw the words. The budget will not provide the necessary finance that the Government requires, if it intends to carry out the programme undertaken by it, assuming that the appeal being made by the Prime Minister for the diversion of expenditure on nonessential goods to war expenditure is heeded. 
No. If the people are to cut out all luxury expenditure, how can the Government secure the additional revenue that it hopes to get by increased taxes, including increased sales tax, which to a large degree is imposed on luxury lines. There is only one way in which the result that the Prime Minister desires can be achieved and that is by compulsory savings and by the compulsory rationing of certain commodities. But will the people cease to purchase luxuries merely because the Prime Minister has appealed to them to do so voluntarily? I contend that the diversion of a certain percentage of the income of individuals to the war effort should not be left entirely to their whim or grace. I believe that a majority of the people will heed the Prime Minister's appeal, but we have reached the stage where everybody in the community must play his or her part, be it large or small, in relation to the financing of the war effort. A proposal of outstanding merit in the Fadden budget was that providing for compulsory savings. If everybody plays his part in the transference of expenditure on non-essentials to war expenditure, the burden on each member of the community will be lightened. 
Money is more plentiful in Australia now than it has been for generations, and family incomes are larger than they have ever been before. Therefore there should be a saving of the national income, not only for the purpose of financing the war, but also in order to make provision for post-war reconstruction. Although there is every indication that the war will continue for a long time, when it is over thousands of employees now engaged in munitions factories will be forced to find other employment, and at the same time we shall be faced with the problem of providing work for the members of our fighting services who will be returning from overseas. Will that not be a time when the benefit of compulsory savings and deferred pay would prove invaluable? We give to members of the fighting services 6s. a day and 2s. deferred pay, and one of the main reasons for the deferred pay is to provide a nest-egg which will be found useful to the men on their return from the war. Therefore I see no reason why civilians also should not be called upon to accept deferred pay. Under the Fadden budget it was proposed to pay the bank interest rate on civilian deferred pay, but the returned soldier gets no interest on his deferred pay. If there was one proposal of outstanding merit in the Fadden budget it was that relating to deferred pay for civilians, and I believe that we shall yet adopt that principle. 
I desire everybody to play hi3 part fairly in the war effort, and I believe that the time will come when everybody in the community will be asked by the Government of the day to subscribe some money for the financing of our war effort. It is idle for the Prime Minister to speak to the public in generalities by referring to the necessity for reduced expenditure on non-essentials ; he should be specific. The people are looking for a lead as to what they should be called upon to do with regard to the rationing of commodities. The only practical way in which the Government can carry out its policy of transferring funds from expenditure on non-essentials to war expenditure is by compulsory saving and compulsory rationing. I believe that we shall eventually reach that stage. 
The Assistant Minister is merely taking up a parrot cry. We did not do it because we had not sufficient members in the House of Representatives to do many of the things that the present Government can do if it wants to. The present Government has been guaranteed support from all sides of the House, whereas its predecessors had no such support. 
If the present Government is to retain office, it will have to do these things sooner or later. In any attempt to do the right thing in connexion with Australia's war effort it can rely on support which was denied to the previous Government. Another problem which the Government will have to face is that of providing reinforcements for the Australian Imperial Force overseas and for the other branches of the fighting services. Fortunately, the response to the appeal for men for the Empire Air Training Scheme has been excellent. Everyone in Australia is proud of the part that thi3 country is playing in the air defences of tha Empire, but I believe that we are reaching the position where we shall find that there is a serious shortage of man-power to supply necessary reinforcements to the men overseas and for the production of munitions at- home. I was glad to see that one of the first things the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  said he would do was to make a thorough investigation in regard to man-power. I believe that there are thousands of men now in exempt industries who could well be released for military service. 
The position is getting more difficult day by day as the. Postmaster-General  (Senator Ashley)  should know since he has been a member of the Cabinet for several weeks. 
The Government should comb many of the exempt industries. 
If the honorable senator will read the list he will see that there is wide scope for the release of men. In spite of the Government's natural objection to utilising the services of women, I believe that it will be necessary to use them in order to release men for defence purposes. In my opinion, no stone should be left unturned in order to ensure that adequate reinforcements are sent to our forces in the Middle East. 
Of course I can ; but I do not think that that position has been reached yet. It has been reached in some country areas, but in our cities the limit has not nearly been reached. An examination of the list of exempted occupations will reveal that there is ample scope for the release of a large number of men to join the  Australian Imperial Force and the Royal Australian Air Force. I regard the supply of reinforcements to our forces overseas as the most vital job Australia has to do. Honorable senators know my views in relation to military service. I am not opposed to the principle of conscription for military service overseas which has been adopted by New Zealand. Although we are proud of what Australia has done under the voluntary system, I am of the opinion that there are many merits in the compulsory system which are absent from the voluntary system. 
I am in favour of an all-in war effort. When a country is fighting for its existence, the Government should be able to say to any individual "We want your service, or what you have got in the interests of your country ". I say that without hesitation. 
When we have done what I have advocated we may be able to say that we have indeed put forward a whole-hearted war effort. 

 Senator Darcey said that he feared that his many dissertations on the subject of finance had failed to impress honorable senators now sitting hi opposition, but a. study of the budget reveals that he has also failed to impress members of his own party. When I contemplated, the reading of the Treasurer's budget speech, I had in mind  Senator Darcey's  repeated statement that, under a Labour Government, orthodox methods of finance would be set aside. I remembered, too, that on many occasions  Senator Brown  had indulged in flights of oratory in which he advocated the introduction of a new financial system. He, too, said that under a Labour Government, the existing financial system would be changed. Nevertheless, the first budget introduced by a Labour Government was largely along orthodox lines. Obviously, members of the Cabinet, When placed in a position of responsibility, saw things differently from the way that they saw them when sitting in opposition. Unfortunately, the proposals of the Fadden budget were not, carried into effect, particularly those which required every person in the community to accept his share of the financial responsibility for the prosecution of the war. 
The Government makes a great feature of the fact that it expects to effect a considerable saving compared with the Fadden Government's proposals. It claims to have found a way by which it will be possible to 3ave £80,000 in connexion with the Department of Information. That is the only economy it can make in a £325.000,000 budget.' I am interested to know in what direction the saving will be effected, and accordingly, T have placed a number of questions on the notice-paper. Having spent seven or eight months in control of the Department of Information, I do not know of any way in which that department can still give the same service to the country and yet enable a saving of £80,000 to be made. I am aware that the Department of Information has been one of the most abused of departments; it has been the " Aunt Sally " of persons both inside and outside Parliament. I say, however, that it contains many men who have done an extraordinarily good job, Many who criticize the department do not realize how much work it does foi other departments. The present Minister for Information  (,Senator Ashley)  will find, as I did, that if there is a "sticky" job to be done, the Department of Information will be asked to do it. I shall be glad to know whether the estimated saving of £80,000 will be made by a reduction of the estimates of the department itself, or whether that amount represents the saving that will be made in respect of work done for other departments. The Department of Information has done a tremendous volume of work for the service departments, such as all recruiting propaganda,, war loan publicity, commercial advertising, and so on. 
I wish to know whether the contemplated saving of £80,000 will be a direct saving in the Department of Information. I wish to know also what services will be affected. I have noticed that the honorable member for Barker  (Mr. Archie Cameron)  has suggested that the Department of Information should be abolished. I admit frankly that the department could be abolished, but I point out that if that were done, much of the work now performed by it would still have to be done by other departments. Soon after I took charge of the Department of Information, I discussed with my colleagues in the Cabinet and on the Advisory War Council, whether the department should continue. After consideration, both the Advisory War Council and the Cabinet decided that the department should continue to function. I think that the new Minister in charge of that department will find that much of the criticism levelled against it has been unfair. Moreover, much of the work done by it has not been given recognition, because it has been done indirectly. Other people have received the credit. Whatever may be done in an effort to save money, I urge the Minister no', to reduce the vote in relation to our activities in the United States of America, as was suggested in the press a few days ago. When the Australian News Bureau was first (established an New York, Australia was very little known to our cousins across the Pacific, ft has justified its existence in every way and has given Australia extraordinarily good publicity. 
The reduction of cable rates was brought about prior to  tha  advent of the present Government. Furthermore, the subsidy paid by the Commonwealth Government to the American Cable .Service was formulated long before the honorable senator ever dreamt that he would become Minister for Information. 
A complaint has been brought to my notice in relation to the management of the small arms factory at Lithgow. Unfortunately, we have had at Lithgow a continuation of minor industrial disputes and hold-ups which have been very irritating to the Department of Munitions and very costly to the Australian war effort. I had a call some time ago from a returned soldier who was by trade a 'fitter and turner. At the time,' he was not following his own trade, but he was anxious to secure work in one of the factories doing government war work. I submitted his name to the Minister for Munitions, and he was called up to report at Lithgow, where he was given a position as what is known as a section hand. He told me that all he did was to walk about doing absolutely nothing for several days. Me asked the foreman in charge to give him some practical work. He said that, in addition to section hands, there were also the recognized foremen overlooking the work for the ordinary operatives. These foremen are called charge hands. They walk about and give advice to machinists. He was asked whether he would like to be put on a bench. When bo asked' what he had to do, he was told to fill in the time as best he could. Seeing some pipe brackets lying about, he decided to go on making some more. He had to walk several hundred yards to get the piping, then take it somewhere else to be sawn, shift it. somewhere else to be threaded, and then take it to the driller* and welders and await their pleasure. He worked an eleven-hour shift and received over £11 a week. Prior to taking on that work, his wages were about £6 a week. Although it was a Godsend to him to get an additional £5 a week, he was so disgusted that, in spite of the fact that he could have done with the extra money, he resumed his old job at about £6 a week. This man, who is a good unionist, said that the union leaders have complete control of the factory and that the foremen are helpless. The operatives on the machines have no check whatsoever on the number of articles they turn out in a day. He says that one man simply walks around ali day making sure the fire extinguishers are on the wall. 
If the only contribution the honorable senator can make is to say that these conditions prevailed under other governments, then the outlook of honorable senators supporting the Government is hopeless. Whether the honorable senator likes it or not, I shall continue to bring matters such as this to the notice of the Government in the hope that something will be done to rectify them. I trust that the Parliament will be kept in session and that there will be no rush into recess in order to stifle discussion of important matters such as this. I am naturally gravely concerned to have a report of this kind from a conscientious returned soldier unionist who is not prepared to take money for which he cannot give an adequate return. I ask the Government to investigate the matter. If this state of affairs exists at Lithgow, or at any other munitions factory, it is a clear demonstration that we are not making our full war effort. 
I propose now to deal briefly with another matter which I had intended to discuss on the adjournment of the Senate,  to-night,  but which I think might more probably be discussed during this debate. 
I refer to an attack made by a member of the House of Representatives, the honorable member for Watson  (Mr. Falstein)  on the Director of Gun Ammunition,  Mr. Smith,  in the course of which serious charges were made of what virtually amounted to corruption. I do not know any of the circumstances surrounding the case mentioned by the honorable member for Watson. If he is correctly reported in the press, he said that the Director of Gun Ammunition so abused his position as to use the time, material and services of men doing Government work to build a horse float for his own private use, and that the cost of the construction of the float was charged to the Government as munitions work. 
The fact that these charges are to be inquired into by a joint committee does not necessarily mean that I should not discuss them further. I point out that if charges of that kind made against a man occupying a high executive position in the Department of Munitions cannot be substantiated, they should be withdrawn and an apology tendered. If the charges are proved, drastic action should be taken Immediately. If they are not proved, the same publicity that was given to them should be given to their rebuttal. If the charges cannot be substantiated, 1 suggest that the Prime Minister should rebuke those colleagues of his who are prone to defame prominent men who are doing their best to serve Australia in a very difficult time. I do not propose to discuss in detail at this stage the measures consequent on the budget as an opportunity will be afforded to do so on a later occasion. I merely say now that I trust that the Government will reconsider ite proposal to combine, the. incomes of husbands- and wives for the purpose of arriving at the rate of tax to be applied to both incomes. Such taxation is aimed specifically at those who are trying to be thrifty and ensure that their families do not become a charge upon the nation after their parents' decease. I remind the Government, that there, are many wives who have inherited property in their own right. There are others, who, by their own efforts, have entered one of the professions, but who, because they happen to marry, are to be called upon to pay a higher rata of tax on their earnings than their unmarried competitors. Such taxation is a relic of the dark ages. It is taking us back to the days when a wife was a mere chattel of her husband. It is not worthy of a modern Government. I trust that the Government will review this proposal because I feel sure that when it was first made its serious, implications were not fully appreciated. 
We naturally regret that, after all the undertakings given by the Prime Minister, by the Leader of the Senate and other Ministers, that they would put forward a full war effort, they have not stood up to their responsibilities by telling the people just what is and will be expected of them before the war is over. Rather have they sought the easy way and as the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives said : " They have one eye on the electorate rather than both eyes on the winning of the war ". 
I shall hand it to  Hansard.  The particulars contained in it are embodied in the speech which I have just delivered. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator James  McLachlan) adjourned. 
, - I wish to refer briefly to a speech which I delivered in the Senate &gt;n the 26th June last, which has given rise to some comment. I feel that I owe an explanation to a number of officers of the 18th Battalion, who served in the last war. During my speech on that occasion I clearly stated the reasons that prompted me to refer to this matter. I met a number of officers at the Dubbo Military Camp. They had been there for twelve months training a division preparatory to going overseas. They had done the necessary training with the men, including bivouac and long route marches, and like the men they were very fit. They had served in the last war. They stayed with the Army and had obtained commissions. They complained very bitterly to me that whilst the boys whom they had trained went to the war, including a number of those who had served with them in the last war, they themselves were denied the privilege of going overseas as soldiers. Like many other diggers they felt that they were physically fit and should have been given an opportunity to go along with the boys they had trained. I said that the officers who took them away and who had just come fresh from Duntroon had not been with the men during their training. They said that they prayed for the men but not for the officers. During a speech which lasted an hour and a half I said that I had had experience in the 18th Battalion where the colonel, the battalion major, another major and several subalterns had been cashiered for cowardice. I uttered those words. Apparently it was not a charge that was " put over " the last Australian Imperial Force. I would say that probably the military system considered that they lacked judgment; that they were inexperienced and could not size up a difficult situation. However, as the term was known among the diggers, they knew that when a fellow was discharged from the Army whilst the battalion was on service he had "gone up " for cowardice. I do not want that to go abroad because I understand that a battalion had approximately 26 officers, and as, 1 believe, the 18th Battalion was wiped out four times I assume that it had at least 100 officers. I knew many of them. I do not feel that I should mention some names and not mention all of them. But I knew officers in that battalion who were game and whom nothing could stop. I should not like them to think that the seven subalterns to whom I referred included any of them. Consequently I am bound to withdraw the word cowardice ". 
I do not intend to apologize. 
I was not present all the time. I went to the war when I was fifteen years of age and was returned to Australia owing to a gunshot wound when I was seventeen years of age. I left Australia in 1915 and came back in 1917. I was not at the war all the time. I have already told honorable senators that I spent a long time overseas. I spent my sixteenth birthday in France. I have nothing in my military record to be ashamed of. 
I am not ashamed of any of my statements. Somebody supplied an article which was published in  Smith's Weekly  on the 18th November last from which I take the following extracts :  - 
SENATOR AMOUR'S ATTACK ON 18th BATTALION OFFICERS. 
Australiahas been shocked by the recent statements of  Senator Amour,  claiming that nine officers of the 18th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force, including  Colonel Chapman, Major McDonald,  Lieutenant Pritchard, and six other lieutenants, had been cashiered for cowardice and sent home to Australia in disgrace. 
Captain John O'Donnell, an officer of the 18th, has written this answer to the  Senator, claiming  that the allegations are " cruel lies "- " First officer mentioned by the  Senator, who  shelters under Parliamentary privilege, is the late Lieutenant-Colonel A. E. Chapman, V.D., who was the original battalion commander. " Lieutenant-Colonel Chapman saw service in the South African War and commanded the 24th Infantry Regiment, Australian Military Forces, prior to being appointed to command the 18th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force, early in 1915. " He remained in command of the battalion during the action which lasted from August 22 to 29, 1915, and which is described in an official account published on  Gallipoli underdate September 3 in the following terms: - 
This gallant action adds 400 more acres  of  Turkish territory to the country occupied by ANZAC.The fighting during these operations was almost entirely hand-to-hand and of a very severe nature." 
I am sad  to  say that that action was admitted by everybody to be a blunder. Many Australians lost their lives in it; and we lost the 400 acres. The article continues -  " Official records show that of 750 members of the unit engaged in the action on August 22 there were 382 casualties, of whom one-half were killed. By August 29 there were very few of the battalion left, and it was withdrawn from the line to reserve. " Lieutenant-Colonel Chapman left the unit when it was withdrawn to reserve and subsequently returned to Australia, where he was allowed to resign his appointment  on  December 14, 1915. "He was subsequently issued with the 1914-15 Star, General Service and Victory medals, ample proof that he was not cashiered." 
Lieutenant-Colonel Chapman was allowed to resign. Because he was allowed to resign and because he was issued with certain medals I am bound to say that I cannot substantiate my statement, because I do not know what the decision of the Military Board of that time was. It appears that the board was prepared to give those medals to anybody at all. I do not want to labour the matter. However, I emphasize that many of the officers of that battalion were never in doubt. They were gallant men, like the members of the battalion who did a good job. I repeat that I cast no aspersion whatever on them. I cast no aspersion on Pritchard. He was a game man. He should never have been sent toFrance. He had been seriously wounded and his nerves were shattered. For that reason I do not think that Pritchard was a. coward. He was unable to go on and there was nothing against him for that. That is how I feel about it. I am not concerned about Chapman. I have seen men shot and wounded and have spent many nights attending to them. When I thought of that, and of the gallant men who went overseas, I felt very sad about them. I would never have mentioned the matter in ordinary circumstances. It just crossed my mind when I was thinking of the diggers of the last war who could be serving in this war, and who want to go to this war but have been denied that right and privilege. I hope that the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  will take steps to ensure that those men who served in the last war and who to-day enjoy health and strength and prove themselves to be physically fit by continuous training in military camps will have a chance to go to this war. I want nothing more than that. I believe that such men would be an inspiration to our younger soldiers under them and would command their respect because of the confidence which they would create in view of their previous experience under fire. That is my contention regarding the matter. If 1 have offended some officers of the battalion who feel that I have cast some aspersion on them I shall withdraw my statement. I do not want to offend anybody, but I am not at all in sympathy with Chapman. 
This afternoon the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice,  the following question: - 
In view of the oft-reported serious shortage of coal stocks in Victoria and South Australia, will the Minister advise what steps, if any, have been or are being taken by the Government to step up the production of coal? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has now supplied the following answer :  - 
The necessity for urgently building up stocks of coal in Victoria and South Australia  is  realized, and the Prime Minister has recently directed that everything possible be done to quickly improve the position. The Coal Commissioner has been requested to take action in collaboration with the Department of Commerce, which controls shipping, to ensure that effect is given to the Prime Minister's wishes. It is expected that stocks in Victoria will have reached a satisfactory level by the end of December. The position is developing satisfactorily in South Australia, and the honorable senator may be assured that the matter of the supply of coal to these States will continue to receive our close attention. 
I bring to the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development the urgent  necessity for acting upon the recommendations made in an interim report presented recently by the Joint 'Committee on Rural Industries in connexion with the building of flax mills. The committee urged the Government to take, immediate steps to ensure that flax mills would be constructed and machinery installed for the processing of the coming season's crop. Honorable senators might not realize that the area in production this season is 60,000 acres as compared with 20,000 acres sown last season. The last season was bad whereas this season promises to be unusually good. Should that prove to be the case approximately £500,000 will hare to be provided in order to pay for the raw material alone, whilst approximately £1,000,000 will be required for the processing of that raw material. I now inform the Senate that in some areas the mills are not yet ready. The Flax Production Committee has had ample time in which to get the mills ready to handle the coming crop; but it seems that it is falling down on its job. If that is the case the Minister should, take action immediately in order to ensure that the mills are ready to handle the coming crop. 
I now inform honorable senators that at one particular place the committee has just acquired the land on which the mills are to be erected. I did not intend to go into details, but evidence has been given before the Joint Committee on Rural Industries that the mills must be ready by the end of December at the latest, in order to be able to handle the coming season's crop. If the committee has just acquired land on which to erect some of the mills this Government will require to act with greater speed than either the previous Government or the board has acted in the past. If the mills are not ready it will mean double, and triple, handling and stacking the flax in the rain. Furthermore, a demand will be made on labour for the construction of the mills in the middle of the harvesting when every available man will be required to handle the crop. I have heard much in this chamber to-day about our man-power problem. That problem in many instances is already upon us, and will become more serious in the future. All of us should realize the seriousness of the delay which will be caused if these mills are not built immediately and the necessary machinery installed in time to handle the coming crop. I hope that my remarks will be conveyed to the Minister for Supply and Development  (Mr. Beasley),  and that they will be given immediate attention, not merely because I ask that that the mills be constructed, but also because flax fibre is urgently needed in our war effort. 
.- I desire to draw attention to the dissatisfaction of rifle club members in regard to the decision to withdraw their private rifles and issue them to other units. No objection is taken to the Government purchasing rifles from  owners  who have enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force or the Royal Australian Air Force, but when rifle club members have joined the Volunteer Defence Corps, now termed the Home Guard, it is contended that they should be allowed to retain their rifles. About 8,000 men have joined the Volunteer Defence Corps. These men are expert shots. They have trained themselves to become snipers, a role which, some day, the Volunteer Defence Corps may be called upon to play. About 30 per cent, of the 50,000 members of the Volunteer Defence Corps have never handled a rifle. Here is a golden opportunity for the military authorities to utilize the services of these specialists. Instead, the Government proposes to buy back these rifles and re-adjust them for use by other branches of the service. In each British Army battalion there is a section of sniping specialists armed with short rifles fitted with aperture sights. Rifle club members are identical with these sections, yet the Commonwealth Army authorities have recommended that the rifles be withdrawn from our expert snipers and handed over to others, who have still to learn to shoot straight. The rifle apparently is not considered an obsolete weapon or the Small 
Arms Factory at Lithgow would not he turning out 1,000 a week. I shall not accept the statement that there is a shortage of rifles; it is the distribution which is at fault. I respectfully ask that the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  look into this matter more closely. Here are men who, in peace time, at little expense to the country, have qualified themselves for the task that they may be called upon to undertake. Instead of encouraging them to join the Volunteer Defence Corps the military authorities are discouraging them. Under the defence plans prepared in pre-war days, rifle club members were officially reservists, and were sworn in as such, but as this war progressed, for various reasons, the scheme never matured. Hundreds enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force, hundreds were called up for compulsory service and are now on the active list of Militia units, others again were listed in reserved occupations. Prior to the formation of the Volunteer Defence  Corps many thousands of rifle club members were only too anxious to continue in the role of reservists, keeping themselves in practice and giving instruction in local centres to scores of young and middleaged men who hitherto took no interest in defence. Suddenly, all this patriotic activity ceased, and rifle clubs were put in cold storage because  no  ammunition was available. That is the position to-day, though millions of rounds are turned out weekly in our small arms ammunition factories. Seeing no prospect of serving their country as members of rifle clubs, about 8,000 linked up with the Volunteer Defence Corps. Imagine their disappointment when, instead of taking their own rifles with them, they were told that they could not do so, but must sell their rifles - specially prepared for sniping - to the Government. The whole business shows a short-sighted policy. The Volunteer Defence Corps is hampered in its training, and the enthusiasm of thousands of patriotic citizens dampened. It may be argued that the output of small arms ammunition has not yet reached the maximum required for overseas requirements and a general reserve within the Commonwealth. I am not in a position to say what these requirements are, but I do know that the amount of ammunition allotted to units of our Home Defence Army for training in the use of the Vickers machine gun, Lewis gun, Bren gun, and the rifle is totally inadequate. I shudder to think what would happen if our Militia Forces were called into action with a half-baked knowledge of the weapons with which they are armed. Is there no way of speeding up the manufacture of not only small-arm ammunition, hut also rifles. I hope that the Minister for the Army will take a stand in this matter and remove the suspicion that our Australian Army gets only what is left over. Our Army, including the Voluntary Defence Corps, must be efficient, otherwise our defence is only a sham. 
Lest the interjection which I made when  Senator Aylett  was speaking be misunderstood, I should like to explain that - 1 share the honorable senator's anxiety in regard to the erection of flax mills. In its interim report, the Joint Committee on Rural Industries drew the attention of the Minister for Supply and Development  (Mr. Beasley)  to this matter, and all I wished to imply by my interjection was that the matter had been brought to the notice of the Flax Production Committee, whose responsibility it is to see that these mills are fully equipped to handle the forthcoming crop, which promises to be very heavy, and that the committee gave an assurance that the mills would be in readiness for the forthcoming crop. I agree that this matter should be brought to the notice of the Minister again.- No doubt, the Minister, in turn, will refer it back to the Flax Production Committee, which, I feel sure, will give the same assurance to the Minister as it gave to the Joint Committee on Rural Industries a few weeks ago. 
I do not wish my interjection to be misunderstood. I am not unmindful of the colossal task which confronts the Flax 
Production Committee, and all I say is that it gave an assurance that the equipment would be ready to handle the 1940-41 crop. 
Motion -  by leave  - temporarily withdrawn. 
.- On the 18th September last, a formal motion for the adjournment of the Senate was moved by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Ashley)  in order to discuss an application by  Mr. D.  A. Craig and others for permission to establish a refinery for the treatment of crude oil, petrol, and bitumen. Serious objection was taken at that time by members of the then Opposition to the fact that the application had been rejected by the Capital Issues Advisory Board. Can the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  inform me whether that application has been renewed, and whether it has been granted by the Government? 
.- in  reply  - No further application has been been made by  Mr. Craig.  The remarks of  Senator Brand  with regard to rifle clubs will be brought to the notice of the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde). 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister state whether the Government, in order to respond to the Prime Minister's appeal for a reduction of expenditure on nonessentials, forgo this year the (usual custom adopted by Ministers and heads of Government departments in sending out thousands of Christmas cards? Will the Government also make an appeal to the State Governments, municipalities and private citizens to follow this lead, and utilize the money so saved in purchasing war savings certificates ? Will the Minister also appeal to citizens to give war savings certificates as Christmas presents ? 
That is entirely a matter for the individuals to whom the honorable senator has referred, and in my opinion the questions cannot properly be directed to the Government. 
SenatorFoll. - I think that they are proper questions. 
-I object to any discussion of my reply. 
The honorable senator is not entitled to comment on the Minister's reply. 
In view of the Prime Minister's appeal to the public to curtail expenditure on non-essentials in order that money may be diverted to the war effort, can the Leader of the Senate say whether the Government intends to set out at an early date what it regards as non-essential expenditure? 
That matter is now receiving the serious consideration of the Government. 
Will the Leader of the Senate state to what degree, if any,  Mr. W.  C. Taylor, who was appointed by the Labour Government yesterday to the vacancy on the Commonwealth Bank Board, has been actively  engaged in agriculture, commerce, finance or industry? To what degree, if any, is he now actively engaged in any of those pursuits ? 
The question is one which concerns the Government and the Government only. 

 - Mr. Taylor, unlike previous appointees to the board, has no entangling business alliances of any kind whatever. 
The appointment has been made, and the incident is closed. 
He could not discuss details of his appointment or  Mb  attitude to current financial problems until he had conferred with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  and the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley).  He expected to do this within a few days. 
Further, has the Minister's attention been drawn to' the following statement reported to have been made by  Mr. Taylor 
I was more or leas bred in the Labour  movement,  and have been a  member  of the Australian Labour party for seventeen years. 
In view of the fact that  Mr. Taylor  does  not come  within the classes set out in the act - agriculture, commerce, finance and industry - does the Leader of the Senate think that he is better qualified to perform the very important national duty of assisting to control Australia's finances during the difficult days that lie ahead, because of his active association with the Labour party as a campaign director? 
The appointment has been made, and the incident is closed. 
Is the Lender of the Senate aware that the last previous appointment to the Commonwealth Bank Board was made because the person appointed had certain social connexions and was a good polo player? 
Is it the intention of the Government to amend the Commonwealth - Bank Act so that  Mr. Taylor's  appointment to the board will be valid? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Before filling the vacancy on the Commonwealth Bank Board, will the Government take into consideration a recommendation contained in the report of the Royal Commission on Banking that on account of the special disabilities of Western Australia a resident of that State should be appointed to the board f 
Is it the intention of the Government, as suggested in the morning press, to appoint  Mr. W.  C. Taylor, a Sydney solicitor, to the vacancy on the Commonwealth Bank Board! 
If so, does the Government believe that the appointment of a prominent Labour party executive officer to an important public position is in the best interests of the nation? 
In view of the fact that the retiring member of the board is representative of country interests, will that aspect be taken into consideration by the Government when the appointment is being made? 
Will the Minister for Trade and Customs state whether it is a fact that the retail prices of chocolates and other confectionery have been substantially increased under war conditions? Have the increases been approved by the Prices Commissioner, and, in any case, will the Minister have the increased prices reviewed in the same commendable way that increased tobacco and beer prices are being reviewed? 
I am not aware of the increases mentioned by the honorable senator, as that matter comes within the province of the Prices Commissioner. The only power I have, is that of exercising a veto over decisions of the Commissioner in fixing prices. I shall ask for a report from the Commissioner, and get whatever information I can from him on the matter. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Trade and Customs been drawn tothe statement that the excise duty on matches compels a retailer to lose 8d. a gross on every gross of matches he sells? 
That information has been conveyed to me by letter from a certain source. The cost of matches, as honorable senators are aware, has been increased by 2s. a gross under the recent increased excise duties. The Prices Commissioner is now considering the matter and an early decision is anticipated. 
Can the Assistant Minister for Commerce say whether the Government has appointed three more wheat-growers to the Australian Wheat Board and chosen them from residents of Victoria and New South Wales ? Is it the intention of the Government to appoint further representatives of the growers from South Australia and Western Australia? Will the Government similarly increase the representation of wool-growers on the Central Wool Committee, and if not, why not? 
The Government has appointed three additional wheatgrowers' representatives from Victoria and New South Wales to the Australian Wheat Board. I have called for a panel of three names from the Wheat-growers Union, which is not at present represented on the Australian Wheat Board, in order that the representation of growers on that body may be in conformity with the Government's policy. 
SenatorFRASER. - Yes. When the panel of names has been submitted to the Minister for Commerce, a member of the Wheat-growers Union will be appointed to the board. With respect to boards generally, the Government has not yet had time to review appointments already made, or to reconstitute such boards in accordance with its policy that the growers shall have additional representation thereon. 
The question of additional representation of wool-growers on the Central Wool Committee is under consideration. 
askedthe PostmasterGeneral,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the present cost of airmail correspondence from' the Middle East to Australia is 9d. per½ oz.? 
Is it a fact that air mail is practically the only way in which troops abroad can be assured that letters posted will be received at  home  in a reasonable time? 
Will the Government arrange for a substantial reduction in air-mail rates for members of the fighting services serving overseas? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
Yes, as regards letters. 
While, due to war conditions, the time taken in the transportation of mails from the Middle East to Australia is greater than under normal circumstances, every opportunity to despatchmails is availed of and at present the shipping service is reasonably satisfactory for the conveyance of the surface mails. 
The present charge of 9d. for½oz. letter represents a reduction of 50 per cent, in the normal rate. In addition, members of the forces are able to communicate to Australia by means of air-mail letter-cards, the rate on which is only 3d. It will therefore be seen that substantial reductions in air-mail rates have already been granted to the members of the forces overseas. 
asked the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state whether the proposed annual saving of £80,000 per annum in the votes of his department is in relation to expenditure incurred on behalf of other departments such as advertising for the service departments and the Departments of Commerce and Labour and National Service, or does it represent a definite cut of £80,000 per annum in the Information Department's own services? 
Will the Minister give details of what services are affected by this reduction and what employees are affected? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
.  The proposed reduction in the Estimates for the Department of Information include advertising incurred on 'behalf of the Department of Labour and National Service. Approximately £30,000 is to be saved within the Department of Information on its own services. 
The reduction will be spread as evenly as possible over all the services of the Department of Information, but at present it is not possible to say what services will be curtailed, and, consequently, what staff reduction is necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that large sums of money are being spent in Australia to-day in a search for oil - notably in Queensland and Western Australia? 
Has the Treasurer inquired into the effect the new taxation proposals outlined in the budget, regarding the non-allowance as a deduction of money spent in prospecting, will have on the search for oil and minerals in Australia? 
Will the Treasurer give further consideration to thismatter before proceeding on the lines suggested? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
The Treasurer has no knowledge of the actual amounts of money being so spent, but it is understood that various amounts are being so expended. 
Yes. 
The matter of the withdrawal of the income tax concession for calls paid by taxpayers on shares in mining companies and companies mining for oil was fully considered by the Government before its taxation proposals were framed. The decision has been reviewed and confirmed. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that representations have been made to the Prime Minister from representative bodies in the north of Queensland pointing out the industrial stagnation that has taken place there and the drift of manpower to the south? 
In view of the grave danger to Australia from the north, would it not be a strategical error to allow this portion of Australia to be depopulated ? 
What steps (if any) does the Government propose to take to stop this industrial stagnation and drift of man-power from the north? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  - 
Representations in connexion with this matter were made to the previous Governments and were considered by them. The Premier of Queensland recently communicated with me, and the matter was also investigated by the Man-power and Resources Survey Committee. The Government will review the position in the light of the further representations made and the recommendations of the committee. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
In view of his declared intention to effect, at an early date, the placing in Canberra of all Government departments, what steps does the Minister propose to take to bring this about? 
How many public servants comprise the central administrations of the following departments :  - 
Who is the permanent head of the Department of Home Security? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
My declaration was that the headquarters of all Commonwealth departments, other than fighting Services, Munitions and Supply, would be transferred from Melbourne to Canberra as soon as possible, and that I would do everything 1 could with the funds and accommodation available, to bring them to Canberra at the earliest possible date.  2.  (a) 13; (b) 105, comprising five permanent officers on loan from other Commonwealth departments,96 temporary employees, and 4 honorary assistants (ex-senior Commonwealth public servants) ; (c) 14. 

 Mr. F. G. Shedden. 
Before addressing myself to the motion before the chair I take this opportunity to congratulate the members of the Government on their occupation of office. I trust that it will not be long before we ha ve another change of government. I mean that now that the members of the present Ministry have taken over responsibility of managing this country and have realized the seriousness of the position that confronts it, I trust that we shall get what we should have had long ago, namely, a national government. The revised budget is somewhat unique in two respects. In the first place, it demands from the public of Australia a larger sum of money than has ever been demanded before. Secondly, it was prepared by a party the spokesmen of which have told us in and out of season that greater use should be made of the national credit, and that if national credit were properly handled - and by that I take it they meant handled by themselves - it would provide the necessary funds with which to finance our war effort. On examination of the papers before us, however, we find that this budget follows very much the same lines as its predecessors. That may be due to the fact that since honorable senators opposite have been made aware of the actual financial position, they have realized that a wide departure from orthodox practice is impossible. Or are we to believe that their propaganda regarding the greater use of national credit was simply a bait for the public? We shall have to leave that question to the decision of the people. The revised budget is also unique in that it follows so closely on the heels of its predecessor. There is an old saying that comparisons are odious. That is perfectly true, but in this case I think it permissible to compare the budget now before us with that which was brought down by the Fadden Government. The Fadden budget was rejected, not by the people of this country , not by any political party, but because of the political manoeuvrings of some persons whose inordinate ambition for notoriety is far in excess of their ability to rebuild on the ruins of their destruction. 
They had no party leaders. Through the press and from the public platform almost daily appeals are made by the Government for an all-in war effort; but apparently they are, to a great degree, falling on deaf ears. I have no desire to discourage those people who are prepared to sacrifice almost everything in order to assist their country in its hour of need. Unfortunately, however, there are too many others who are storing up treasures for themselves and making exorbitant profits out of the war. I believe that members of this National Parliament have a higher function to perform than to make appeals through the press and on the public platform for greater efforts on the part of the people. When we ask for an all-in war effort and having the power to ensure that it is brought about we have the right to expect that measures will be introduced to ensure that the burden of conducting the war is borne equitably by every member of the community. The people look to us to give them a lead in that direction. We hear a good deal these days about equality of sacrifice. I agree that at times it is difficult to give a definition of the much-used phrase " equality of sacrifice ". We use the word " freedom " every time we allude to the titanic struggle that is taking place on the other side of the world. What is freedom? There is no freedom for a slave or  for a dead man. Therefore we are fighting for life itself, and life has the same value to the poor unfortunate who does not know where he is to get his next meal as it has to the millionaire. Why the budget before us should almost completely exempt about 75 per cent, of the people from bearing their full share of the responsibility for financing the war, I am at a loss to understand. Because of the fact that the Government has been in office for only a very limited period, we are prepared to make allowances in criticizing its present budget proposals. It has promised that almost in the immediate future it will announce extensions of its programme. When it does so, I sincerely trust that it will correct some of the errors which it has already committed so early in its term of office. Compared with the Fadden budget, this budget will impose much heavier demands on certain classes of taxpayers; first, because under it the taxes on lower incomes proposed by the Fadden Government will be transferred to the higher incomes, and, secondly, because the Government, is increasing expenditure. This budget can be truthfully described as a class budget. In our present difficult circumstances the Government, irrespective of party, must explore every possible avenue of raising revenue in order to meet its increasing commitments. Consequently, it is inevitable that budgets introduced at this period must contain certain innovations so far as methods of taxation are concerned. For instance, the Fadden budget included proposals for the raising of compulsory loans or post-war credits. That was a most desirable innovation, because in that way we should have been enabled to obtain a substantial proportion of our financial requirements for the prosecution of the war, and, at the same time, provide a fund for the purposes of post-war construction. By raising that proportion of revenue by taxation instead of by way of compulsory loans, we shall dry up our capital considerably, because it is evident that the source from which we have obtained the hulk of our revenue by voluntary means in the past is the higher incomes. Under this budget those incomes are to be taxed most heavily, but, at the same time, persons on the lower ranges of income are to be permitted to evade their fair responsibility in this respect. It is absolutely ludicrous for the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  to think that he can gull the public in this way, or that he can obtain by way of voluntary contributions the funds which he expects to raise in that way from persons on the lower levels of income. Compulsory loans would also serve a further useful purpose insofar as that method of raising war finance would tend to remove the injustice under which a taxpayer residing in one State must pay considerably more than a taxpayer residing in another State, or vice versa. Honorable senators opposite profess that the basic principle of Labour's policy is equality. If that be so, why should a resident of one State be compelled to pay considerably more in taxes than his neighbour in an adjoining State? Honorable senators opposite contend that arbitration awards should operate on a Commonwealthwide basis in order that all men shall be treated alike. If that be so, why does this Government ask a resident in one State to pay more in taxes than another person simply because they live in different States ? Compulsory loans are bound to come, and the sooner they are introduced the better. They would render unnecessary much of the legislation which, apparently, the Government contemplates introducing in order to curtail public spending. Any money raised by way of compulsory loans would be so much less available to the public to spend on sports and amusements and in many unnecessary directions. Under this budget the Government also proposes to open up two new avenues of taxation. Although the amounts to be raised by this means are not very large, each method is open to criticism. I refer to the proposed alteration with respect to the incomes of married persons and gift imposts. The former will operate in this way : The "taxable income of a husband and a wife will be taxed at the rate applicable to the amount of their combined incomes. If that he just in one instance, why should not the same method be applied in respect of persons who are on Ohe lower ranges of income. Take, for instance, a husband and wife whose individual incomes do not come within the taxable field,  but whose combined income would do so. Under this 'budget, those incomes are to escape the proposed tax. That, I submit, is unjust, particularly as under the present conditions of war many married women are earning incomes in employment. There must be a great number of instances in which the income of a husband escapes tax simply because of the statutory deduction of £50 allowed in respect of his wife. At the same time, his wife may also be earning a fair income but not sufficient to bring her into the taxable field. I submit that in such instances, it would be just to combine such incomes for the purpose of levying this tax. In any case, if this method of taxation is to be applied to any section of married people it should apply to all sections of married people. 
I shall postpone my criticism of the principles of the proposed imposts on gifts until the relevant bill comes before us for consideration. However, two or three anomalies are apparent in that method of taxation. In dealing with taxation generally we should look not only to the present; it is imperative that we look also to the future. We hope that we shall have an opportunity to consider other budgets in the future. If the Government over-taxes higher incomes and company profits as this budget proposes, it will dry up the sources from which future revenue must he drawn. In that case I do not know where we shall laud ourselves. The proposed company tax will be almost unbearable. The Government proposes to take by way of tax all company profits over 4 per cent., whereas the present limit is 8 per cent. In this way, it will practically dry up that source of future revenue. At the same time, it will tend to destroy in the individual, the incentive to greater enterprise. The Government's company tax proposals are absurd. First, the company is taxed ; and, secondly, the shareholders are taxed. Now the Government intends to impose a third tax, an excess profits tax, in order to grab anything that might be left. The Government would have been far wiser to reduce the limit of company profits by 2 per cent, instead of 4 per cent. The lesser reduction, in itself, would have been bad enough ; but the Government's present proposal- will be almost unbearable. The Government also proposes to increase the rate of sales tax. That tax, of course, is not an innovation; but any increase of the rate of that tax by a Labour government is an innovation. I have been a member of this chamber for many years, and on each occasion on which a sales tax bill has been considered by honorable senators in that period, members of the present Government when in opposition, condemned the sales tax as being most iniquitous. 
The war had already broken out when bills imposing additional sales tax were before this chamber. I shall read to the Senate several extracts from  Hansard  of November and December of last year. Referring to the sales tax  Senator Brown  is reported on page 933 to have said - 
I look upon the sales tax as a tax that has caused more trouble than it is worth to the business community. 
If that was the honorable senator's opinion, why does this Labour Government propose to further increase the sales tax? On page 937 of the same issue the following statement is attributed to  Senator Aylett:  - 
I regret the Government has not found means of obtaining additional revenue without increasing the obnoxious sales tax which for many years has placed a heavy burden on the people. 
Yet the sales tax is still operative. On page 939,  Senator Cameron  is reported as follows: - 
The object of this tax is not only to obtain additional money for the purposes of war but also to withhold commodities from those who are greatly in need of them. 
Does the honorable senator still wish to see those people starve, or has he changed his opinion? I believe that he has. On page 940, "the same honorable senator said - 
Why then is this tax imposed? The only conclusion I can come to - I should be glad if I could be shown to be wrong - is that the tax is designed to make it possible for those who invest their capital to continue to profit from war-time industries. 
I realize that  Senator Cameron  does not wish any one to profit from war-time industries, but apparently somebody has shown the honorable senator that he was wrong about the sales tax. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLANYes, but five members of this chamber, including  Senator Cameron,  who opposed the tax, are now Ministers, and should have some voice in the policy of the Government. It is interesting to note what was said on that occasion by the then Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Collings)  who, until now, has always become very warm under the collar when dealing with the sales tax. The honorable senator after explaining how this unjust and iniquitous sales tax ground down the working classes and. did not give them a chance to live decently, said - 
So far us honorable senators opposite are concerned these people should be satisfied with corduroy pants instead of tweeds, and flannelette underclothing instead of silk. If that is the Government policy let them proceed with it. But provided the people do not revolt in the meantime, it will not belong; before they are reduced to the standard of the loincloth and 11 few grains of rice. 
I ask the honorable senator who is now a Minister, which way are we heading to-day? Arewe heading for revolt or for the " loincloth and a few grains of rice"? All budgets must be properly balanced; the expenditure side is just as important as the revenue side. A. penny saved is a penny earned. Whilst the taxpayers may be, and no doubt are, willing to contribute to war funds, they are entitled to an assurance that their contributions will be judiciously and carefully handled. This budget does not encourage that belief. People expect 100 per cent. of the money which they pay into war funds to be used in our war effort, and not expended on unnecessary articles. Unpalatable as it may be, we must realize that subscriptions to voluntary loans are falling off considerably, not by hundreds or by thousands of pounds, but by millions of pounds every few months, and that sales of war savings certificates are being reduced at almost the same rate. Undoubtedly, to some degree, the decline is due to the attitude "let the other fellow do it", but it is also due to the fact - I do not blame the present Government for this because it has been in office only for a short period - that people believe that there could be stricter control of expenditure. We have many small lenders, but they are not necessarily shallow thinkers, and when a man wishes to put £5 or £10 into a war loan, he likes to be sure that the money will (be expended on the purposes for which it was raised. In many cases, the people who purchase war bonds and war savings certificates have relatives, sons, or brothers in the fighting forces, and they like to think that the money which they contribute will be used to the best advantage. They make their contribution's to provide adequate equipment and war materials for the members of our fighting forces in other parts of the world, and not to give rises of 5s., 6s. or 7s. a week to munitions workers, who, in many cases, are in receipt of a higher remuneration and enjoy a better standard of living than the persons making the subscriptions. Such expenditure is extravagant, and I trust that the Government will investigate it thoroughly. I am not speaking in this strain merely because honorable senators opposite are now in control of the treasury bench ; I should have spoken similarly had the previous Government continued in office. There has been too much extravagance in government departments. I realize the magnitude of the task with whichwe are confronted. It is inevitable that leakages will occur, but in the past, leakages have been too frequent and too big. A considerable saving could be made in. many directions. Consider, for instance, the use of petrol. We have been told that the petrol rationing is necessary because it is an essential war commodity. We believe that, and we realize that there may be a time when adequate supplies of petrol may be a big factor in our own protection. Yet today petrol is being used by the military authorities as freely as water. We see military cars and lorries running all over the countryside, in many instances on roads which are parallel to railway lines. Hundreds of thousands of gallons of petrol are used unnecessarily in that way. The Government should also consider the use of petrol by subsidized air lines, many of which traverse routes that are adequately served by railways. Undoubtedly, some air lines must be kept in operation, but there are others, carrying only a few passengers, and receiving substantial subsidies from the Government, which compete with existing rail services. Our air lines use 3,000,000 gallons of petrol per annum. I maintain that a considerable portion of that quantity could be saved, and I hope that the Government will give the matter early attention. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The fifteen or twenty passengers carried by aeroplanes on each trip would not make much difference to train bookings. It is ridiculous to use aeroplanes to  carry only a few passengers thousands of miles when another service is available. 
An increase of invalid and old-age pensions is unwarranted at the present juncture, when the country is so badly in need of money. Pensions should not be raised beyond the living unit provided for in the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. This is a time for sacrifices, and many of the pensioners would have been quite satisfied to continue at the old rate. Many of them have relatives among our fighting forces overseas, and they fully realize the seriousness of the financial situation. There is no country in the world where the old-age pensioners have been better treated than in Australia. They realize that fact, and are grateful for it. Yet the pension has been increased considerably. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Members of the Opposition have as much of the milk of human kindness in their make-up as have honorable senators opposite. The invalid and old-age pension was originally introduced by a nonLabour government. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.When introduced in 1909 the pension was fixed at 10s. a week. The object was not to provide the pensioner with a living, but to assist him financially. Since then Mie pension has been increased eight times Hnd always by a non-Labour government. On one occasion the pension was reduced, but that was not done by a Liberal government. The 335,681 invalid and old-age pensioners in Australia will receive this year £19,565,000 . The wheatfarmers of Australia number 67,900, and if we allow for a farmer, his wife, one child, and one employee, we may take it that his household consists of four persons. If we multiply 67,900 by four Ave  get practically the same total as the number of invalid and old-age pensioners. The Government proposes to finance the next wheat harvest. It has agreed to finance 14.0,000,000 bushels at 3s. lOd. a bushel, which means about 3s. a bushel to the farmer. The value of that wheat is £21,000,000. Therefore the pensioners are to receive almost as rauch as the value of the wheat crop of Australia. 
I have not denied that they are worthy of it, but I have never placed an upset price on their votes. At the last general elections, the price of their votes, as offered by the non-Communist Labour party, was a pension of 30s. a week. The party in power to-day offered a pension of 25s. Less than a month ago, when the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  was criticizing the Fadden Government, he brought the price down to 22s. 6d. In order to get into office he put it up to 23s. 6d., and to-day it is pretty good buying at 25s. Yet I am told that this is a non-political matter ! 
I propose to deal with the budget under four headings. The first is the use of the Commonwealth Bank and the abuse of the private banks. The second point is that compulsory loans, which I should like to see introduced, have not been provided for. The third point is that this is a sectional budget which penalizes one section of the community and benefits the other. Fourthly, there is an increase of social services that should not and cannot be tolerated at the present stage in our history. 
It has not yet been inaugurated. In the House of Representatives recently, the Prime Minister, in reply to a speech by the right honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Menzies),  said - 

 Mr. Menzies has been astray in his facts, wrong in his memory and too bizarre in his imagination. 
Those words are not particularly flattering, either to the honorable gentleman who uttered them, or to the people whom the Prime Minister was criticizing. The right honorable member for Kooyong was voicing the sentiments of the Opposition and of thousands of persons outside this Parliament. 
In New Zealand, a Labour Government has been in power for a considerable time, and I shall examine the position that obtains in that dominion. Let us consider my first point - the use and abuse of the private banks. The New Zealand Minister for Finance  (Mr. Nash),  when in Sydney recently, addressed the trade unions in these words - 
Trading banks in New Zealand were doing a better job, self-controlled, than under Government authority, the New Zealand Minister for Finance  (Mr. Nash)  stated in a speech to union secretaries at Sydney Trades Hall. 
There has been argument in our party on the question of taking over the trading banks, but in my opinion the banks are doing a better job than we could make of it. 
Referring to compulsory loans in New Zealand,  Mr. Nash  stated in Sydney recently - 
Taxation rises to 17s. Od. in the £1 on the highest incomes. In some cases it has exceeded income. War-time excess profits are taxed to the extent of 60 per cent, after other taxes have been levied. 
New Zealanders who did not contribute to the dominion's war loan in 1940, according to their means, were compelled to do so. That loan bears no interest for three years, and 24 per cent, thereafter. 
Speaking of sectional legislation,  Mr. Nash  stated - 
We should not argue, or grumble, about taxation. Everybody in New Zealand pays at least ls. in the £1 towards the war. On higher incomes the tax is as much as 17s. 6d. in the £1. 
Commenting on social services,  Mr. Nash  further remarked - 
The Labour Government in New Zealand realized in 1939 that social reforms and ideals previously regarded as urgent must become secondary to the conduct of the war. 
It decided that the people who remained behind must do with less, so that the men who went to fight might have more. 
Therefore the remarks of the Prime Minister that the right honorable member for Kooyong was astray in his facts, wrong in his memory and too bizarre in his imagination does not apply merely to that right honorable member, to the Opposition or to the thousands of other persons in Australia, but also to the people of the Dominion of New Zealand, where a Labour Government is in office. I am afraid that the Prime Minister is like the old lady, who, when watching the troops marching past, exclaimed : " Everybody is out of step except my Jack." The Prime Minister may find that it is he who is out of step, and not the majority of the people. 
The budget has been described in some sections of the press as a win-the-war budget. I do not know what its sponsors meant it to be, and I do no.t care, but it is not a win-the-war budget. which is the sort of financial instrument we need. I am not concerned about the next general elections, because if we do not win this war we shall have had our last general elections. The people of Australia should get it well under their hats that, unless we win the war, Herr Hitler will be the returning officer on the next occasion. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.The Government could 'bring down a budget that would help considerably in that direction. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.That is so. The war can be won only by an all-in effort on the part of the whole of the people. This Parliament and the people of Australia must all get together, forget all party humbug, and be prepared to make every sacrifice, in order to retain this wonderful country that God Almighty has given to us. 
I am pleased that  Senator James  McLachlan, who has just .resumed his seat, concluded on a high note, which was in striking contrast to many of the remarks uttered by him. I realize that honorable senators opposite are anxious that everything possible should be done to organize the resources of Australia fully, so that we may be able to produce the munitions, guns, aeroplanes and other equipment needed by our fighting forces in order that Australia may continue as a modern democracy. Although honorable senators opposite have referred to the necessity for a national government, and for all of us to pilli together against Hitlerism, they enter into party disquisitions which do not carry us very far. I do not blame them for criticizing the Government, because it is essentia], under our parliamentary system, that there should be an element of criticism. That the present Labour Government has agreed to expend this year a few million pounds more than its predecessor intended to expend shows that it is prepared to organize this country on a war basis so that victory shall be won. Even when the Labour party was in opposition, it did not cavil at the expenditure of money for the safety of Australia. A former Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  freely admitted that he could not have dealt with a fairer man than the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  when that honorable gentleman was Leader of the Opposition. He did not seek by devious methods to gain office  Some honorable senators now in opposition have accused the Labour party of assassinating the Government which it superseded, hut they know in their hearts that that Government was destroyed from within. There was more underground engineering among its alleged supporters than has existed in this country for many years. Subterranean tactics destroyed the Menzies Government and then  Mr. Fadden  took control, but he held the reins of office for only a few weeks. In my opinion,  Mr. Menzies  was an outstanding .figure in the parliamentary life of this country. If comparisons were not odious, I should say that he stood head and shoulders above the other members of the parties which constituted the Government of which he was the Prime Minister. So far as I am aware, he was at all times fair to the Labour party; and whenever he gave his word that  certain ,action w ould be taken, that word could be relied upon. Those in opposition to him could trust him. Although he was a political opponent of the Labour party, and a con servative of conservatives, he was undoubtedly a big figure in Australian, politics, and he at all times played the game. 'Unfortunately, he did not have those powers of leadership which other Prime Ministers in this country possessed. That was his misfortune. 
I speak the truth. I am honestly of the opinion that  Mr. Menzies  lacked those powers of leadership which are essential in a Prime Minister, especially in time of war. In saying that, I do not wish to detract from his character, or to say anything against him. Rather do I express my disgust at the way in which he was treated by some members of his own party. 
The present budget was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  after consultation with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin),  the right honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  and others. There was not much time to recast the proposals of the previous Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden).  The new Government had promised to meet the Parliament on a certain date, and it did so. Soon afterwards, the present budget was presented, and the public has accepted it as a genuine attempt to overcome the difficulties that confront Australia. It is an interim budget which follows orthodox lines. It is true that the Government proposes to take certain action in order to control the private hanks in the interests of the people - action which, a few years ago, would have been called revolutionary. The private banks themselves have practically accepted the dictum of the Government. Surely there is nothing wrong in those institutions being controlled in the interests of the nation! Germany took action in that direction years ago, and to-day the banking institutions of that country are the servants of the nation. The entire financial and economic forces of Germany are so controlled that they give the greatest possible return to the nation. In Germany, finance has been made the agent of the people. The history of private banking institutions shows that the interests of their shareholders have been paramount, whilst the interests of the people have been secondary. The result has been that millions of people have been forced to the brink of starvation in order to suit the interests of the financiers. We have now reached the stage in our development when the private hanking institutions will become the servants of the nation. That is a step in the right direction. Long before  Senator Darcey  became a member of the Senate, I spoke in this strain. On other occasions I have quoted from a speech made by the right honorable member for Grafton  (Sir Earle Page)  in the House of Representatives in 1924. He then showed clearly the activities of the private bunking institutions of Australia during the war of 1914-1S, and following years. He told the people how the private banks had benefited by means of unearned increments. I have said before that the action of the banks in those days  was a " ramp " unequalled in the history of the world. In Great Britain the banks used their powers in order to fill the pockets of their shareholders. It is possible, as  Senator Darcey  has frequently pointed out, for the private banking institutions of this country, if uncontrolled, to take charge of the credit issue and to " pyramid " it in such a way as to increase their holdings many times, to the detriment of the people. If they hold any government stock, they oan issue credit to an amount six, seven or eight times the amount of that stock, whether it be in the form of bonds, notes, or treasury-hills. Should a government in time of war issue bonds, stocks or notes, and should those securities get into the hands of the banks, hose institutions are then able to issue credit to an amount several times that of the face value of the securities that they hold. That should not be possible because it means that the banks make excess profits at the expense of the nation even when it is in the throes of war. Surely we have reached that stage in our political and economic development when the Government should control the finances of the country in. the interests of the nation. 
I listened very carefully to  Senator Spicer  when he spoke yesterday, and I admit that he put forward a very good argument on behalf of the bankers. As was to he expected, he advocated orthodox methods of finance. I agree with the honorable senator that a tax on incomes is the fairest form of taxation. All of us who have studied the subject agree that it is fairer to tax the incomes of individuals than to tax them indirectly by devious means through lack of sufficient courage to tax them directly. If we were idealists and could put our ideals into practice, we should agree with  Senator Darcey  that the best way to finance the country's war effort and its other activities would be by the complete control of the banking system by the people. If we had a unified system of banking and if we financed all governmental undertakings by the issue of money controlled by the Government or by the use of social credit, that would be an ideal system. In such an event, in order  that too much money should not be held by individuals or placed in circulation, the Government could use its powers of taxing in order to extract the surplus money from the people. By that means, governments would be able to utilize to the fullest possible extent all the economic powers in their hands, as lias been done in Germany. That would make possible the financing of all essential productive powers in the community, and there would be no need for any man to be unemployed. What I have advocated has the endorsement of a prominent tory financier in this country. I refer to  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene, who said, I believe, in the House of Representatives that our financial problems could be solved if we had in existence a unified system of banking. 
I shall have great pleasure in looking up the speech at an early date. Such a statement by an outstanding tory was remarkable, for, in essence, he said that our problems could be solved if we had one bank controlled by the people of this country. The day when that vision will become a reality is approaching. Honorable senators opposite ave as little able to check the advance of monetary reform as was King Canute to keep back the incoming tide. Our friends opposite have criticized the budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  was very much concerned about the increase of the invalid and old-age pension rate.  Senator James  McLachlan went so far as to say that the Government should not, increase it.  Senator Spicer  said that, if necessary, he would take money in the form of taxes, even from the basic wage-earners. After all was it not only fair to increase the pension rate considering the increase of the cost of living? I have not heard much criticism expressed about the increase of soldiers'' pay. It is admitted by our political enemies that the soldier earns his money. As f matter of fact, if we acted rightly the soldier would be receiving much move than he is to-day. Those who are prepared to lay down their lives for their country and their dependants, should be given first consideration. We have been told by every  speaker  from the opposite side of the chamber that the revised budget is unfair and inequitable. 
Yes, a vicious and dishonest budget. I must confess that I am rather thick in the hide and that these criticisms pass me by ; I have no personal objection to them. Honorable senators opposite say that, whilst we are "soaking" the rich, we are pandering to the voting strength of the great masses of the workers. They would have us believe that they have never pandered to any section of the community. They place themselves on a pedestal and claim a high standard of political ethics. We have been told by honorable senators opposite that this budget proposed to " soak " the .rich and place an unfair burden on a minority section of the community, whilst, at the same time, it will leave untouched the great mass of the people who receive an aggregate income of £560,000,000 per annum. Later, in the same speeches, the same honorable senators have said that as time goes on the budget proposals will bring about an increase of the taxes to be paid by every body and will result in increased commodity prices. It has been said in the House of Representatives by several speakers that, as the result of the operation of the present monetary system, the workers will have to pay more in the future by way of increased taxes, despite the steps taken by the Government to safeguard their interests. If the workers will have to pay, why do we hear these squeals from honorable senators opposite? We know very well that when taxes are imposed, there is a time limit during which the burden of the imposts may be lifted from the shoulders of the workers. The time limit during which the worker is protected has been dealt with on many occasions by honorable senators on thi3 side of the chamber. We all know that, the workers will have to pay in the long run. From one point of view, the workers pay for everything. In reply to the suggestion that the workers are not called upon to pay income tax, I remind our friends, the critics on the other side of the chamber, that the Government has left undisturbed the income tax imposed by the Fadden Government on persons whose incomes do not exceed £1,500 per annum. Listening to our friends of the Opposition, one would imagine that, people in receipt of annual incomes of £1,500 and under paid no income tax at all. 
We all know that no increased direct taxation has been imposed on those whose incomes are £.1.500 per annum and under; but reading the newspapers and the speeches of honorable senators opposite gives one the impression that those who receive incomes of £1,500 per annum and under pay no income tax at all. It is my purpose to disabuse the minds of the people in regard to that erroneous impression. As a matter of fact we have been informed by the Leader of the Senate that, in 1041-42, the direct, taxation imposed on people with incomes of £400 per annum and under yielded to the federal e&gt;.chequer no less than £3,300,000, and to the State governments in State taxation an amount, of £7,000,000, making a total of £10.300,000. 
I have endeavoured to make my submission in perfectly plain language. I have not endeavoured to camouflage the issue; I have spoken straight from the shoulder so that anybody may understand the purport of my remarks. We know that, as the result of the imposition of increased customs and excise duties, the prices of commodities have risen, and the national exchequer has benefited considerably. It is computed that those in receipt of incomes of £400 per annum and under paid to the Commonwealth in sales tax and customs and excise duties no less than £50,000,000, which, added to their direct contribution of £10,300,000, makes a total contribution of £60,300,000 to Commonwealth and State governments by way of tax. Yet our friends opposite say that those in receipt of £8 a week or less are escaping taxation. It is only right that those who receive large incomes should make greater contributions towards the expenses of the Government, especially during the war period, because they have the most to lose. Looking at this question from the point of view of the people and not from the angle of the financiers and exploiters, we consider that the Chifley budget is fair because it places the burden upon the shoulders of those best able to bear it. That people accept our point qf view is demonstrated by the fact that it Kas been welcomed in many quarters. Certainly, it has not been welcomed by the English  Financial News,  nor by the mortgage houses and banking institutions; but the people generally have approved of it because they realize that the Labour Government is doing its best to distribute the burden on an equitable basis. It should he borne in mind by all the people of Australia that it is a fundamental fact that the real cost of the war must be borne now. We cannot saddle posterity with the cost of the war. The people of this country and the other belligerent countries must realize that they have to accept the cost of waging the war. It is admitted by economists that governments can do no more than shift the burden of financing the war from one section of the people to another. It is impossible to carry the burden into the future ; it must be dealt with now. Some people have certain financial claims on society. For a consideration they give up these claims for the time being. The Government says, "If you will not exercise these claims on the community for go'ods and services of every description, we shall pay you in return a certain rate of interest. If you place your money in the savings bank, we shall pay you 2$ per cent, interest for it. If you put it into the war loan, we shall give you 3 per cent, or 3J per cent." '-Chey are surrendering certain claims on society. That is all that is being done; and by such means we shall make it possible for the lower-paid workers to continue to receive the same amount in wages as they have received in the past. Of course, the present money problem disguises these facts. It disguises the real truth that the burden of the war is being carried by the people of to-day. I know that there are two extreme points of view of the monetary system. We have the extreme tory view that would sacrifice everything and anything in order to conserve the interests of the financial exploiter. Our present financial system is a system of financial exploitation. It has developed economically from an industrial system of exploitation, which developed from the feudal system of exploitation; and the last-named system developed from slavery. But we cannot stay the march of progress. Just as financial capitalism developed out of industrial capitalism so there will be some form of socialism, national socialism or communism. We have followed developments in Germany, Italy and Russia. We have noted the regimentation of the people in Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, and also in Communistic Russia. The Government of Germany has become all-powerful. It enters into every walk of economic life. By means of regimentation it gained complete power, and built up a powerful military machine. Some people in this country would have us follow in that direction. Whilst we recognize the power that is inherent in regimentation, at the same time we must recognize that regimentation has a bad effect upon the character of the people and destroys individuality. As Australians and democrats, we believe in the parliamentary democratic system of government; whilst we should take the be3t from the systems overseas, at the same time we should endeavour to preserve all that is best in our economic and parliamentary democracy. ' I am entirely opposed to those  weak-minded  persons - those who cannot weigh up a situation completely - who would institute in this country a form of Nazi-ism, or Fascism, simply because, temporarily, those two systems enjoy a military advantage over the democratic system. I also realize that because of regimentation, Communism enjoys an advantage when compared with political democracy. But the Parliamentary Labour party has not overestimated that advantage; it has not fallen down on its job and declared that we must destroy our parliamentary democracy and accept some form of national socialism, Nazi-ism or Fascism. We contend that by the exercise of our powers as a parliamentary government we can organize democracy in Australia to the end that we shall get the best results possible from the employment of the whole of our people. It is a good thing that honorable senators on both sides of the chamber should exercise their powers of educational propaganda in order to point out to our people the possibilities of our democracy, and to show to them that if only we develop it to the full we shall beat Hitler, Mussolini or any other dictators who have descended to some form of governmental regimentation. We should do that in order to lift our nation on to a higher plane so far as our economic production and military activities are concerned. T want to see regimentation avoided. We can avoid it only by controlling the financial system of this country. We can retain all of the elements of freedom inherent in economic democracy, and, at the same time, utilize all of the powers at our command to gain the best results. In the past, simply because we have not controlled the financial system in this country, we have witnessed the spectacle of at least 400,000 men being out of work. Even to-day thousands of men in. this country are not being employed in the best interests of peace, and victory over Nazi-ism and Fascism. A good deal of this trouble has arisen because the private banking system constitutes a powerful force in this country in its own interests, and not in the interests of the people, and also because we have not de-centralized industry. Sydney has a population of over 1,000,000 people. Roughly, there are nearly as many people in Sydney as in the remainder of New South Wales. In Queensland we have to some degree avoided that tendency by planning our railway systems on a proper basis. The railway systems in that State do not converge on Brisbane. One system ends at Rockhampton and another at Townsville. We have done good service in Queensland in that respect because we have not followed in tie footsteps of Victoria and New South Wales ; and we are now hoping that with further de-centralization of industry we shall render a greater service to Australia. There has been too much centralization in Sydney and Melbourne. The two preceding governments acted unfairly towards Queensland in many respects by centralizing war industries in Victoria and New South Wales, leaving Queensland to its own devices. However, as we now have a government in power which believes in decentralization, we hope that in the next few months, when the Government really gets into harness, it will give effect to that principle. 
The only other matter to which I wish to refer is the Ministry of Information. I believe that that ministry is the most important of our minor ministries. I admit, of course, the greater importance of such departments as the Treasury and the service ministries generally; but of the minor ministries, it is the most important. A Labour government particularly should endeavour to utilize the greatest and the best brains in this community for the purpose of getting the best results from that Ministry. In Germany, the Ministry' of Information has reduced its work to a fine art. At the head of the German Ministry of Information - or misinformation - is  Dr. Goebbels;  and Litovsky,  in Russia, runs a close second. Those men realize the power of the spoken and the printed word. One reason why the fighting spirit and understanding that were so much in evidence during the last war are not so apparent in Australia to-day is because we have not utilized to the full the powers that should be vested in the Ministry of Information. Through that ministry the people should be told the whole truth. As I have stated on previous occasions in this chamber, no one wishes, for one moment, that military secrets should be disclosed to the people. "We have no desire to know the disposition of our naval or military forces. However, there has been gross mishandling of the Ministry of Information in the past, as the result of which the people of this country are not yet fully awake to the dangers that beset them. Any one who reads  The Rape of the Masses,  which has just been published - I think the author is a Russian, judging by his nam'e, hut he spent much of his life in Germany - will realize the power possessed by Hitler through his Ministry of Information. The Germans have been able to accomplish what, in many instances, army corps could not have accomplished. Their propaganda has percolated into other countries and undermined the opposition of people who would seek to destroy Nazi-ism and Fascism. They recognize, and we must recognize, that only a small percentage of people really think out a problem for themselves. It has been computed that less than 10 per cent, of people are capable of analysing a problem and coming to a definite conclusion. That is because, under our capitalistic financial system, the workers, and the people generally, have not been properly educated. Our educational systems have made the brains of our boys and girls mere repositories of a certain number of facts and data. They have developed the memory of our boys and girls, but not their power of analysis, or the power to think and come to a definite conclusion on any problem. The result of such a system of education is that venal politicians, " shrewdies " of every description and military larrikins, such as exist in Germany have been able by their mass propaganda to mould the minds of the people and lead them in the way they desire. There is no greater illustration of the fact that the mass-mind can be moulded by men who understand this work than the results achieved by the Ministry of Information in Germany. In that country, the great mass of the people have given up their individual freedom. They have had their individuality destroyed, and have become mere cogs in a great machine that is being used to-day by unscrupulous and bloody-minded men for the purpose of imposing their will upon the entire world, let us recognize the weaknesses of our people in that respect, and let us try to overcome those weaknesses by adopting a more effective system of education. Whilst recognizing those weaknesses, let us mould the minds of the people, not for the purpose of destroying individuality, or making of them mere cogs in a machine to be utilized for mass murder, but in order to build up in Australia a fighting force for the development of a real economic and parliamentary democracy. A man who understands the power of propaganda, whether he be called the Minister for Information or the Minister for Propaganda - if he really understands how to "put it over", 'and really knows the mass mind - will organize his department in order to enable the people of Australia to understand completely the terrific problems that confront them. It is useless for us to moan because our people are not fully alive to the dreadful possibilities of the near future. We must understand that they are willing to shed their last drop of blood in order to defend this nation. I do not think that there is a single man in- the community, even a Communist, who is not prepared to give his best in order to safeguard our Australian democracy. Yet we are told repeatedly by honorable senators opposite and by some of our military leaders that our people are unresponsive to the appeals that are being made to the mass mind. Why? The Fadden and the Menzies Governments failed lamentably to understand the proper method of approach to the people. 
That is an inane aud stupid remark, and I am surprised that it should be made by some one of the calibre and ability of the honorable senator who has just interjected. I praised  Mr. Menzies  because of bis character and his integrity; that does not mean, that I must blind my eyes to the truth. The truth about the Menzies Government is that it failed completely to do its jab. 
I regret that expenditure of the Department of Information is to be reduced by £80,000. I should like more money to be expended on the department, but expended more wisely than has been the case in the past, so that the people of Australia might be awakened to a fuller understanding of what is necessary in order to achieve victory. Thousands of pounds have in effect been thrown down the sink. Large sums have been paid to newspaper proprietors for advertisements which have been worth absolutely nothing so far as the education of the people is concerned. The Minister for Information has under his control one of our most important war departments, and I hope that as time progresses, there will be a complete appreciation of the powers of propaganda. People of this country must be made to realize the dire consequences of a failure to defeat the enemy with whom we are now at grips. 
.- There is one feature that the Fadden and Curtin budgets have in common and that is an appreciation of the extreme urgency of the situation, and the need for a full war effort in this country if the present conflict is to be prosecuted successfully. Events during this, the third year of war, have brought home to Australian citizens the necessity for greater sacrifices. The Fadden budget proposed to' spread the sacrifices evenly over the whole community, and had the Labour party not been so anxious to obtain control of the treasury bench, many supporters of the previous Government would have assisted them to make some amendments. It is always possible to adjust a budget. It is a very unusual budget indeed that does not admit of some amendments. In times such as these, compromise should be resorted to more frequently. The sacrifices which the Fadden Government proposed to call upon the citizens of this country to make, were nothing compared with the sacrifices which our soldiers, sailors and airmen are making overseas. Regardless of the additional pay our fighting forces may receive, their sacrifices in health, mutilation and possibly death, and the doubtful prospect of employment upon their return from overseas, are out of all proportion to the sacrifices made by those who are living at home in comfort and security. It is surprising that many members of the Labour party, whose sons, nephews and other relatives are overseas, did not see in the Fadden budget an endeavour to make those sacrifices more equitable; to make the conditions endured by our fighting men overseas the yardstick for measuring our contributions. The Curtin budget has widened the inequality of sacrifice between the man in uniform and the man at home. It is an early election budget; a budget of hope - hope that those thousands of people who have escaped increased taxation will forgo some of the advantages which they are enjoying, and contribute a little to war loans. Last week I addressed several war loan and recruiting meetings, and the experience was most heartbreaking. Nothing will awaken the people of this country except an Invasion. During the past twelve months the returnedsoldier Government supporters periodically met the then Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  in conference, in order to exchange views on military subjects. The Minister appreciated those conferences, and when the present Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  assumed office, on the very first day we returned.soldier politicians, numbering 22, went to him and told him what had been done very quietly in the past, and assured him that we would be prepared to give him the benefit of our reservoir of knowledge and experience.  Mr. Forde  thanked us very much. He is a layman and therefore cannot be expected to be acquainted with all the details of army organization. Of course he has his official advisers, but too often official advisers see things only from the official point of view. We returned-soldier politicians can view matters in a different way. We are not sitting back in the traces. We are prepared to give all possible support to the new Minister for the Army, in the tremendous task which is ahead of him. 
I congratulate the Fadden Government upon the appointment of General  Sir Iven  Mackay as General Officer Commanding the Australian Home Forces. I am confident that when  Sir Iven  Mackay gets into his stride there will be an improvement in the training of our troops. For some time I have been a little apprehensive as to the value, of camps covering a period of three months. Information at my disposal leads me to believe that the offensive fire-power of the infantry has not been developed to the extent that it should have been. In these days of mechanization there is a tendency to place the infantryman in the background. He and his weapons are supposed to ho out of date; but are they? What is keeping the Nazi divisions out of Leningrad and Moscow ? - the Soviet man-power and Red infantry. The leaders of these two great conflicting armies have merged all auxiliary arms, including dive-bombers, into the infantry units. Every engine of this modern war comes under the infantry leader's control and direction. There is nothing new in that technique. Dive bombing is merely a substitute for the artillery barrage of the last war. Perfect co-ordination and co-operation between this air artillery and land troops must be practised in our militia camps. Should there be any objections on the part of the Royal Australian Air Force, the officials standing in the way mast be removed. I am not suggesting for one moment that the Royal Australian Air Force should be taken over by the General Officer Commanding the Australian Home Forces, hut he should have under his direction sufficient squadrons of aircraft for training purposes. I am very pleased to know that 33 per cent, of the Australian Home Defence Army has been called up for the duration of the war. That is a nucleus around which full mobilization can be carried out smoothly and expeditiously. What is troubling commanding officers generally at present is the continuous demand for exemption from military training, and a shortage of certain types of war equipment. The latter disability is being remedied gradually, but lack of personnel is a serious drawback. A tightening up of reserved occupations and exemptions must 

 Senator Brand. be made, otherwise, upon mobilization, gaps in the ranks will have to be filled by untrained men who will be only hi the way. I hope that the Minister for the Army will instruct  Sir Iven  Mackay to submit a report to Parliament on the preparedness of Australia's army for active operations. Nobody could do that job better than  Sir Iven  Mackay. What does it matter if the enemy knows these things ? Probably he knows them already. It is better for us to find out our shortcomings so that they may be remedied. Recruiting for the Australian Imperial Force also has been affected by the long list of reserved occupations. Not every one in such occupations desire3 to evade enlistment. Undoubtedly many of them want to enlist, but they are held back by senior officers. No one is indispensable. In all the service departments there are scores of technicians who cannot be replaced, but also there are scores of young men whose places could be taken by members of the Australian Women's Army. It is the holding of these eligibles  in government departments that is causing the lag in recruiting. Altogether too many men are engaged in the production of non-essential goods. The Government has a golden opportunity to peg the production of non-essential commodities. The previous governments were unable to do that because they did not have the numbers. They had to contend with an unsympathetic Opposition, but now the Opposition is sympathetic. The Government can rely upon the full support of the Opposition to increase munitions production by curtailing drastically the output of unnecessary commodities. 
I have a few other matters in mind, but they can be dealt with more appropriately when the unofficial returned soldiers' committee meets the Minister for the Army in his own rooms, where discussion is freer and more personal. 
As regards company taxation, the fact that all classes of the community are interdependent is lost sight of by the present Government. No real objection can be taken to imposing heavy taxation upon the very rich, especially those who, although they amassed their wealth in Australia, are now living abroad. 
However, strong objection is taken to increasing the burden of taxation on companies. That is class taxation. The working man, the widow, the spinster, aud the man who is too old to work, have invested their money in these company pools, and they are entitled to some return in the form of a reasonable dividend. An analysis of the lists of shareholders in most companies shows that the middle-class community holds most of the shares. In seeking to get at the far bigger man, the Government's severe company tax proposals are akin to "burning down the house to roast a pig". After meeting all commitments, little is left of the profits for transfer to a reserve fund, and in the absence of reserve funds, progress is impossible ; business will stagnate or deteriorate. In either case, employees are in jeopardy, and are likely to be discharged. In short, continuity of work and wages for the employees depends absolutely upon the financial stability of the employers, either individually or collectively. Yet the Curtin Government proposes, by excessive company taxation, to dry up the sources which provide a livelihood for the working man. When this war is over, a company without reserves will be unable to make headway. During the depression years from 1929 to 1932, the companies which stood the strain and kept a 'large proportion of their staffs in employment were those with substantial reserves. In addition to the company tax, shareholders' dividends also are to be taxed. Groups of well-founded, wellmanaged companies are an asset to the nation. They give stability and guarantee continuity of employment. It seems to me that the Government, in its endeavour to please the masses, is penalizing the thrifty. We must depend upon the thrifty, and not. upon the spendthrift section of the community for the rebuilding and development of Australia in the post-war period. Some people predict that there will be a boom in Australia after the war, whilst others consider that a period of very lean years is more likely to be experienced. The best contribution to post-war rehabilitation will be made by groups of financially sound companies capable of employing thousands of those who will be released from war production. 
The Treasurer may ask how necessary revenue could be raised, if company taxes were kept at a reasonable level. The thousands of persons who now spend money on horse-racing, betting, beer, and other pleasure pursuits might well be called upon to contribute a little more by way of direct taxes. This source will have to he tapped eventually. The section comprising persons with taxable incomes over £1,500 a year is very limited, and I believe that those on the lower incomes would, if the matter were put to a vote, gladly consent to pay more. 
I should like favorable consideration to be given to the completion of the NorthSouth railway by bridging the gap between Alice Springs and Birdum, a distance of 316 miles. It is believed that that link could be constructed within two years at the rate of 30 miles a month, and each 30 miles of completed railroad would save thousand's of gallons of petrol. Nobody can prophesy accurately the duration of the war, or to what degree Australia will be involved. The completion of the North-South railway is a matter of national importance, and a vital one from the point of view of defence. It is generally considered that railways are a major mode of transport for defence and heavy haulage. The cost of the proposed work is estimated to be £4,000,000, and the services of 1,500 unskilled men and 30 technicians would be required. Most of the necessary material is available in the locality, and I suggest that, if sufficient Australian man-power is not available, prisoners of war could be used for this work to the degree permitted by international convention. If necessary, they could be paid the basic wage. The necessary guards over prisoners of war need not be large owing to the concentrated nature of the work. The utilization of their services in that way would be a better proposition than distributing them in small groups on farms throughout Australia. I submit that the proposal might well be investigated by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, should the Government reregard it favorably. The committee could present a report to the Parliament on the matter within a month. 
The reply given to me yesterday by the Minister representing the Minister for the 
Army to my question regarding the Volunteer Defence Corps was partly satisfactory. I asked the question in order to draw attention to lack of official encouragement to that body of patriotic citizens. I wished to give to the Minister an opportunity to say if there was any justification for referring to the Volunteer Defence Corps as a sort of Cinderella of the home defence force. To say that the members of the Volunteer Defence Corps who took part in the recent military exercises known as " The Battle of Corangamite " did good work was an acknowledgment that that section of our home defence force is worthy of encouragement. Those members decided to put forward a special effort to demonstrate the value of the corps, and they succeeded in their purpose. In future, no doubt, we shall hear less comment regarding official  lukewarmness  to the corps. The Military Board is not entirely to blame. It has a difficult task in meeting all demands for equipment. The majority of the patriotic men who form this corps are returned soldiers, but a large percentage of them are not. They use their private motor cars and their own petrol in order to travel to the localities selected for training. Many of them cannot go because of the shortage of petrol, but, in the country districts of Victoria, one sees many private motor cars being driven to mid-week race meetings, the occupants carrying field glasses which should have been sent to our fighting forces in -the Middle East. We should see that the Volunteer Defence Corps receives an increased allowance of petrol to enable its members to carry out their patriotic work. 
.- I shall not discuss the budget in detail, because I shall have an opportunity to do that, when the bills necessary for the implementation of the budget are submitted to us. The Government has the heavy responsibility cast upon it of putting into operation a budget providing for the largest expenditure that Australia has ever faced. In 1929, when the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  was a member of the Opposition, he stated that, the Bruce-Page Administration, knowing that a. depression was coming, purposely handed over the baby of government and placed it on the lap of the Labour party. The honorable member for Henty  (Mr. Coles)  Has now caused that baby to be handed over again to the Labour party, which has adopted it, and whose duty it is to see that the infant is properly cared for. 
I give to the present Government credit for the way in which it is telling the people what has been done throughout the length and breadth of Australia in expanding our industries. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  has pointed out the great preparedness of this country for defence, should it be invaded. The Minister foi- the Army  (Mr. Forde)  has also drawn attention to the immense volume of work that has been done in the various railway workshops, in the annexes to private factories, and in the other establishments in which munitions of war are being produced. We have heard a similar story from the Minister for Munitions  (Mr. Makin)  and other members of the Government. All this is a great compliment to the Menzies and Fadden Governments, which laid the foundations for the present war effort. A few weeks ago, on the railway which passes my property in the electorate of Corangamite, I noticed a special train containing over 50 trucks of Bren gun carriers. The previous Government was too modest to tell the people of Australia about the quantities of war materials that had been produced. The day before yesterday, betwen  Melbourne and Canberra, I saw another train on which there were 36 Bren gun carriers and 20 armoured vehicles. I recently visited a country workshop in order to have my motor car greased, and the proprietor told me that he could not attend to my requirements because he was busy making munitions. He said that his small workshop was now a factory and was turning out 4,000 articles a week for the Government. He added that he had nine months' work ahead of him. This change-over from peace-time to war-time activity is to be noted in all parts of Australia, but the Menzies and Fadden Governments did not tell the people the whole story. The present Government is deserving of credit for having satisfied the people that great work is being accomplished. " The 
Battle of Corangamite " referred to by  Senator Brand  took place in the neighbourhood of my property, and, in one section of the district alone, there were 600 army vehicles. The people of the western district of Victoria had not imagined that there were so many army vehicles in the whole of Australia. Australia has done well in its production of war equipment for it started from scratch. The more industries cun be extended to country districts the better it will be. 
An effort is being made to raise a war loan of £100,000,000, and it is the duty of every person in the community to put as much money as possible into that loan, but I am afraid that the Government is hampering the war effort by imposing inequitable taxes on a certain section of the community. On war industries the Government proposes to limit profits to 4 per cent. I point out that there is tremendous risk in inaugurating industries for the manufacture of war requirements, because, as soon as the war is over, the establishments will be closed and the machinery will be practically valueless. 
The annexes and many engineering works are, but not country motor garages. It would be reasonable to allow the writing off of a reasonable sum for depreciation in respect of the machinery in the private establishments in the country. 
That, plant was installed in the annexes to factories. If that hud not been done, the war effort would have been greatly reduced. 
As I have already said, the taxes proposed by the present Government will hamper the war effort. People do not know what they will have to pay in taxes.  Senator Brown  made it clear that the Government proposes to ask only 30 per cent, of the people to pay additional taxes. That is not right. Every person in the community and every method of taxation should yield an additional amount towards the war effort. 
Some of them are not paying .as much as they ought to pay. 
He should pay something, even if only 5s., and I believe that he would gladly do so. The Government proposes to exempt altogether from taxation £560,000,000 of income, as  Senator Spicer  pointed out  yesterday. That is wrong. It is possible for a man to be called upon to pay more in taxes than his income. Persons in receipt of incomes between £400 and £1,500 will be exempt from additional taxation. That should not be. These people are prepared to pay a little more than they have paid in the past. In striking contrast to that section persons with incomes of £1,500 a year and upwards will be taxed very heavily. Indeed, as  Senator Spicer  pointed out yesterday, if the whole of their income were taken from them the Government would not obtain all of the money that it requires. Those are the people who would put money into war loans, but they cannot do so if they are i:o be taxed heavily. They cannot contribute practically the whole of their income in taxes and also subscribe to war loans. 
There has been a tremendous expansion of industry in Australia, but the Government is acting wrongly in limiting to 4 per cent, the profits allowed to war-time industries. I hope that it will reconsider this matter and give to the people concerned permission to write off the value of machinery which will become obsolete as soon as the war is over. 
I come now to the subject of duplication of taxation. Before the introduction of the present budget the incomes of a husband and wife and their children were treated separately, but it is now proposed to bulk the taxable incomes of husband and wife, and of their children also in oases of trust estates. In many instances, the wife had an income before her marriage. Why should that income be added to that of her husband  (or taxation  purposes? I agree that the Government is entitled to bulk incomes where attempts to evade the payment of taxes are made. If, for instance, a husband ha? handed assets over to his wife in order to escape the payment of tax some action to meet the case is justified; but the Government is not entitled to tax income which a wife had before her marriage. The proposal to bulk taxable incomes of children in a trust estate with the incomes of their parents may mean lifting the rate of tax to a much higher point than if the incomes were treated separately. 
I have no objection to the invalid and old-age pension being raised by la. 6d. a week, but actually the Government's proposal will not raise the pension by 3d. a week. The Labour party professes to be opposed to indirect taxation, but the Government proposes to impose indirect taxation which will take from the invalid and old-age pensioner more than his additional ls. 6d. a week. 
What about the excise on the pensioner's beer and tobacco ? 
I say that the necessaries of life will be taxed under the Government's proposals. When .wages rise it is impossible to hold prices. Wages have risen since the war began, and in consequence prices must rise. The process cannot be stopped. I put it to the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  that the Government is asking the retail grocer to sell matches at 8d. a gross less phan he pays for them. 
The mess has been made not by the Prices Commissioner but by the Minister. Professor Copland knows too much about price-fixing to make a mess of things. 
Previously there was an exemption of £5,000 in respect of federal land tax. I know something of this subject. Although a man may have a mortgage on his property amounting to 50 per cent, of its value he still has to pay land tax on its unimproved value. Even if he meets with drought conditions he still has to pay the land tax, although he may have lost money. 
That is so. Now the Government proposes to put an extra 20 per cent, on the land tax in respect of properties the unimproved value of which is over £20,000. That is unfair. I do mot know whether it is the intention of the Government to aggregate the value of land held by a husband and wife for the purpose of land tax, but I think that that is its intention. I should like the Leader of the Senate to say whether it is or not. 
The present Government has unwisely increased the tax. 
Under this combined income scheme a man with a large income, plus the income of his children, might have £45,000. I am stating a hypothetical case. The taxpayer is allowed as a deduction £5,000 paid as land tax. 'That makes his taxable income for income tax purposes £40,000. The income tax that he has to pay on that income amounts to £35,153. When the £5,000 paid as land tax is added, it will be seen that the total is £40,153, or £153 more than his taxable  income 
They are not wrong; they were compiled by the Taxation Department. 
He would have £4,847 left. 
That man has probably put £50,000 into war loans, but he will be compelled to place his bonds on the market and realize on them in order to pay his taxes. 
I do not think that any previous budget has summed up in five lines a government's proposals in connexion with rural industries. The only reference in this budget to rural industries is a short paragraph in which the Government says that it will consult with the State governments with a view to dealing with men in marginal areas. I tell the Government that it will never succeed in shifting farmers from the marginal areas. They will not leave the land. No one knows that better than you do,  Mr. President.  Farmers who have one good season are prepared to stay on the laud for ten seasons. Most of the men in marginal areas have had one good year, and they will not allow themselves to he forced off their holdings. 
I have consistently opposed the limitation of production because I believe that the principle is wrong. 
That is the proper way. I hope that the present Government will see that men who planted wheat before the last scheme was proposed will be given an opportunity to sow the same area as previously. Under the scheme now in operation they are not permitted to plant wheat on land which has not been licensed as a farm. Farms should never have been licensed. If licensing be necessary, the growers should be licensed and limited to the area that they sowed previously. That would have limited production. 
Nature has its own way of meeting such contingencies. I remind honorable senators that this country is subject to droughts. 
I should like the Government to close all non-essen'tial industries, .of which there arc scores in this country. In some Melbourne and Sydney shops there are hundreds of girls and scores of young men selling luxuries. Those employees should be somewhere else. 
-There is a long list of luxuries in the schedule to the sales tax legislation. The people employed in these non-essential industries should be taken out of those industries for the duration of the war and put into places where they would be of service to the country. 
The idea of having reserved occupations is wrong. Many persons are sheltering in reserved occupations. The greatest reserved occupation is service in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. In many country districts there are young men in post offices who should not be there; at least they should be receiving training in military camps. 
Last night  Senator Foll  referred to criticism, of the Department of Information. I wish to make it clear that I have not criticized that department, although I did give to the honorable senator, when he was Minister in charge of the department, certain information which was given in evidence before the Joint Committee on Broadcasting. I gave to the honorable senator the views of other persons whose opinions were based on knowledge. I was not a critic of the department. 
That does not mean that I shall not be a critic of the department; but if I criticize it, my criticism will be in relation to its broadcasting service to places outside Australia. When the committee's report comes hefore the Senate I shall avail myself of the opportunity to express my views on that subject. 

 Senator Brand referred to the activities of the Volunteer Defence Corps. This body recently did extraordinarily good work in the western district of Victoria. Although the recent mock " battle of Corangamite " extended for 150 miles, I believe that every bridge in that area was protected by members of the Volunteer Defence 001'ps. They did a remarkably good job. Their achievements show what organization in peacetime will do, and how valuable a little training is in preparing men for possible happenings. 
I hope that the Government will amend its budget in many respects. There is ample room for amendments which will distribute the burden more equitably among all sections of the community. 
Having listened to Opposition speakers, I must confess that I waited in vain for some constructive criticism of the Government's budget proposals. Almost every honorable senator opposite who has spoken on the budget has commenced his speech by trying to pump life into the corpse of the national government proposal. That proposal has been dead for many months. Their attempt to inject life into it at this stage is fruitless and a waste of time. The disunity that exists in the two parties comprising the Opposition to-day should be ample warning of the dangers that would confront any attempt to achieve unanimity amongst the members of the three political parties represented in this Parliament. Honorable senators opposite set themselves up as the champions of democracy and the redoubtable opponents of a. dictatorship - they have even criticized the Labour Government because it is guided by the advice  of  caucus in matters of policy - but they are so accustomed to being dictated to by their successive leaders that they do not know the meaning of democracy. The dictatorship established by their leaders whilst they were in power has undoubtedly landed them in opposition to-day. 
The next most pertinent question raised by honorable senators opposite was in relation to the improvement of the social standards of the people during the war period. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  made that subject one of the salient features of his speech. If he and those of his colleagues who have so bitterly opposed the increase of the invalid and old-age pension rate analysed the position of the pensioner to-day they would find that to-day 23s. 6d. has not as great a purchasing power as the 20s. paid a few years ago. The opposition of honorable senators to the increase of the invalid and old-age pension rate contrasts strangely with their opposition to the proposed increase of taxation on those in the high income group. Honorable senators opposite claim that those in receipt of £10,000 or £15,000 a year will have left for their own use, after paying the income tax proposed by the Government, " only " £4,500, or £S6 a week. At the same time they oppose the increase of the pension rate to 23s. 6d. a week. It is not a matter of what is taken away from the taxpayer but of what he has left for his needs after he has paid his taxes. The Leader of the Opposition endeavoured to make a comparison between the taxation proposals of the present Government and the taxes at present levied in New Zealand. The honorable senator failed to tell us what pension is paid to the invalid and old-age pensioners in New Zealand, or what rate of permissible income they can earn without deduction from the pension payments, nor did he mention that the taxes imposed in New Zealand include a special tax which entitles a taxpayer to certain pensions and free hospital treatment. 
That is so. The honorable senator endeavoured to make us believe that the taxes levied by the Government of the sister dominion were imposed for war purposes only. He endeavoured to show that those people in Australia whose incomes are below £4.00 a year are immune from the payment of income tax, whereas he is well aware that the six State governments impose taxes on incomes, some as low as £100 per annum, and that municipal councils throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth impose indirect taxes on all of the people, whereas New Zealand has only one Government collecting tax from the people in that dominion; hut he could not support his contention with facts. The honorable senator complained about the injustice and inequality of the Government's proposal to impose heavier taxes on the rich. He spoke of the principle of ability to pay. No one will contend that people who enjoy large incomes are not  much better able to pay the heavy imposts demanded from  them  than the people on lower incomes. If a man has very little money, obviously he has difficulty in meeting his commitments. 
I agree, but wealthy people have greater resources upon which to draw in order to meet their commitments than those in the lower income group. 
I admit that a poor man would not even be able to pay interest on the commitments of the rich. The point I make is that the man on a low wage has much greater difficulty in meeting his commitments than the more fortunate people in the community. Honorable senators opposite have put up a great fight on behalf of the wealthy sections of the community and affluent companies. Governments supported by honorable senators opposite have always adopted a policy of protecting wealthy companies and creating monopolies. It is understandable, then, why honorable senators opposite should offer such a spirited defence of those in receipt of large incomes and of large and influential companies. The wealthy and the big companies have so much to lose that their defence by their political representatives in this Parliament is of primary importance. The majority of the shareholders in such companies are not eligible to light or to work in munitions factories. Some are comfortably retired ; others are doing all they can to enrich themselves still more by the exercise of their brains. Why should they not be called upon to make greater sacrifices? If they are unable to assist the country physically they should at least, be prepared to help it financially. That is all the Government asks them to do. A great deal of criticism has been levelled against the revised budget, but let us see if there is any fundamental difference between the principles outlined in the present budget and those contained in the Fadden budget. 
Much has been said about the danger of inflation resulting from the financial proposals of the present Government.  Senator Spicer  said that he did not know where we proposed to find the extra £72,000,000 required for war expenditure alone. The Government proposes to raise that money, first, by taxation imposed on those best able to bear it; secondly, by loans, and thirdly, by an expansion of national credit. Although the Fadden budget contained the same three proposals, not one honorable senator opposite raised his voice in protest; but because they are incorporated in the revised budget, the Government is subjected to hostile criticism and the threat that its financial policy will bring about inflation. 
I should like the honorable senator to explain what he terras inflation. No honorable senator opposite told us that the Menzies and Fadden Governments issued national credit to an amount of £50,000,000 or £60,000,000. No honorable senator opposite has yet explained to the Senate that ihe difference between borrowing through the private banking system as we know it to-day and borrowing through the Commonwealth Bank if the status of that bank were slightly altered. There is no difference in as much as, irrespective of from whom we borrow, we get the same credit. Before I leave the subject of finance and taxation, I wish to reply to the contention of some honorable senators opposite that 2,354,000 people in Australia pay no taxes at all. The fact is that those people are making heavy contributions by way of indirect taxes.  Senator Spicer  saw fit to criticize the Government's proposals for the imposition of indirect taxes. I point out that the honorable senator omitted to tell the people that the Fadden budget proposed to collect no less than £74,925,000 in indirect taxes. He failed to point out that under the Fadden budget, it was proposed to raise the following sums by indirect tax - 'customs and excise £53,000,000, sales tax, £10,400,000 and flour tax, £1,525,000. The present Government is not the first to impose indirect taxes. In this respect, it proposes to follow the method of the Fadden Government; but in order to reduce the production of luxury goods with the object of transferring the labour now employed in that sphere to the production of war material, it will raise the indirect tax chiefly on luxuries by an amount of £2,455,000. Honorable senators opposite object to the increase of that tax because it will mainly affect the wealthier sections of the community. Any criticism that  might be levelled against this budget insofar as sales tax is concerned could also be levelled against the Fadden budget. This Government will place that tax on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. Contrast that policy with the policy of the Fadden Government which, without parliamentary sanction, collected income tax from our troops. 
I repeat that the Fadden Government illegally collected tax from our soldiers before the regulation authorizing it to do so had been gazetted. Honorable senators opposite are now squealing because this Government refuses to increase the rate of income tax on the 2,354,000 people on the lower levels of income. The incomes of those people average £182 12s. a year. 
A great portion of juveniles, between the ages of 16 and 21, who are in employment are doing a man's work and are receiving the basic wage. Consequently, it cannot be said that those 2,354,000 persons include a great number of juveniles in the ordinary sense. Although the average income of those people is only £182 12s., honorable senators opposite contend that their rate of tax should be considerably increased. I feel sure that if a general election were pending and those honorable senators propounded to the people the ideas they have expressed here this afternoon, we should not see them in this chamber after the election.  Senator Gibson  let the cat out of the bag. He argued that to the degree that the wealthy people are taxed, we shall find it impossible to borrow from them. We are well aware of that fact; but we ask, are those people not bound to pay their share of taxes as well as the persons on the lower levels of income? The honorable senator, however, wants this Government to refrain from increasing the tax on the higher incomes, but to increase the tax on the lower incomes, in order that we might be able to pay interest on the money we borrow from persons enjoying the higher incomes. So far as I can see, that is the main objection that has been advanced by honorable senators opposite to the Government's taxation proposals. Briefly, their argument is that if we tax people on the higher incomes, they will not be able to subscribe to Government loans. Another honorable senator opposite expressed disappointment because the Government will have nothing to do with the proposal of the Fadden Government to raise revenue by way of compulsory loans. That scheme is generally described as the Keynes plan. Under it, every worker in the community, whether he could afford to do so or not, would be obliged to loan money in weekly instalments to the Government. Apparently no consideration was to be paid to the fact that a man on the basic wage might not be able to afford that instalment, and, at the same time meet his instalments on his house and furniture. 
I have done so. If compelled' to contribute to such loans, how could the ordinary worker on the lower ranges of income be expected to continue to purchase war savings certificates? This Government prefers the voluntary method of raising revenue to the compulsion inherent in the financial dictatorship which honorable senators opposite advocate. I remind them that we are fighting this war in order to combat the principle of compulsion. Since the inception of the war savings certificate scheme £23,000,000 worth of certificates have been bought by the public. 
How much did the Fadden Government propose to raise by way of compulsory loans? 
It w ould have got a shock; but let us examine the proposal on the basis of that figure. Since the inception of the scheme £23,000,000 worth of war savings certificates have been sold, that is, within a period of a little more than twelve months. That money was subscribed voluntarily. The Fadden Government proposed to raise practically the same amount annually by compulsion. No allowance was to be made for the fact that a worker might not be able to afford his weekly payments. 
No provision was made under the Fadden Government's proposal to exclude from the scheme any worker who might find it impossible to contribute to compulsory loans and, at the same time, meet his commitments. That Government intended, to throw overboard our democratic system of voluntary subscription, and to substitute for it a financial dictatorship.  Senator Spicer  said that the present war loan of £100,000,000 would not be fully subscribed. . If that be the case, the only reason for its failure will be that the interest rate is not sufficiently high to arouse the patriotism of those who can afford to subscribe to war loans, and who would readily do so if the rate of interest were 6 per cent, or 7 per cent, instead of 3 per cent.  Senator Foll  described this budget as a dishonest budget, because the Government had failed to tell the people how it was going to finance its proposals. The honorable senator withdrew the term "dishonest". I remind him that any criticism he offers of this budget on the ground that the Government has failed to explain in detail how it proposes to raise the revenue it requires, could with greater justification be applied to the Fadden budget. The honorable senator went on to say that some people were not conscious that a war was on, and were not doing their best in the interests of the nation. Probably, some people are not conscious of the war. Before passing judgment in that respect, however, I suggest that we should wait to see whether the current war loan is fully subscribed. If that loan is not fully subscribed one can only draw the conclusion that those who can afford to subscribe to it, and do not, are the subject of the honorable senator's criticism. Failure of that loan will prove that the wealthier sections of the community are not pulling their weight in the war effort. I presume that those are the people to whom the honorable senator refers. He also stated that the list of reserved occupations required overhauling, in order to release men now engaged in non-essential industries for the production of war materials. He expressed the hope that reinforcements would be maintained for our troops overseas who were in need of support. An assurance to that effect has been given by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin).  When the honorable senator was speaking, he was asked by way of interjection if he could indicate one occupation which could be removed from the reserved list. He did not answer thai inquiry, but just rambled on in a general way. One would expect that an honorable senator would be in possession of evidence to support such a statement. I hope that honorable senators opposite who have yet to speak during this debate, will not do as their predecessors have done, and criticize the budget without endeavouring to make some constructive suggestions. Up to the present, criticism from the Opposition has beeen  far from constructive, and every word that they have uttered in condemnation of this budget, could be used with even greater emphasis against the Fadden budget. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
Last night  Senator Foll  made a most damaging, vindictive and malicious attack upon those controlling the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. Since the charge was made I have made inquiries, and have ascertained the facts. I am going to be sufficiently generous to say that probably  Senator Foll  was misinformed in regard to this matter, because I am convinced that the information which was given to him was incorrect. This afternoon I obtained a statement from the manager of the factory and also from the secretary of the union concerned. Tlie honorable senator told  a  story concerning a man for whom he had found employment at the factory some time ago, and claimed that the man who described himself as a fitter and turner, had since informed him that when at the factory, he walked about doing absolutely nothing for several days. He also stated that when he asked for some practical work he was put at a bench and told to fill in the time as best he could. The man also made other similar statements alleging mismanagement and economic waste of trained labour, culminating in an accusation against the union at Lithgow.  Senator Foil's  words in making this serious charge were, " This man, who is a good unionist, said that the union leaders have complete control of the factory and that the foremen are helpless ". I am now in a position to inform honorable senators of the facts. As one who has been in close contact with unionists in the Lithgow district for many years, and who knows intimately the conditions operating there at present, I was most disturbed at the honorable senator's allegations. The employees at the factory are rendering yeoman service in our war effort. In order to reach their work many have to travel up to 30 miles. They have to rise at 5 a.m. in order to be at work at 7 a.m., and when they finish a 12-hour shift at 7 p.m., they have to travel 30 miles to their homes before they get their evening meal. When they arrive at their homes between S p.m. and 9 p.m. it is bed-time. For many months the time of these men has been occupied in working and sleeping. They have no opportunity to engage in any form of recreation. 
I hope that he was. I was very disturbed by the allegations, and I .discussed the matter immediately with the Minister for Munitions  (Mr. Makin),  whom I represent in this chamber. The Minister asked me to probe the allegations without delay. This morning I asked  Senator Foll  to give me the name of his informant, but he was unable to do so because it would have been a breach of confidence. I do not blame him for that, because he has a right to protect the interests of the person who gave him the information. The facts are these: Less than a month ago, a  Mr. L.  C. Jones began work at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory as the result of representations made by  Senator Foll  on his behalf to the Department of Labour and National Service. He was sent to Lithgow as a charge hand, which, according to the honorable senator's friend, is- the term applied to a foreman. The manager of the factory put him to work on the 27th October as a section hand - that is what the honorable senator's friend claimed to be - in the turret lathe section. He was allowed a couple of days to become familiar with the work, but even then he could not do the job. He was tried in the milling section, but it was found that he knew nothing about that job either. He was offered work as a fitter if he could produce evidence that he was a fitter, but he refused to do that and left the establishment on the 31st October.  His  employment at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory lasted for only four days. So much for the accusation against the management. This morning I discussed with  Mr. R.  S. Yates, secretary of the Arms, Explosives and Munition Workers Federation, the statement that union leaders had complete control of the Small Arms Factory.  Mr. Yates  gave me an emphatic denial to that charge, and said that it was not the desire of the union to usurp the functions of the management of the factory. He added that the union and all its members wished to make their best contribution to the job of winning the war, and were behind the Government 100 per cent, in its war effort. 
I regret that  Senator Foll  made such a dastardly attack upon the workmen and the management at Lithgow, without making sufficient inquiries to ascertain whether or not there was a semblance of truth in the information supplied to him. 1 hope that, in fairness to all concerned, he -will withdraw the allegations which he made. 
I inform  Senator Aylett  that the erection of flax mills, to which he referred on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last night, has been brought to the notice of the Minister for Supply and Development  (Mr. Beasley)  who is making inquiries into the matter. A reply to the honorable senator's inquiry will be furnished at the earliest possible opportunity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Honorable senators will have heard with deep regret of the death in Sydney yesterday of  a  former Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, the Honorable John Christian Watson. The late  Mr. Watson  had had a lengthy parliamentary career, which commenced when he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales as the member for Young in  1894.  He represented that constituency until June,  1901,  when he was elected to the House of Representatives for the division of Bland, New South Wales. On the abolition of that division in  1906,  he became member for the Division of South Sydney. He will be well remembered as the first leader of the 
Federal Labour party. He was Prime Minister and Treasurer from April to August,  1904.  He retired on the expiration of the third Parliament in  1910.  The late  Mr. Watson  was widely known and respected. He was for many years  president  of the National Roads and Motorists Association of New South Wales.  His  death severs one of the few associations with the first Commonwealth Parliament. 

 Mr. Watson was a personal friend of mine. We were contemporary in the work of the Labour movement, he in Parliament, I mostly outside of Parliament. He was our first leader in the Commonwealth Parliament. He had a charm of character which drew to him those with whom he was associated in all of his work. He earned, not only their admiration and respect, but also that close friendship so essential in any political party if harmony is to be achieved and maintained. He was 74 years of age, and of him it can be truly said that he served his country well with all those manifold gifts he had to bestow. On behalf of the Senate I extend to his widow and daughter . our deepest sympathy. I move - 
That the Senate expresses its profound regret at the death of the honorable John Christian Watson, a former member of the New South Wales and Commonwealth Parliaments, and Prime Minister and Treasurer of the Commonwealth, places on record its appreciation of his distinguished public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and daughter in their bereavement. 
I am sure that honorable senators generally appreciate the eloquent tribute paid by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  to the memory of the late Honorable John Christian Watson, a distinguished ex-Prime Minister of Australia. The members of the Opposition support the Minister's remarks concerning the successful and public spirited career of the late  Mr. Watson,  and join in the expression of sympathy to his widow and daughter. 

 Senator COOPER (Queensland).The members of the Country party in the Senate support the motion and desire to be associated with the sentiments expressed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings).  Iamsure that all who remember the valuable public service rendered by the late  Mr. Watson  during a distinguished career will regret to hear of ' his death. My colleagues and I join in extending to his widow and daughter our! deepest sympathy in their bereavement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Senate been drawn to a leading article ' in the  Advocate,  a newspaper published in northern Tasmania, in which it is stated that the Prime Minister had refused to appoint an economic committee to inquire into, the disabilities being suffered by Tasmania as the result of war conditions? Is that report correct? Has the Government been requested by the Government of Tasmania to appoint such a committee ? If so, what is the attitude of the Prime Minister towards the matter? 
On the 27th May last, the Tasmanian Government requested the Commonwealth Government to conduct an investigation on the lines indicated by the honorable senator. On the 1st July a question was asked in the House of Representatives as to whether that request had been granted, and the reply then given was that it was being  considered. On the 24th July the Economic and Industrial Committee of Cabinet recommended that the request be approved, and that the committee be set up. On the 30th July the Economic and Industrial Committee of Cabinet again considered the matter and recommended to the Government that the appointment of a committee on the lines previously recommended be held in abeyance. That Government was not the present Government. If any request be made to the present Government prompt and sympathetic action will, be taken with regard to it, and any statement to the contrary which has appeared in the Tasmanian press is entirely false. The blame, if any, for the delay in this matter rests upon the previous Government. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce whether he is aware that many wheat-farmers in the Moora district in Western Australia are only now receiving their authority to plant wheat, the crops of which are now nearly ready for harvesting? As many of these farmers have over-planted as the result of the delay in forwarding to them their authority to plant, will the Minister advise these wheat-farmers at the earliest possible moment what acreage they will be authorized to plant next season ? 
I shall look into the matter raised by the honorable senator and convey to him as soon as possible the information for which he has asked. 
Will the Minister for Trade and Customs make a statement in respect of the recent increases of the price of tea ? 
 by leave  - read a copy of the Ministerial statement delivered in the House of Representatives by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  on the 18th November, 1941  (vide  page 478). 

 Later: 

In view of the lengthy statement made by the Minister for Trade and Customs setting out the reasons for the increased price of tea, I should like to know if the Minister read in the Perth  Sunday Times  the report of an interview with a visitor from Ceylon who has spent a lifetime in the tea trade, in which he stated that tea-planters in Ceylon were still burning their surplus stocks of tea in order to keep up the price? If the Minister has not read that report will he undertake to do so as soon as possible, and make some inquiries to ascertain whether or not it is correct? 
Sena tor KEANE. - I have not seen the report to which the honorable senator has referred, but tea is one of the commodities concerning which all available data have been placed at my disposal by the Prices Commissioner. I shall endeavour to obtain a copy of the report, and if able to do so I shall give it full consideration, but in consonance with my remarks earlier to-night on this question, I may state that I am satisfied that the increase is -inescapable. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce indicate whether it is the intention of the  Government  to continue the apple and. pear acquisition scheme on the same basis as during the 1940-41 season ? If not. what changes, if any, are proposed ? 
The Government has not yet reached a decision in regard to that matter, but I hope to be able to make a statement on the subject before the Parliament goes into recess. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development say whether it is proposed to install special  coal-conveying  machinery at the coal dump at Newcastle? If so, what is the estimated cost? Before embarking on this proposal, is the Minister prepared to receive alternative suggestions from interested bodies in the north in regard to a more efficient and less costly system? Will the Minister give an assurance that this work will not be proceeded with until interested parties have had an opportunity to meet him and place their views before him? 
Special mechanical devices were to be installed at Newcastle, and the previous Government took certain steps in regard to the matter. I am not in a position to state what amount of money is involved. The subject is still under consideration, and I assure the honorable senator that if representation be made to the appropriate Minister such representations will receive sympathetic consideration. Meanwhile no action will be taken by the Government. 
Can the Leader of the Senate say why  Mr. W.  C. Taylor, who was eligible for service in the Australian Imperial Force or the Royal Australian Air Force, was appointed to the vacancy on the Commonwealth Bank Board ? Were there not many soldiers who served in the last war, with banking and commercial experience, who could have been considered for this appointment? Is  Mr. Taylor's  appointment an indication of the Government's policy towards returned soldiers of the present war? Could not  Mr. Taylor's  appointment have been of a temporary nature pending the return of a suitable person from overseas war service? Does the Government realize that it has set a very bad example to State governments and private employers by appointing a person eligible for active-service to a sheltered position when recruiting is at such a low ebb? 
In answer to the honorable senator's long list of discourteously phrased questions-- 
It is my privilege to answer questions relating to matters under my control, and my duty to answer them as I think fit. I repeat that in reply to the honorable senator's long list of discourteously phrased questions, one of which was distinctly insulting, members of the Commonwealth Bank Board appointed by the Government of which the honorable senator was a supporter, were not returned soldiers. I say further, that the actions of this Government so far-- 
Senate in order in implying that you, sir, are unable to determine whethera question is of an insulting nature? 
In asking or answering questions honorable senators are not entitled to make speeches. Questions should be couched in courteous language. 
I remind honorable senators that the Minister is replying to a question and is entitled to be heard without interruption. 
Is the Leader of the Senate aware that Professor Giblin, a member of the Commonwealth Bank Board, is a returned soldier with a very distinguished war record. 
Can the Leader of the Senate say whether  Sir George  Pearce, who has just been reappointed to the Commonwealth Grants Commission, is a returned soldier, and if not, were any complaints concerning his reappointment made by the Opposition? 
I understand that  Sir George  Pearce is not a returned soldier, but I have no definite information on the subject. I have not heard any complaint from honorable senators opposite concerning his appointment, and no complaints will be made by me. 
In view of the  recent press statement that the price of matches is to be increased to1s. a dozen, has the Minister for Trade and Customs any statement to make to the Senate regarding the reason for this increase of the price of a commodity which is used by all sections of the community? 
The increase of 21/2d. a dozen in the retail price of safety matches throughout the Commonwealth, from the 14th November, 1941, was necessitated by an increased excise duty of 2s. a gross, and sales tax of 10 per cent. or approximately 21/2d. a gross. Manufacturers have been permitted to pass on only the additional excise of 2s. a gross paid by them, without any additional profit.Wholesalers are permitted to sell at an increased price of 2s.1d. a gross. The gross profit margin of wholesalers is below the rate prevailing at the outbreak of war. Retailers' margins have been increased by 21/2d. a gross on sales of dozens, but have been materially decreased where sales are made in single boxes, as no increase has been permitted of the price of1d. for single boxes. Since the outbreak of war, on account of increases of manufacturing costs, 3s. 6d. a gross excise duty, and the increase of sales tax from 5 per cent. to 10 per cent., the total costs to retailers have increased by over 80 per cent. Retailers' margins have been considerably reduced since prewar days. 
The statement was made by me and I stand by it. The nature of the action to be taken will be divulged later. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Army aware that considerable inconvenience is being caused, and complaints made owing to the insufficient quantity of equipment supplied to those who have volunteered to serve in the Home Defence 
Force? Will he bring the matter to the notice of the Minister for the Army, in order that the supply of necessary equipment to the members of that force may be expedited? 
Inquiry will be made into the matter, and a reply to the honorable senator's question will be furnished to him. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer inform the Senate what grants, if any, have been made to State governments during the last three years as Christmas gifts for the unemployed ? 
The information that I have is that, during the last three years, when Governments anti-Labour were in power, no grants were made by the Commonwealth Government by way of Christmas gifts to the unemployed. As the result of a question placed on the notice-paper this evening by a member of the Opposition the matter will now be considered by the Government. 
I lay on the table the following paper: - 
Taxation on ex-Australian Incomes - Report of Special Committee. 
The recommendations were unanimous, and the Government has decided to adopt them. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What are the total advertising costs in connexion with the sale of war bonds and war savings certificates to 1st November, 1941? 
Is it the intention of the Government to continue advertising on the same lines? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
Expenditure on advertising and publicity in connexion with loans raised for war purposes since the outbreak of war amounts to £43,514. This does not include the loan just closed for which this information is notyet  available. There is no paid advertising in connexion with war savings certificates. 
Yes. 
What is the total amount receivedfrom the private banks for their sales of war savings certificates to 1st November, 1941? 
Is it a fact that the method of paying for the war savings certificates which they sell is by sending their own cheques to the Treasurer? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - 
Sales of war savings certificates through the private banks to 31st October, 1941, amounted to £10,848,000 (face value). 
Settlement for these sales are made with the Commonwealth Bank by cheque. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that subscribers of large amounts to the war loan, when applying direct to the Commonwealth Bank, attach to their applications lists of brokers with advice that such brokers are to be paid brokerage, notwithstanding that such brokers have no connexion with the application? 
Is it a fact that the Australian Mutual Provident Society follows this practice? 
Enquiry is being made, and a reply will be furnished as goon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the advisability of making public the full facts concerning the help, in addition to that rendered by the armed forces, given to Russia in her glorious struggle against Hitlerism? 
If so, will the Government give the information as goon us possible? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer :  -  1 and 2. The Commonwealth Government is aware of the necessity for rendering all possible assistance to Russia in the present conflict and every endeavouris being made within our capacity to meet the needs of that country with as little delay as possible. The Government has decided to supply, at Commonwealth expense, items of medical equipment required by Russia of which a surplus existsin Australia.It will also recognize public appeals for funds to provide other items of medical supplies to be purchased abroad. Permission will be given for money so raised to be sent outside Australia: With a view to meeting Russian requirements of raw materials, foodstuffs,  &amp;c,  the Commonwealth Government is in close collaboration with the Government of the United Kingdom. It is actually a question of utilizing transport facilities to the best advantage. In the present emergency, the Soviet Governmentis anxious that all the available shipping bo reserved for the carriage of urgently required military equipment and commodities of direct war importance. Shortly after the outbreak of hostilities between Russia and Germany, the authorities at Moscow consulted the United Kingdom Government and the Government of the United States of America, and indicated that there were special commodities which they desired to procure as early as possible from the British Empire or the United States of America. In response to that appeal, prompt action was taken to meet the more pressing Soviet requirements. Included in the early shipments were consignments of wool and lead from Australia. The Soviet Government has maintained close consultation with the United Kingdom Government, acting on behalf of the British Empire, and the Government of the United States of America. This three-party collaboration, which was extended in the Moscow Conference, has been an important factor in co-ordinating Empire and American plans for assisting Russia. Such co-ordination is essential, of course, to ensure that the requirements of the Soviet Government are supplied from the readiest source without wasteful duplication, and with proper regard to the demands of the Empire's own war effort. The Commonwealth Government has been kept informed of developments, and the Soviet authorities were advised at an early date regarding Australia's potentialities as a source of supply. They indicated, however, that details of Russia's needs would be communicated to London in order to facilitate co-ordinated action. It is hoped that there will be further shipments of Australian produce to Russia in the near future, depending on the order of urgency in which various commodities are required by the Soviet Government, and the disposition of shipping. To assist in connexion with the transport of materials to Russia, the Commonwealth Government, in co-operation with the Government of New South Wales, has arranged to make available locomotives and trucks for Iran as follows: -63 main-line locomotives; 835 wagons. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What action has the Government taken with regard to the agreement proposed to be finalised by its predecessors in connexion with the development of the Lakes Entrance oil-field? 
SenatorFRASER. - The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following, answer :  - 
The Government is now completing a detailed examination of proposals involving the development' of the Lakes Entrance oil-field. and it is anticipated that it will be possible for it to announce its decision in this regard at anearly date. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
In view of the disturbed feelings of various local government bodies concerned with the route to be followed by the East-West road now under construction, will the Minister obtain for the information of the Senate the latest progress report on this road, and also definite information as to the route to be followed ? 
The route followed is that of the track from Penong through Eucla, Balladonia and Frazers to Norseman, connecting the railhead at Penong to the Coolgardie-Esperance Railway. Completion of construction work may be expected in December. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
What progress has been made inthe erection of the munitions factory at Welshpool, Western Australia? 
What is the estimated cost of this factory? 3.When is it anticipated that this factory willbe in production? 
The Minister for Munitionshas supplied the following answers :  - 
The buildings are proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that they will be completed by the time the plant is available for installation. 2.Esti mated cost is £450,000. 
It is hoped that deliveries of plain and subsequent installation will enable operations to be commenced by April. 1942. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, that Australian prisoners of war in Germany and Italy are compelledto do hard work, whereas German and Italian prisoners in Australia are given a life of leisure? 
Is it the intention of the Government, to utilize, the labour of prisoners of war to the extent permitted by international convention? 
ThePrime Minister has supplied the following answers :  - 
Under the provisions of the Geneva International Convention, prisoners of war may be required to work during captivity.No definite information is yet available to the Commonwealth Government in respect of the conditions of employment of Australian prisoners of war in Germany and Italy, but reports on that subject have been requested from the appropriate authorities overseas, particularly with reference to recent published statements that Australian prisoners of war are being employed under harsh conditions at Benghazi. German and Italian prisoners of war are not given a life of leisure at their camps in Australia. Large numbers of them are required to perform a wide variety of work in connexion with the maintenance and development of their camps. 
The matter is under consideration. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Is any report available concerning the electric motor car invented by  Mr. J.  Bowker. of South Australia? 
Has the matter had the consideration of the Government? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: -  1 and 2. Commonwealth technical officer? have investigated  Mr. Bowker's  invention, the production of which would necessitate the diversion of materials required for the munitions programme. The report of the investigators indicates that the car has not sufficient special merit to warrant this procedure. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the advisability of insertinga clause in every contract entered into compelling the successful tenderer to finance his contract through the Commonwealth Bank ? 
The Treasurer has supplied  the  following answer: - 
The method of financing their business is a matter  for  the contractors themselves. Where, however, it becomes necessary for the purpose of ensuring essential war production, for the Commonweal th to assist in the provision of finance  for  defence contracts, such additional finance willbe arranged through the  Commonwealth  Bank. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform senators whether Messrs. Ratliff and Thomas, who were interned for subversive activities, and have recently been released, were so released on the advice of the Government's military advisers? 
If not, will the Government make available to senators the papers dealing with the internment of these men. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
and 2. The release of these two men was decided upon by the Government on their each entering into a bond by the terms of which each is bound over in the sum of £50, with a surety in the sum of £100, given by the  president,  assistant secretary respectively of the Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales, that he will observe and comply with the National Security Act and the regulations thereunder. Each of these two men also signed the following undertaking: - I believe that it is the duty of all Australian citizens to work for national unity and a maximum war effort to secure victory over Nazi-ism and Fascism as early as possible. I undertake to assist in the development of this duty, and I will refrain from all acts which might impede the war effort in any way. Furthermore, I will do all in my power as an individual to ensure the speedy conclusion of the war with victory for the British Commonwealth of Nations and her Allies." The Government was satisfied that the stand taken by Russia in this war had completely altered the former attitude of Thomas and Ratliff and that observance of the undertaking, which they fully offered to give, had removed the cause of the complaint which led to their internment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
What was the cost to the Government of the Recruiting Train operating in New South Wales for the month ending 30th September, 1941? 
What was the number of recruits  obtained from the Country Districts visited during the same period? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 

<graphic href="169332194111194_7_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="169332194111194_7_1.jpg"></graphic>

.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to implement that portion of the Government's proposals in relation to sales tax which concerns the re-grouping of goods into the different schedules to which the varying rates of sales tax apply. The complete proposals may be briefly stated as follows: - 
Those goods which are at present exempt will retain their exemption.Some items will be added to the exemption schedule. (2), Most of the goods now taxed at 5 per cent. will be taxed at 10 per cent. An exception is being made of drugs, medicines and surgical instruments and appliances, certain goods used in the fishing and other primary industries, and goods for  use  in universities and schools. 
The 15 per cent. rate will be increased to 20 per cent. This increase of rate is being effected by amendments of the acts fixing the rates of tax. 
The schedule of goods formerly taxed at 15 per cent., but now to be taxed at 20 per cent., is to be added to by the transfer of certain items from the 10 per cent. schedule. 
All of the goods in the existing 5 per cent. schedule are goods which, although taxable originally, were exempt in the period immediately prior to November, 1940.When these goods were brought back into the taxable field last year, they were taxed at 5 per cent. only, and not at the normal rate of 10 per cent. With the increasing need for more revenue, it is now found impossible to continue that preference, ana it is proposed that, with some exceptions which will be explained later, the 5 per cent. schedule will be incorporated in the 10 per cent. schedule. The exceptions referred to are - 
Drugs, medicines and surgical instruments. 
Pumping and other water and irrigation equipment for use in agricultural industries. 
Saddlery and harness; iron or steel wire of gauges 6 to 14; and nets, netting, hooks and such like equipment for use in the fishing industry. 
Goods for use in universities and schools. 
The above-mentioned goods will remain at 5 per cent. until revenue requirements have so far eased as to permit their total exemption. Certain surgical appliances for use by persons with grievous physical afflictions have, however, been exempted. These appliances are - artificial eyes; artificial limbs; abdominal belts; crutches; invalid chairs, carriages and tricycles; surgical boots, braces and irons; trusses and umbilical belts. I am confident that the preference which has been accorded to these items will not be challenged for, without exception, they have claims for exemption beyond the normal. 
For the sake of consistency with the policy of exempting plant and machinery used by primary producers, item 6 of the 5 per cent. schedule, insofar as it relates to windmills, pumps, tanks, troughing, &amp;c, for use in the agricultural industry, is being transferred to the exempt list. Maps for use in schools are also being exempted. 
Certain goods now included in the 10 per cent. schedule are to. be included in the schedule of goods which will bear tax at 20 per cent. The items to be so transferred are set out in detail in a statement which is being circulated for the information of honorable senators. The sale value of goods in this list is estimated at £6,500,000 per annum. 
The existing law provides for the exemption of goods sold retail by a person whose total average sales of all goods does not, or would not, in the opinion of the commissioner, exceed £1,000 per annum. This exemption was provided to enable small manufacturers to escape the burden of sales tax and, at the same time, to free the administration from the task of obtaining returns from a large number, of persons conducting small businesses. The exemption has been well justified in the past. However, with the increasing rates, taxpayers whose average sales are slightly over £1,000 per annum complain that an undue advantage is obtained by taxpayers whose average annual sales are a little under £1,000 per annum, and that, consequently, business is being diverted from taxpayers because of the better price quotations which can be obtained from exempt manufacturers. It is proposed, therefore, to exempt only those manufacturers whose total turnover does not exceed £700. 
The opportunity has been token to correct an anomaly which has been revealed since the creation of the 15 per cent. schedule in November, 1940. In that schedule, baskets were included without distinction as to the kind of basket, and, therefore, tax at 15 per cent. was charged on all baskets. The fact that many types of baskets are used for industrial and commercial purposes was overlooked. With the proposed increase of the rate to 20 per cent., this anomaly, if not corrected, would be aggravated. It is, therefore, proposed that the rate of tax on baskets of a kind used for commercial or industrial purposes should be reduced from. 15 per cent. to 10 per cent. 
The opportunity has also been taken to provide for the exemption of the following three items: - 
Producer-gas units for use in the production of fuel for land transport vehicles, including tractors, and parts and accessories therefor; 
Goods for use exclusively in airraid precaution services for the protection of the general public, or of property publicly owned ; 
Uniforms for members of the Australian Army Nursing Services, Voluntary Aid Detachments called up for full-time service with the Army, the Australian Women's Army Service, the Women's Australian Air Force, and such other organizations as are prescribed. 
TheCommissioner of Taxation was authorized by the previous Government to anticipate the exemption of producergasunits from the 2nd June, 1941, in pursuance of its policy of fostering the use of substitute fuels for petrol. The present Government endorses that policy and submits the proposal for legislative sanction. 
As regards goods for air-raid precaution, it is proposed that the exemption shall operate as from the 1st February. 1939, that being the earliest date upon which such goods are known to have been purchased by public authorities undertaking such services. The refunds to be granted under this proposal will not amount to a large sum. 
The exemption proposed in respect of uniforms for the various women's organizations is designed to operate from the 1st October, 1938, that being the commencing date of item 74 C ii, which exempts uniforms sold to members of the Defence Forces. The original exemption has been interpreted as covering uniforms, &amp;c, purchased by the Australian Army Nursing Service in the belief that the members of that service were, in fact, members of the Military Forces of the Commonwealth. It has now been discovered that, technically, that is not so. The amendment ratifies the interpretation which has been adopted. 
When all of the adjustments proposed above have been effected, it is expected that the extra revenue to be obtained from sales tax in the current financial year will amount to £1,900,000. For a full year, the amount will be about £3,300,000. I trust that honorable senators will not regard the present as a suitable opportunity to press claims for the exemption of particular goods, but will, on the contrary, await the time when Australia's commitments for the war effort have become less pressing. 
For the convenience of honorable senators in their consideration of this measure, I have had prepared a statement showing in much greater detail than has been possible in this speech, the effect of the proposed changes. Because of the length of the statement, it has not been considered necessary to repeatthe particulars of items making up the existing 5 per cent. and 15 per cent. schedules of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1940. A study of the statement in conjunction with that act will give to honorable senators a clear picture of the details of the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos. 1 to 9) 1941. 
Bills received from the House of Representatives. 
Motion (by  Senator Collings)  put - 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the questions with regard to the several stages for the passage through the Senate of all or several of the Sales Tax Bills Nos. 1 to 9 being put in one motion, at each stage, and the consideration of all or several of such bills together in committee of the whole. 
There being an absolute majority of the members of the Senate present, and no dissentient voice, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended. 
Bills (on motion by  Senator Keane)  read a first time. 
.  - I move - 
That the bills be now read a second time. 
The only change in rates of sales tax proposed is that the present 15 per cent., which applies to goods included in the third schedule of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1940, be increased to 20 per cent. The rate of 5 pei' cent, on goods which are considered to deserve special consideration, will be retained, but the goods to which that concession will apply will be reduced to the bare minimum. It was hoped that it might be possible to dispense entirely with the 5 per cent, rate, and thus simplify the work of merchants in classifying goods. That, however, has been found impracticable in view of the inclusion in the 5 per cent, schedule of drugs and. medicines, goods used to some extent by primary producers, and goods for use in schools. The Government is unwilling to increase the rate on these goods and, consequently, they will continue to be taxed at, 5 per cent. However, the retention of these goods in the 5 per cent, schedule will not prevent a large measure of simplification being achieved, because they are of a kind that follow a fairly clearly defined course from manufacturer to consumer, and only rarely become intermingled with ordinary goods of commerce. It is proposed, also, to retain the general rate of 10 per cent., but the field to which that rate will apply will be somewhat enlarged by transfers of goods at present, bearing the rate of 5 per cent. Particulars of the goods so transferred are shown in the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill now before the Senate. The rate to be applied to goods in  the  third schedule is to be increased from 15 per cent, to 20 per cent. Honorable senators will know that in this field are goods which are estimated to serve the less urgent needs of the community. The list has been carefully compiled in the light of present needs. As is customary when changes in sales tax are suggested, it is proposed that the new rates shall operate from the clay following the announcement of the Government's budget proposals. This course i.? designed to prevent the dislocation of trade which would occur if there were any delay between the date of the announcement of the Government's policy and the date upon which that policy became effective. The new rates will be effective on and from the 30th October, 1941. There are provisions in the existing law which fully protect vendors of goods who, as from that date, pay tax at the higher rates now proposed. When the bills become law they will be empowered to recover the additional amount of tax from any customers who have not accepted liability therefor. The new rates will apply to goods imported on and after the 30th October, 1941, as well as to all taxable transactions or operations effected or carried out on and after that date. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator MoLeay)  adjourned. 
.- I wish to refer briefly to a matter which I raised on the adjournment of the Senate last Wednesday, namely, the desirability of taking immediate steps to act upon the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Rural Industries in connexion with the building of flax milk. The remarks of  Senator Herbert  Hays, whose speech followed mine, might make it appear that my comments were scarcely warranted. Although £500,000 of the taxpayers' money has been expended in the establishment of this industry, the previous Government intended to set up another big monopoly to handle the whole of the flax produced in this country. It will be remembered that the previous Government signed a contract which automatically gave an option to one company to establish a monopoly over the whole of the flax/ industry of Australia after the ivar. Two members of the Flax Production Committee which negotiated the agreement, are financially interested in that company. This matter has been fully probed by the Joint Committee on Rural Industries. It is strange that the Flax Production Committee, which was established by the previous Government to handle this season's flax crop, has completely failed to carry out its task in spite of the fact that nine months ago it was able to estimate the yield which it would be called upon to handle. Last week I urged the Government to see that every endeavour was made to ensure that the flax mills were ready in time to handle this season's crop. Approximately £500,000 has been invested in plant and machinery and an additional £1,000,000 will be required for the processing of the crop.  Senator Herbert  Hays stated that the  chairman  of the Flax Production Committee had given an assurance to the Joint Committee on Rural Industries that the mills would be ready in time ; but those honorable senators who read the newspapers will have seen that tenders are only now being called for the erection of some of the mills. In some instances the tenders do not close until the 25th November. In some districts the Flax Production Committee has not yet decided what type of mill is to be erected in spite of the fact that the crops are almost ready to be harvested. Even in the latest districts the crops will be harvested early in January. If tenders are only now being called, how can the mills possibly be ready to handle this season's crop? The Flax Production Committee has not yet even completed the processing of last season's crop in spite of the fact that the crops were a failure, only 17,000 tons being produced from 20,000 acres. The crop this year is estimated at 90,000 tons. The point I make is that if the Flax Production Committee is not prepared to get on with the job entrusted to it and have the mills and processing plants ready for the coming harvest it  is  the responsibility of the Minister to replace it by some more competent body. If the  chairman  of the committee is not competent to carry out the duties allotted to him he should be displaced. Probably had he been given a free hand the construction of these mills would not have been delayed. The Minister should make inquiries and ensure that everything possible is being done to expedite the erection of the mills. 
 The honorable senator is not satisfied with the inquiries conducted by the Joint Committee on Rural Industries? 
I urge the Minister to give consideration to the problem of providing labour for harvesting not only flax, but also other crops. That problem will exist throughout the Commonwealth, because on present indications there will be a grave shortage of rural labour during the coming harvest. In this connexion I refer to the following statement made recently by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr. Ward)  : - 
Where primary producers have complained to him about labour shortage, he had asked for information about hours of work, wages. and living conditions. If primary producers want mcn to work on the land, they should ensure that the standards were equal to those of other industries. 
I agree with that statement. At the same time, however, I point out that owing to the low prices ruling for primary products some of our rural industries cannot afford to pay the equivalent of the basic wage. The Government itself must grapple with this problem. The shortage of labour for harvesting will obviously be accentuated by reason of the fact that our primary industries generally cannot afford to pay the equivalent of the basic wage; but one method of dealing with the problem is to ensure that those employed in those industries are given the equivalent of the basic wage. Of course, the further problem of guaranteeing higher prices for commodities in order to enable primary industries to pay such a wage and standard working conditions must then be dealt with. Those two problems call for urgent attention. 
Another matter of vital importance to Australia at the moment is the shortage of aluminium supplies. At present, we import ingots which are rolled in this country by Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited. In view of the gravity of the position in the Near East, it is obvious that our import trade is in danger of serious interruption. Should our supplies of aluminium be cut off, our production of aircraft and other war material will be brought to a standstill. At the same time, we have the raw materials and the equipment necessary for the provision of the finished article. All that is needed to overcome this problem is for the Government to establish the industry. The previous Government was asked to establish it, but as it was more concerned with fostering and protecting monopolies, it failed to do anything in that direction. Had it done so, it would have acted contrary to the interests of Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited. I point out that this company is a subsidiary of the combine operating throughout the world which is interested in the manufacture of aluminium and magnesium. The Government must not allow this industry to become the preserve of this monopoly, but should establish and operate it under Government control. 
It is not only a war industry, but also a post-war industry. Supplies of the raw material for .the production of aluminium are available in abundance in Tasmania, where the requisite electric power for treatment works is also to be had comparatively cheaply. I urge the Government to ensure that this industry does not fall into the hands of the combine of which Australian Aluminium. Company Proprietary Limited is a subsidiary. Like the Australian company, the subsidiaries of that combine in every other country masquerade as small individual concerns, but they are interwoven with Alcoa, which in the past has been the main suppliers of aluminium to our present enemies. In order to enable honorable senators to realize the ramification of this combine, I shall give a brief history of Australian .Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited. In November, 1938, a company was registered under the name of British Aluminium (Australia) Proprietary Limited, and  Sir Colin  Fraser and  Mr. A.  J. 0. Bult, of 360 Collinsstreet, Melbourne - Collins House - were the first directors. In 1939 the name of the company was altered to Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited with its registered office at 360 Collins-street, Melbourne - Collins House. At that time it was announced that onethird of the capital was being supplied by the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Canada, which is owned and controlled by the Aluminium Company of America - Alcoa - and the British Aluminium Company Limited. A search at the Titles Office revealed that, in April 1940, the following were the shareholders : Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited, Metal Manufacturers Limited, British Aluminium Company Limited, Aluminium Limited. Montreal, Canada, Aluminium Limited, Geneva, Switzerland. 
The first two companies held approximately one-third of the capital, British Aluminium Company Limited held onethird and the balance was held by Aluminium Limited Montreal and Aluminium Limited, Geneva. Both of these companies are subsidiaries of the American Aluminium Company. Aluminium Limited, Geneva, is the organization through which the combine carries on its European business in Norway, Germany,  Italy  and Japan. The directors of the Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited, in June, 1940, were -  Sir Alexander  Stewart,  Sir Colin  Fraser, John Seymour Teulon,  William Sydney Robinson, Lawson Greene Bash, Norman Warren Waterhouse,  Sir Walter  MassyGreene, Leslie Vickery Waterhouse, Henry St. John Somerset, and Aubrey John Clifton Bull.  Sir Walter  MassyGreene, Henry St. John Somerset and Aubrey John Clifton Bult were alternative directors. Lawson Greene Bash is an American citizen, whose address is given as Montreal. Together with Norman Warren Waterhouse he represents the Aluminium Company of America (Alcoa) interests. The remaining directors represent, between them,  the Electrolytic Zinc and the British Aluminium interests. A further search at the Titles Office on the 30th June, 1941, indicated that Aluminium Limited, Geneva, had disappeared from the shareholders' register. Apparently, this shareholding had been transferred to Aluminium Limited of Canada. The present shareholders of the company are - Electrolytic Zinc Company Australasia Limited and Metal Manufacturers Limited, holding 150,000 £1 shares, British Aluminium Company Limited, holding 150,000 £1 shares; and Aluminium Limited, Montreal, Canada, holding 150,000 £1 shares. The directors were the same as at June, 1940, with the exception that W. S. Robinson had retired from the board and  Sir Walter  Massy-Greene, who was previously an alternate director, was appointed a full director. The articles  of association provide that two directors shall be nominated by British Aluminium Company Limited, two by Aluminium Limited, Canada, and two by Electrolytic Zinc Company and Metal Manufacturers Limited. 
It will be seen, therefore, from the shareholding that the Australian Aluminium Company Proprietary Limited as at present constituted is controlled, so far as capital and the directors are concerned, by non-Australian interests. Both the British- Aluminium Company Limited and Aluminium Limited, Canada, which is owned by Alcoa, were members of the original aluminium cartel which was formed in 1904 when the price of aluminium had fallen to the lowest on record, namely, £60 per ton. They were also members of the second syndicate, or cartel, which was formed in 1909. On the outbreak of the great war the metal was selling for about £85 a ton. During the Great War it went . to £220 a ton, and a very large development in the American and Canadian production was -financed out of war profits. The price did not fall, below £100 a ton until 1922, and it was maintained roughly at that figure until the outbreak of war in 1939, when it was pegged at £110 a ton by the British Ministry of Supply. The aluminium cartel is world-wide and operates in all of the aluminium producing countries with the exception of the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. Even in Nazi Germany, the Aluminium Company Limited of Geneva held large interests, particularly through interlocks with the Germany I.G.  Farbenindustrie.  which, of course, is the great German dye, chemical and metal trust. It can be seen, therefore, that the controlling interests in the Australian Aluminium Company Limited represent two of the oldest and strongest individual members of Alcoa, the great international aluminium combine. I bring this matter forward because, if the aluminium industry in this country be not protected and operated as a national concern, sooner or later it will automatically find its way into the hands of this great combine. The Government should not be forced to depend for ite aluminium supplies upon an organization such as the Australian Aluminium Company Limited, some of the directors of which represent the great aluminium combine of America. The controllers of Alcoa were indicted recently for subversive activities, namely, the holding up of supplies. In answer to a question which I asked in this chamber I was informed that the people concerned had been cleared of these charges, but I am not satisfied with that reply because the inquiry into the metal industries in America is still proceeding. Unless the aluminium industry in Australia be controlled by the Government, it will ultimately pass into the hands of people such as those who have been indicted for subversive activities in America. In order to ensure continuity of supplies of aluminium, regardless of interruptions of shipping on our trade routes, I urge the Government, before it is too late, and before our war effort i-' hampered through lack of supplies, to take immediate steps to establish this industry in Australia. "We have the raw material and men capable of doing the job. An adequate supply of aluminium is necessary for aircraft production. Not only would we save the freight on the aluminium that is now brought from overseas, but also we should save the £4 10s. a ton which is going out of this country to purchase bauxite overseas. We have huge deposits of bauxite in two or three, if not four, States. In addition, to the large deposits known to exist in Queensland and New South Wales, other extensive deposits have been discovered in Tasmania. They have been tested for quality and, to some extent, for quantity. If the Government requires information in that regard, it is obtainable from the Registrar of Mines,  Mr. Williams.  He is the only man who is in a position to give the Copper an'l Bauxite Committee the information which it desires when it visits Tasmania. The Government should explore every possible avenue with a view to establishing this industry in Australia before it is too late. 
As my time has expired and I do not wish to ask for an extension, I shall leave several other matters to which I intended to make reference, to other honorable senators. 
I consider it fair to compare this budget with that brought down by the Fadden Government, and in the light of such a comparison, I submit that this budget cannot be regarded as an improvement on that presented by the previous Government. In any case, there is not sufficient difference between the two budgets to warrant the defeat of the Fadden Government. The Fadden budget should have been debated on its merits, and, had that been done, I have no doubt but that it would have been passed with perhaps a few amendments. However, it was not debated on its merits, but with the object of displacing the Government. Even the honorable member who was chiefly responsible for the Fadden Government's defeat had very little fault to find with the budget. Whatever grievances he harboured had little relation to the budget. The defeat of the Fadden Government was not brought .about because of any defects which it contained. Both the Fadden Government and the Menzies Government gave splendid service to the people of Australia. They laid the foundation of a war effort in this country, which has not 'been surpassed by any other nation with a similar population. Visitors from overseas invariably remark on our splendid achievements, whether in relation to the recruiting of an army for the defence of this country - our home forces to-day are incomparably better than ever before - the despatching of an army overseas to fight the Empire's battle, the making of munitions, or the building up of a navy and an air force. In every way the Menzies and Fadden Governments did well, and they dad not deserve the treatment which they received. However, whatever differences of opinion may exist in politics, there is no difference of opinion as to the imperative necessity to make a supreme war effort, and to fight on till victory is achieved. That victory will be achieved there can be no doubt, and when that, supreme aim has been accomplished, any differences of opinion which then exist can be dealt with. However, that should not prevent us from criticizing what is now being done by the Government, provided that our criticism is of a constructive character. The object of the Fadden budget was to raise large sums of money by means of heavy taxation on large incomes, somewhat smaller impositions on lower incomes, and by means of post-war credits. However, that balance has now been altered, and the Labour Government proposes to increase unduly the taxation on high incomes. I should like to make it clear that I am not speaking on behalf of the rich taxpayers. I am concerned only with the interests of the country as a whole. Under this budget the people on the lower income ranges are to make no additional contribution by means of direct taxation. Whilst no one can object to the principle of placing the burden of taxation upon the shoulders of those best able to bear it, the increases now proposed are altogether excessive. It must be remembered that taxation can be increased to such a degree that it will detract from incentive and therefore destroy progress and initiative. The result is stagnation. Because of the income tax proposals in this budget it will not be worth while certain people continuing to make money. Taxation on large incomes is to go so high as 200d. in the £1. That imposition, coupled with State taxation, will create &amp; state of affairs in which there will be no incentive for certain individuals to do their best in the interests of the advancement of the country. Cases have been cited where the combined taxes on high incomes are over 20s. in the £1, and the taxpayer would be better off if he earned a more moderate income. In some cases, high taxation will impose considerable hardship. Most people on large incomes pay heavy life assurance premiums, and in some instances the result of these impositions will be that taxpayers will be unable to continue to meet their assurance commitments. The adverse effect of that will be appreciated when it is remembered that a good deal of our loan money comes from life assurance companies. The deduction for income tax purposes of assurance premiums paid by people in the lower income groups should be extended to those in receipt of higher incomes. The Government would probably lose very little if that concession were extended in the direction I have suggested. 
There is a tendency on the part of many people to look upon all companies as rich enterprises. Actually, the majority of them are nothing of the kind. They contain many small shareholders, and when a company is taxed, the effects of the tax are passed on to its shareholders. An exemption of 4 per cent. is not enough. Heavy company taxation means lower dividends, and many people, who receive dividends of perhaps only £5 or £10 occasionally, will suffer. When people invest money in a company there is an element of speculation in their investment, and they should be allowed a fair return on their money. I ask the Government to consider this matter thoroughly. The proposed tax will be applicable to mining companies as well as industrial companies, and I should like to speak of alluvial tin-mining companies in particular. It is possible to estimate with a great deal of accuracy the quantity of tin that is in an alluvial mine. Those who invest their money in such enterprises should be enabled to get a return of their capital during the life of the mine and also a fair return for their investment. Tin will soon become a scarce commodity. If tinned plate is manufactured in Australia after the war, as it probably will be, Australia will hardly be able to meet its own requirements of that commodity. The development of tin mines should be encouraged, but we cannot expect people to risk their money in mining propositions, in which the operating costs are high, unless they have a reasonable chance of getting their money back, and a fair return on their capital. There is a great difference between industrial companies and mining companies. The capital of textile companies remains intact and after the war those companies will no doubt be able to continue operations successfully; but many tin mines have a life of only seven or eight years. 
They can write off certain depreciation for machinery and the like, but they wish to be able to make provision to pay back the shareholders' capital to them during the comparatively short life of the mines, as well as a reasonable profit on account of the speculative nature of the enterprise. They are entitled to this. I shall be glad to make all necessary information regarding this matter available to the Government, or to inform it as to the source from which it may be obtained. 
Little fault can be found with the principle that the highest taxes should be borne by those who are best able to bear the burden, but we should not remove all incentive to enterprise. Therefore, I consider that the Government has made a mistake in relieving to too great a degree the lower-paid sections of the community of income tax. This is an all-in war, and everybody in the community should contribute according to his means, to the cost of the war. In the Fadden budget it was not proposed to tax persons on the lower incomes very drastically, but they were to be called upon to contribute a certain sum of money for the purpose of creating postwar credits. This was merely a scheme of deferred pay, such as has been adopted in the remuneration of members of the fighting services. That seemed to me to be a sound and sensible proposal, and I regret that the present Government has not adopted it. Money is being expended throughout Australia at present at a high rate. At the Melbourne Cup race meeting £400,000 passed through the totalisator, and it would be absurd to deny that a great deal of that money could have been diverted to the war effort. In what better way could it have been used than as a loan to the Government? The bulk of the national income of Australia is earned by persons receiving less than £8 a week. The annual income of those in receipt of under £400 a year has been calculated at £560,000,000 out of the total income of £800,000,000. I believe that if the present figures were taken out the total income would amount to about £900,000,000 or £1,000,000,000, and that the greatest increase would be seen in respect of the incomes of persons in receipt of less than £400 a year.  We  know that the average Australian, is liberal in his expenditure, and will not save money unless compulsion is brought to bear upon him. Where one man will save money, half a dozen will spend it unwisely. The people are spending so freely nowadays that it is often very difficult, if not impossible, for one to gain entrance to some of the large shops at certain periods of the day. 
The fact that the war loan has been fully subscribed is a matter for congratulation. 
I do not go so far as to say that, but, since it was doubtful a week or two ago whether the amount asked for would be fully subscribed, the public is to be congratulated on the success of the loan. I point out to the Government that probably six months will elapse before the taxation authorities will be able to get in the revenue to be raised under the new proposals. Prudent individuals and wellmanaged companies will no doubt have made some provision to meet the heavy taxes anticipated by them; therefore, large sums of money are lying idle in Australia on that account. I know persons who have relatively large sums in reserve to enable them to pay their taxes, and who would have been glad to put that money into the loan that has just closed. They were afraid to do so as they had no idea of the amount of tax that they would have to pay. I suggest that some scheme should be devised whereby that money could be used in the war effort. Although details of the next loan have not yet been announced, I understand that subscriptions to it would be accepted now. Subscribers to the last loan had the option of lending their money for fifteen years at 3£ per cent, or for five years at 2£ per cent. I believe that if there had been a third option, by which they could have left their money at call, the rate of interest to be 2 per cent., those who were holding large sums in reserve with which to pay their income tax would have placed that money in the war loan. Such an arrangement would merely have been an extension of the system of issuing war savings certificates, which enable contributors to get their money back at any time. If a taxpayer had £1,000 in reserve for the payment of his taxes, and could put it temporarily into a war loan, he might in the meantime discover some other way to meet his tax commitment and the £1,000 would be left in the loan. I make this suggestion in the hope that it may be useful to the Government in floating the next loan. 

 Senator ARNOLD (New South Wales) £9.57]. - With only a few weeks in which to prepare the budget, and without the ministerial experience and departmental knowledge of its predecessors, the Government can be proud of the budget that the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  has placed before the Parliament. The first item on the expenditure side relates to increased  pay for members of the fighting  services. The Government has said that the obligations of the community to the members of those services warranted the increased rate of pay, and I feel sure that no honorable senator will quibble at the increase. Nor should it be necessary to defend at great length the proposals for the increase of invalid and old-age pensions. Most of the pensioners have been employed in industry in this country for about 50 years, but on reaching the age of 65 years found that they had no financial assets to enable them to eke out an existence. None of us will say that the£ 3s. 6d. a week granted to them in payment for the services rendered by them to their country throughout their lives is too great a recompense. The keynote of the proposals placed before us by the 'Government is that taxes should be levied in accordance with the ability of the individual to pay them. The comment has been made that persons in the higher income groups have been singled out for harsh treatment. Let us see if this be true. A. resident of New South Wales with an income of £2,000 a year has £1,262 left after paying Federal income tax and State taxation. That is equivalent to £25 a week with which to carry on his normal activities. I agree that he may have entered into commitments on the basis of an income of £40 a week; but I submit that he can adjust his commitments much more easily than is possible to a man who has to pay £11 12s. in taxes out of an income of £300 a year. 
I do. A taxpayer living in New South "Wales whose income is £250 a year has £244 10s. left after paying Federal and State income tax; a man on £300 a year is left with £288 8s. That is not a large amount on which to keep himself, a wife and one or more children. I submit that it is more difficult for a man on £5 a week to adjust his financial commitments than it is for a man who has £25 a week left after paying taxes. 
I am referring to the Labour Government of Australia, which has its own programme to carry out. 
No great sacrifice is demanded of a man, who, after paying his taxes, still has £25 a week with which to carry on his normal life. Apparently, the Opposition thinks that a man on £2,000 a year is called upon to make too big a sacrifice when he is expected to pay £542 towards the country's war effort. A citizen of New South Wales who is in receipt of £3,000 a year has £1,476 left after paying State and Federal taxes. In other words, even in this critical period of the nation's history, he is left with £28 10s. a week. I suggest that he is not called upon to bear any undue sacrifice. If there be any person in this country with an income of £40,000 a year- 
I should be grateful to that man who, out of an income of £40,000 a year, paid £34,000 towards the country's war effort. 
I am grateful to those persons with big incomes who contribute large amounts to the revenue of the Commonwealth. I am equally grateful, also, to the man on £250 a year, who pays £5 10s. a year in taxes. Each of those individuals will receive the maximum protection that the armed forces of the Commonwealth can provide for them. Each enters this country on an equal footing, but owing to the inequality of the distribution of wealth one is better off financially than the other. It is necessary for the Government to protect one section of the people by fixing a minimum wage for those in the low income group. Other sections of the community are more fortunate; some are still able to live in luxury. In this war, all of our cherished rights, privileges and traditions are at stake, but I would remind honorable senators the people in the higher income groups have the most to lose from a national defeat. 
It is contended in some quarters that companies are being taxed unduly. In normal times, an additional tax on profit of1s. in the £1, bringing the rate up to 3s. in the £1, might be regarded as a harsh imposition, but I remind the Senate that the old standards by which profits were measured are gone. In peace-time it was possible to measure the probable dividend by the degree of trading risk involved, but now it must be remembered that if the British Empire and its Allies do not win the war, not only will dividends disappear, but also the assets on which those dividends are now paid will be lost. As another honorable senator stated, companies, which are aggregations of individual shareholders, are merely paying a reasonable insurance premium against defeat by an enemy. 
That is so. 
I shall not enter into a lengthy discussion of that subject at present. The armed forces of the Empire are protecting the wealth as well as the lives of the people. They are protecting our liberties, and I suggest that, if some of our men are called upon to risk their lives in order to ensure the safety of the nation, it is not too much to ask companies and individuals who can afford to do so to assist the Government financially in order to win the war. 
I have no particular animus against bankers. I believe that the banking system of Australia has grown into a fairly solid organization, but if the private banking system be left uncontrolled, it can become a serious menace to the economic life of the community. Banking affects every citizen in the community because by the release or the restriction of credit it exercises a considerable control over industry. The banking system so controls our economic life that it in a large measure determines the lives of our citizens. In peace-time, we have been able to carry the burden of a private banking system without any very great effect on the national life. 
I believe that it is a burden because, unless properly controlled, it can do an immeasurable amount of harm to our economic system. In war-time, it would be suicidal to leave the control of the banks in the hands of individuals. When deposits are placed in a bank, the banks are able to lend over and above the amount of such deposits. 
I am not particularly interested in their balancesheets, but what I have said is a fact. The Macmillan Committee onFinance, whose report was published just after the last depression, set out clearly that it was the practice of the private banks in Great Britain to lend nine or ten times the amount of money deposited in their vaults. If the amount of credit passing into the banks is allowed to flow out in further credits it will lead to inflation. With cheap money and plenty of credit available, it would be possible for a speculative period leading to inflation to occur. The Royal Commission on the Monetary and Banking Systems recommended a system of bank control which should have been instituted four years ago when the report was submitted. I should like to see that control continued after the war, because I believe that in the post-war era there is likely to be a period of deflation. If left uncontrolled, the banks will bring about a deflationary period because of the necessity to protect their securities by calling in overdrafts. 
That happened in 1931, and it will happen again. The bankers have taken no real objection to the budget proposals with respect to banking. They have very good reason for that; they know that under the control of this Government, the Commonwealth Bank will become a central reserve bank. 
I believe that it should be a trading bank. However, the point I make is that the regulations  which the Treasurer is bringing in will make the Commonwealth Bank a central reserve bank and place the banking system of Australia on such a foundation that the Commonwealth Bank will have to carry any burden that may result. It is not my intention to pursue that subject any further. The budget sets out to organize a full war effort, and I believe that it contains proposals which offer the best means of achieving that end. 
I approach this budget not in any critical spirit because I realize that with the exception probably of the previous Administration this Government is confronted with the biggest task that any Commonwealth Government has ever had to tackle. However, it is fortunate in that the foundations upon which it will build its future activities were firmly laid by its predecessor. . The Government has three important tasks to undertake in this time of national crisis. First, it has to take every step to ensure that Australia emerges out of this war with the liberty of its people as much as possible unimpaired. Secondly, it has to see that our troops and those of our Allies who are fighting the battle for democracy are properly equipped and that our factories are turning out the maximum production of the munitions of war. Lastly, the Government has to see that, as far as possible, the civilian population is kept in reasonable comfort. Realizing the magnitude of the problems confronting the Government, my only desire is to help it, because I realize that this budget is the only justification that the present Government has for having turned its predecessor out of office. If this Government cannot do a better job than its predecessor - and it would have to do a splendid job to equal the record of the Menzies and Fadden Governments - there was no justification for the change. 
I do. 
Who moved the amendment that resulted in the defeat of the Fadden Government? 
Then the Minister is but an accidental occupant of his office. He is ashamed of the negotiations that resulted in the defeat of the Fadden Government. 
It is very hard for me to praise this budget, particularly when I find that Ministers apparently have no confidence in it. Apart from the few staccato sentences delivered by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  when he presented the revised Estimates and budget papers, no other Minister has seen fit to defend the budget. It seems to me that they are ashamed of it; they have no confidence in it because they have set up junior members of their team, one after the other, to substantiate it. What have those junior members of the team done? Possibly with the single exception of  Senator Arnold,  not one of them attempted to defend it. 
I  remind the Minister that he has not yet addressed the Senate in its defence. To witness the spectacle of five Ministers whose verbal athletics have become almost a record for Australia, now sitting almost at bursting point because they are ashamed of their own budget, is one of the most remarkable things that I have ever seen in this Senate.  Senator Darcey  spoke on the budget ; but he did not defend it. On the contrary, he disagreed with it in essence because from a financial point of view it is abhorrent to him. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Sen* tor Brown). - A personal explanation may be made only after the honorable senator to whose remarks objection is taken has resumed his seat. 
I would be sorry to misrepresent  Senator Darcey;  but if he said one word in defence of the budget during his lengthy speech on finance, I have no knowledge of the meaning of words. As a matter of fact, all the arguments he used were absolutely opposed to all the financial proposals contained in this budget. As he is opposed to it on financial grounds, and as he disagreed with the methods by which the Government proposes to raise the necessary revenue to meets its commitments, surely I am in order in saying that he in no way defended the budget. He was followed, if I remember aright, by you,  Mr. Deputy President.  In the course of an excellent speech delivered in your own inimitable entertaining style you made a number of wise remarks, but you did not attempt to defend the budget. I would like the people to know that we are following right lines; but apparently Ministers do not think so or if they do they are afraid to say so. I have never before met so many tongue-tied Ministers. I am at a loss to understand how  Senator Eraser  can sit in his place in this chamber and bear cogent criticism directed against the budget and still remain silent. He is a remarkable man. He has experienced a complete change of heart. It seems to me that from this hour he has decided not to say anything. 
This is a pure Australian budget. It is based upon Australia's most primitive weapon. This is what I call a boomerang budget. The Government gives something, but immediately it takes away more than it gives! It proposes to grant a lot of increases to certain sections of the community with great voting power, but it has provided that what is to be given shall not be worth anything. In fact, the people to whom those supposed increases are to be given will be worse off under this budget than they are now. I find that the budget speech itself contains a number of excellent financial expressions. First, it says that the increased volume of employment will place further spending power in the hands of the people. What increase of employment does the Government mean? 
Practically no available unemployed are to go into war work and, as  Senator Aylett  has said, a dearth of labour exists in the rural areas. The same scarcity exists everywhere; so no extra volume of employment will be created. The transfer of certain workers in civil occupations to work in war industries, which I strongly advise, would, not increase the total employment or the national wealth, especially the national wealth, because, ordinarily, munitions of war are not used for its expansion. One of the next statements in the budget speech reads - 
Private spending must therefore be limited to the small flow of civil goods that will be available and prices must be rigidly controlled. 
The Government intends to inflate the currency by borrowing, which is a euphonious way of saying " creating ", credit through the nation's bank. At the same time as it is inflating the currency it proposes to keep prices down. It proposes to chase the spectre of inflation with the mirage of price control. If it can achieve its purpose it will do one of the most remarkable things ever done in the economic life of any community. The budget speech proceeds - 
Credit expansion, however, can be successfully used to finance employment of reserves of man-power to expand the production of goods and materials. That is to say that any increase of the money volume must be balanced by the corresponding increase of production. 
The Government will not do that except by shifting men from  civil  production to the production of munitions. It will hot increase the wealth of the country by that means. 
No, that is so. This budget will be all right if there were a vast reservoir of unemployed people who could be  employed  with the extra money that is to be produced. 
I notice that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane),  who, in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer, introduced the budget papers in the Senate, has returned to the chamber. I welcome him as the only Minister in the Senate who has attempted to defend the budget. I point out, however, that immediately after having,' in his function as Minister representing the 
Treasurer, authoritatively and clearly announced the proposal for the limitation of civil spending, he leftthe chamberand resuming his functions as Minister for Trade and Customs, defeated the object of the excise portions of the budget, which were designed to restrict civil spending, by ordering that increased prices, consequent upon the increased excise, must not be charged, and said that the people should be able to drink as much beer and smoke just as much tobacco as before. 
Returning to the theme I was developing when the Minister for Trade and Customs made his welcome return to the chamber, I point out that the Government proposes to increase the capital of the country to an enormous degree by expanding credit. Optimistically, the Government also expects to raise, by means of ordinary loans, £66,000,000 for Commonwealth purposes, and £20,000,000 for the States. I am doubtful whether the Government will do so, especially in view of the fact that it proposes to expand credit by about £100,000,000. That amount of money would provide work for 400,000 people at £5 a head a week. Surely, in view of the opinions expressed in the budget speech by the Treasurer, expansion of credit to that degree would be justifiable only if the money so created could be used to finance the employment of reserves of man-power. Where are these reserves of man-power? If they do not exist, this proposal is simply a " blister ". 
Yes; that is why I am amazed that no Minister has defended the budget. These things should be explained. I am simply looking for information. I should like to be told how the Government proposes to obtain 400,000 extra workers for employment in the production ofmunitions and war materials. No one seems to know. If these workers be taken from other industries it will simply amount to transferring them from one industry to another. The Government says that it will obtain the money it requires by restricting the consumption of civil goods. That intimation is given in the budget, but not so definitely as I should like. 
The Government has said in effect that it intends to restrict the consumption of civil goods. 
Does the honorable senator suggest that we should entirely couponize the country; that we should issue coupons for food, clothing, tobacco, fuel, lighting, gas, beer and amusements, such as picture shows and races? 
Not in so many words; but, according to the budget, the Government intends to restrict the consumption of civil goods. 
What goods? It is well known that the consumption of civil goods, instead of declining, is increasing. The business of retail stores has increased by 35 per cent. in Sydney, 45 per cent. in Melbourne and 26 per cent. in Brisbane. At the same time, the prices of commodities have increased by less than 10 per cent. Consequently, an immense additional volume of goods is being consumed. The Government simply says that it will restrict the consumption of civil goods. When it makes a statement like that, it should explain how it intends to give effect to it. 
According to the honorable senator, the Government is going to ask the women of this country to spend less on underwear, lipstick, &amp;c. ; but they are to reduce such expenditure voluntarily. They are also to be asked voluntarily to reduce their expenditure on picture shows and amusements generally. The cook is to be asked to cut down the gas and fuel bill. All this is to be done voluntarily. People are to be asked not to go to the races so often. 
I am entirely in the dark, because no Minister is prepared to defend the budget. Apparently honorable senators opposite are ashamed of the budget. I approach it inthe most friendly spirit. I want to help if I possibly can, because I realize that the Government is now confronted with the biggest job thathas yet confronted any government in thehistory of this country. 
I may entertain doubts about the capacity of the Government to do the job ; but, in the meantime, a Minister should defend the budget. That task should not be left to junior members of theGovernment. Some of them have spoken on the budget, but they have not defended it; they have even attacked it. Most of them, however, merely attacked the previous Government. I should feel relieved if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  would give us an hour and a half, with his usual extension of half an hour, in order to. explain how the Government intends to carry out some of the proposals contained in the budget. I, and the people generally, would thus be enabled to gain some idea of what the Government has in mind. 
If I were obliged to understand everything that the honorable senator has said, I should find myself in a lunatic asylum. 
I ask that the honorable senator, withdraw that remark. 
The remark is not in order. I am inclined to think, however, that the honorable senator brought it upon himself. I ask  Senator Ashley  to withdrawthe remark to which exception has been taken. 
However, that is perhaps all beside the point. "What I wish to know is how the Government proposes to reinforce our men at the front, from where it proposes to obtain 400,000 additional munitions workers, and what steps it proposes to take to restrict civil purchases of nonessential goods. All of these objectives are outlined in the budget, but no honorable senator opposite, except, in a minor degree,  Senator Arnold,  has attempted to explain the method by which they are to be attained. The people of Australia are entitled to such an explanation and to a clear statement of the Government's plans. It will be a fine thing if the Government can provide sufficient reinforcements for our men, assure adequate supplies of munitions, and keep the civil population in reasonable comfort, and we are willing to assist it to. do so, but I again ask how it intends to do these things. For example, is it proposed to issue ration tickets, in order to limit purchases by the civil population, and to control the spending of the large sums which we are told will be earned by the additional workers in our munitions enterprises ? We request an explanation of these points. I trust that if the Government finds that it cannot achieve its objectives, it will show a' proper realization of the importance of the struggle we are making for the preservation of our freedom, and retire from the Government benches in order that another Government may make an effort to succeed where it has failed. 
I do not know whether to evince amusement or concern at the pathetic attitude adopted by  Senator Leckie.  ' In one sentence he said that the Government could not possibly do what it has set out to do in the way it has said it wilt do it, and, in another sentence, he said that honorable senators opposite would assist the Government to enable it to achieve its ends. I am what I suppose the honorable gentleman would describe as a junior member of the Senate, and I have not heard him deliver many speeches, but I could not help feeling that he was in very poor form to-night. He charged  Senator Aylett  with verbal athletics. I would describe his own speech as a demonstration, not of verbal athletics, but of mental gymnastics, and it occurs to me that he must have had considerable exercise of this nature. Although I am a junior member of the Senate, I can claim a certain amount of political sagacity. I have certainly had a long experience in the Labour movement and in the political arena. I have also given considerable study to economics. I was startled to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  say that the party to which he belongs has no caucus. 
I am glad to know that. If honorable senators opposite have no caucus their utterances reflect their individual opinions and not their composite mind. Therefore, I hope that the Labour budget will commend itself to them.  Senator Leckie  said that he would like the people to know that honorable senators on the Government side were proceeding on right lines. I suggest that there is one sure method of testing that point, and that is by rejecting the budget and appealing to the people. In that way, the honorable senator would soon discover that the people consider that the Labour Government is proceeding on right lines. The Leader of the Opposition, in order to prove that this is a biased budget - he called it a vicious budget - took exception to the taxes to be imposed on persons in receipt of the higher incomes. He said that in Australia only 2,000 persons receive incomes of £5,000 a year and upwards, and he mentioned that 2,400,000 persons get less than £400 a year. The story need go no further than that, because that in itself is a tragic revelation. I commend  Senator Brand  for his statement that nobody could object to the taxing of the very wealthy class. That seems to suggest that there must be some truth in the assertion that there is no caucus among members of the Opposition. I regard those earning over £5,000 a year as very wealthy, and I think that  Senator Brand  would support me in that opinion. Therefore, he was in discord with the leader of his own party. 
We contend that the man in receipt of little more than the basic wage is paying all the time. 

 Senator Spicer, in the course of his speech, complained that this budget does not spread the hurden of taxation equitably. He said that the man on the lower wage was not contributing his share, and that there was no equality of sacrifice, but, before he resumed his seat, he almost shed tears in his complaint that indirect taxes would bear harshly on the lower wage-earners. I ask him to be consistent. I agree that the lower wage-earners will bear a heavier burden than other taxpayers. The honorable senator was trying to point to what he chose to call the injustice of the budget, but, as a matter of fact, the increases of the sales tax in the budget apply mainly to nonessentials. I find that it is well to consider what a lawyer does not say as well as the words he uses. I advocate justice rather than that which the law provides. 
In an obvious attempt to boost the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the Leader of the Opposition compared the cost of steel produced in Australia with that of steel made in the Old Country. Again, we should have regard to the things that were left unsaid. The honorable senator failed to mention the handicap suffered by the producers of steel in Great Britain as compared with producers in Australia and elsewhere. He did not refer to the mining rents and royalties that have to be paid by steel producers in Great Britain, and he omitted to draw attention to the fact that the railways in the Old Country are privately owned, and that exorbitant freights are charged for the carriage of steel. Thirty years ago, steel could be produced at Pittsburg, freighted across the Atlantic, and landed at the furnace doors at Sheffield at a lower rate than that at which it could be produced in the Sheffield furnaces, despite the fact that high wages are paid in the United States of America. 
At the commencement of his speech,  Senator McBride  told us a first-class sob story. I was watching the distinguished visitor from the South African Parliament, and I expected him to burst into tears, because of the woes with which we were said to be threatened unless certain advice tendered by the honorable senator was promptly accepted. The only bright spot apparently was the progress made in the manufacture of munitions. The honorable senator has only recently vacated the position of Minister for Munitions, and, naturally, he desired to boost the Ministry of Munitions, and the munitions workers, who, he said, were doing a good job. I happen to have some technical knowledge, and I can tell the honorable senator that those workers did a good job according to the equipment at their disposal, but that many things that could have been done by them were not done. Since the outbreak of war, the crying need in this country has been for machine tools. Everybody knows that. Buckets of ink were used by the last Government in order to prove that more and more production was needed, and in explaining the difficulty of securing shipping space for the transport of machinery and machine tools from the United States of America; yet a few months ago - and I have no doubt that the position is no different to-day - I could have selected, within a radius of 250 yards, in the Sydney metropolitan area a sufficient number of machines to equip a machine tool manufacturing shop. I am an engineer by trade, and have visited the shops in which these machines are installed. It would not be necessary to hamper in the slightest degree the war effort of thedifferent firms. 
The honorable senator may be skilled in the procedure of the Senate, but he is not so well versed in applied mechanics as I, with 37 years experience, should be. I believe that I could have brought practical knowledge to the task of Minister for Munitions, and could have achieved much better results than were achieved by the honorable senator. There will be an improvement of the position under the present administration. I cannot blame the honorable senator for failing to know that it was possible to equip machine tool manufacturing shops; but I consider that he was at fault in having failed to ascertain the possibilities of the various Government establishments. When he was Minister, I asked him what use was being made of the inspectors employed by the State Department of Labour and Industry, and he gave me clearly, to understand that' he was not aware of their existence, let alone their qualifications. He should have instituted inquiries in order to learn what talent was available. Working for the Department of Labour and Industry in New South Wales are 18 or 20 highly skilled technical men who would be invaluable to the war effort. It was my intention to follow up the question I had asked, but when I saw that a change of government was imminent I decided to reserve the information that T had, for the benefit of the new administration. The men to whom I have referred are performing functions which, in their opinion, do not achieve the best results, and they are anxious to participate more closely in the war effort. As a matter of fact, two or three of them who were able to do so joined the fighting services, and have become active participants in the war. Had the "honorable senator' known his job, he would have combed the different State departments for whatever men were available, and would have used them to the best advantage. These men, without leaving their offices, could tell what machines are installed in the different workshops in their areas, and which of them are being used in the war effort. Their knowledge of the various shops in their areas is so complete that they could equip several machine tool manufacturing shops. I worked for years in a machine tool manufacturing shop in Sydney, consequently I know what equipment is necessary. I worked at the trade, as well as at munitions production, on the other side of the world. The honorable senator could have controlled his department much better than he did. 
I also asked a question in relation to the setting up of a plastic advisory committee, and the reply that I received was evasive. I had been informed - and my informant could not be contradicted - that a body of Melbourne men who were using the plastic material employed in the making of telephones and the like, had formed themselves into a committee to tender advice to the Minister for Munitions. 
The complaint that Ministers have, not attempted to reply to the observations of honorable senators opposite, is ill-timed. Perhaps Ministers do not consider that the opposition offered so far has been worth the expenditure of any verbal ammunition, except what junior senators are able to provide. I have not noticed that any pearls of wisdom have fallen from the lips of our opponents. 

 Senator Arnold has said that Australia is able to bear the burden of private banks in peace-time, but not in wartime. An honorable senator opposite questioned the use of the description " burden ". Of course the banks are a burden! One of these days, honorable senators opposite may get down to fundamentals, and study economics, thus improving their understanding. 

 Senator James McLachlan spoke feelingly of the hardship that would be caused by the tax imposed on incomes above £1,500 a year, and by the aggregation of the incomes of husbands and wives. Any one listening to him could have been forgiven had he entertained the suspicion that the honorable senator felt the hardship personally. 
It occurred to  m»that  the honorable senator left himself open to that construction of his remarks. In my opinion, honorable senator? opposite are doing their job. When J worked at the bench in the grime and dust of an engineering shop I looked om on what appeared to me to be a grey world. At the end of the day I had to fill in a time-sheet, or wages-sheet. That is what honorable senators opposite are doing; they are filling in time-sheets for their bosses. I sympathize with them in their difficult task. The people who pay their election expenses want to know what they are getting back in services rendered. On one occasion I spoke with my tongue in my cheek, but the task was difficult; and therefore I sympathize with honorable senators opposite who, I imagine, often speak with their tongues in their cheeks and indulge in sham fighting in order to impress their bosses. The Labour party is better able to organize this country's war effort than were the governments which preceded it. L remind the Senate that all production is the result of effort. That section of the community which supports the Labour party consists of men and women who undoubtedly are toilers. Unfortunately, not every toiler supports the Labour party; some of them vote for members of the Opposition. I have always held that Labour has never been defeated by its political opponents: it lias frequently defeated itself. But those who support us are the people who fight wars and make the tools and implements wherewith to wage war. Unfortunately for themselves, they also have to pay for wars. One of the reasons why the appeal for recruits has not been so successful as was expected in some quarters is that the  people  are not prepared to have the wool pulled over their eyes time after time. The people of Australia have asked for a first instalment of the "new order" of which we hear so much, and the present Government has given it in this budget. In his anxiety to know how the present Government proposed to overcome certain economic laws,  Senator Leckie  was somewhat impatient. If he will wait patiently until March he will know that the Government is on the right track. If those in Opposition to the present Government were to get down to fundamentals they would, not ask so many questions as to the way in which the budget will be implemented, for they would know that the source of all wealth is the application of labour to the land, and that a nation's credit is determined by its power to produce. To-day, tha average worker is much better educated than was the case in the past. He realizes that he owns the means whereby men live. . He is determined that the power to produce credit out of the airmoney out of nothing - shall be taken away from private individuals. That i-a  a  fundamental matter, and I hope to have a further opportunity to discuss it more fully. When I do so, I shall give to honorable senators opposite some lessons in bread-and-butter economics of which they appear to be badly in need. The ignorance of the subject displayed by some honorable senators is woeful. If afforded an opportunity to do so, the Labour Government will give to the people of Australia a lesson in sound economics. I belong to a powerful trade union called the Amalgamated Engineering Union. Our contributions are  rather  high - we pay 2s. a week, and the money is placed in the Commonwealth Savings Bank. Somebody comes along and borrows that money from the bank at 7 per cent, interest, having offered adequate security, and uses it, perhaps, to build an engineering shop. In the course of time I may fall out of work, and walk past the shop built with the funds which I have contributed. I ask the foreman what are the prospects of a job, and if he is satisfied that I can earn for him 15 per cent, or 20 per cent, profit he will give me one - that is, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent, on the money which I have contributed as a member of my union. My wife needs to be another Denison Miller to balance the budget while that is going on. 
That is exactly what it is. As I said, he who owns the means by which I live owns my very life." A nation's credit is fixed by its ability to produce. The only thing that can destroy the credit of this country is for the producing classes to fold, their arms and refuse to produce. Within the limits of our productivity we can extend credit, and up to that stage it is not inflation. It may be that, during this war, we will have to expand credit even a little in excess of the nation's ability to produce. That would be inflation, and at that point we would have to exercise very rigid control, but it can bo done. During the last war, the Government made promises to the soldiers who went away, and then honoured them by bringing  Sir Otto  Neimeyer to Australia to introduce the economic depression. If the last Government had taken that lesson to heart it might, instead of merely talking about a new economic order, have given the country an immediate instalment. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the PostmasterGeneral aware that the Commonwealth Public Service Board is calling for applications from young men in Victoria, who are eligible for enlistment in the Australian Imperial Force, to be trained as junior linemen in his department? Could not some of the young returned soldiers be trained to fill those positions, instead of being allotted dead-end jobs in munitions establishments ? 
Earlier in the day,  Senator Brand  intimated to me that he intended to ask that question. The matter comes within the purview of the Public Service Board, which has furnished the following reply :  - 
Yes. Such applications have been called for in order to meet departmental requirements for linemen who, until recently, . have been drawn almost wholly from returned soldiers. There is such a large percentageof older men in the ranks of linemen that it is desirable to recruit some youths and draft them as linemen after suitable training. These trainees will provide only a portion of the number of linemen required, the balance being recruited from returned soldiers. Consideration will be given to the suggestion that suitable young returned soldiers be trained to meet departmental requirements of men as linemen. 
Can the Minister representingthe Minister for the Army say whether a copy of Major-General  Sir Iven  Mackay's report on the Australian defences will be made available to honorable senators? 
I shall submit the honorable senator's question to the Minister for the Army and supply an answer later. 
asked the Minister for Information,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government hag under consideration a delegation to Russia? 
If so, will the Government consider the advisability of allowing the gentlemen now appointed for an overseas visit to visit Russia at thesame time, thus saving the cost of a further delegation? 
I referred the honorable senator's questions to the Minister for External Affairs, who has supplied the following answers: - 
Yes. 2.The question of the personnel of such a delegation does not arise until a final decision is made. The honorable senator's suggestion will be noted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Did the Treasurer recently state, as reported in the press - "T he Government is conducting an inquiry into the question of compellingthetradingbanksbyaprocessof amalgamation to reduce unnecessary expenditure and release any surplus man-power for urgent work in government war-time activities? 
Has any report on this matter been received by the Government? 3.. Does this action on the part of the Government indicate an intention to bring aboutnationalizations of banking 4.Isit the intention of the Government' to conductsimilar inquiries into other industries? 
The Treasurerhas suppliedthefollwinganswerstothe honorable senator's questions: - 
The Treasurer made no such statement. 
3 and 4. Sec answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasures,  upon notice - 
Has the Treasurer received a request from the West Australian Council against unemployment, Perth, fora cash grant to the unemployed as a Christmas box? 
If not, does the Government intend to make such a grant? 
-The  Treasurer has supplied the following answer :  - 
Such a request has been received, but in view of the very great increase of employment arising out of the unprecedented expenditure programme of the Commonwealth it is not proposed to make such a grant this year. 
 On the 13th November, 1941,  Senator Arthur  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Is it a fact that subscribers of large amounts to the war loan, when applying direct to the Commonwealth Bank, attach to their applications lists of brokers with the advice that such brokers are to be paid brokerage, notwithstanding that such brokers have no connexion with the application? 
Is it a fact that the Australian Mutual Provident Society follows this practice? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers :  - : 
To be eligible for payment of brokerage brokers must lodge loan applications personally with the Commonwealth Bank. No brokerage is paid on applications lodged direct with the bank by persons other than brokers. 
See answer to No. 1. 
I invite honorable senators to study carefully the alterations of sales  tax  legislation contemplated by this bill.  It  is obvious to any honorable senator who makes a close study of the schedules of this bill that the decision to increase the rate of sales tax on certain commodities has been arrived  at  very hastily and that, as the result, grave injustice will be inflicted on. certain industries. The imposition of substantially increased rates of tax on essential foodstuffs and household requisites will bear harshly on people with large families. In spite of the fact that the imposition of this tax has caused considerable inconvenience and expense  to  the commercial community, it provides a very good means of raising revenue on a just and equitable basis in time of war if it be applied only to luxury goods. I point out, however, that this impost can be abused. The rate of 20 per cent. to be imposed on certain goods is abnormally high and the increase of the tax on certain commodities from 5 per cent. to 10 per cent. must have a detrimental effect on many industries. I propose to confine my comments to some important items included in the schedule and, when the bill is in committee, to move amendments in regard to them. I particularly draw the attention of honorable senators to Division II. in the Second Schedule, item 3, sub-items  1,  2 and 3. There, as honorable senators will observe, the tax of5 per cent. has been increased by 100 per cent. This increase will inflict great hardship on the fishing industry. Sub-item  1  includes boats and accessories for use in the fishing industry: subitem 2 covers crayfish pots; and sub-item. 3 covers engines for use in the fishing industry. Asis well known the fishing industry has been established on the coast of practically all. Australian States, but owing to the increased prices of the requirements of the industry as  the result of. the war fishermen are facing considerable hardships. They are experiencing great difficulty in securing new boats. The Government of which I was a member received repeated requests for assistance by way of bounty for the. construction of wooden vessels for the fishing industry. Several have already been built in Australia. The difficulties of the industry have been further added to by the commandeering of many of their best boats for naval purposes. The increase of 100 per cent, in the sales tax on boats and other equipment required by fishermen is excessive. If this decision was arrived at hastily I trust that the Government will not be obstinate and refuse to accept the amendment which I propose to move in committee. If it is not prepared to forgo the sales tax on these essential requirements it should at least agree to their retention in the 5 per cent, schedule. The rate of tax on tinned fish, of which Australian sales are considerable, has also been increased by 100 per cent. It is interesting to note that the imports of fish preserved in tins during the financial year prior to the war amounted to 30,000,000 lb., valued at £1,182,845. Those figures give honorable senators some indication of the big demand for tinned fish in this country. The restrictions which were placed on the importation of tinned fish from the United States of America as a. means of conserving dollar exchange have brought about an increased demand for the local product. Fish is an essential commodity and not a luxury. In hotels, restaurants and private houses fish is very much in  demand,  particularly on Fridays. I urge the Government to reconsider the tax imposed on that item. It is unnecessary to remind honorable senators that the people outback have to rely largely on tinned foods. Already the cost of production of tinned foods has increased owing to the war and the proposal to increase the. tax by 100 per cent, will add greatly to the problems of those who live in the more remote parts of the country. I am at a loss to understand why the Government has decided to increase from 5 per cent, to 10 per cent, the tax on tinned meat of Australian origin- Owing to shipping difficulties the Minister for 
Commerce  (Mr. Scully)  is confronted with the .problem of securing extra space tor ihe storage of meat. In order to relieve the position a large quantity of meat is now being canned in this country. It is proposed on the one hand to help the industry and on the other to increase .the sales tax on its products which must adversely affect sales. It is also proposed to double the rate of tax on coffee, coffee essence, cocoa and cocoa essence. It is admitted by medical men that cocoa is an essential beverage for women, particularly young mothers.  The tax on Australian cider is also to be increased by 100 per cent. The Minister for Commerce announced recently that the committee which inquired into the apple and pear acquisition scheme has strongly advised the Government to expand the- Australian cider industry as a means of utilizing the surplus production of apples which can no longer be exported owing to shipping difficulties brought about by the war. In that instance, it is proposed to increase the rate from 5 per cent, to 10 per cent. Also, in the same schedule are fruit juices, including orange and pineapple juices.  Recently, the Government was requested to assist the citrus-fruit industry, particularly in New South Wales and South Australia, owing to the reduction of exports caused by the shortage of shipping. In view of these facts, one would imagine that the Government would be most anxious to assist the fruit industry. Instead, however, it proposes to increase the rate of sales tax on fruit juices by 100 per cent. Further,  Ave  know that fruit juices are recommended as -health beverages. 
It is also proposed to increase the rate of tax on building materials from 5 per. cent, to 10 per cent. I remind honorable senators opposite that sales tax was originally imposed on building materials at a time when- flats and expensive buildings were being erected on an extensive scale throughout the 'Commonwealth, and when the industry could thus afford to make this contribution to revenue. During the war, however, and particularly during the next twelve months, the demand for homes for workers on the lower levels of income will increase. The State governments are now considering various housing schemes in order to relieve the shortage of homes for workers. The permission of the Capital Issues Advisory Board must now be obtained for the erection of buildings of a greater value than £1,500. The increase ofthe sales tax rate on building materialsby 100 per cent. will increase the price of homes, and this will hear unfairly on. people" on the lower ranges of income. In view of those facts, I cannot understand why the Government should seek to increase the rate of tax on building materials at all. 
Many of the items which it. is proposed to transfer from the 10 per cent. to the 20 per cent. schedule are essential commodities. They may appear to be unimportant, but actually they are required extensively in the home, particularly by large families. They include soap, toothpaste, wringers, carpets, carpet sweepers, lawn.mowers, garden hose and cutlery. A rate of 20 per cent. on such items is very considerable, and will represent a serious impost on the many thousands of our young people who are about to marry. The Government could have raised the revenue it required in a more equitable way than by increasing the sales tax on such commodities. Most of the articles affected are essentials in families. I sincerely hope that, the Government will accept the amendments which honorable senators on this side propose to move at the committee stage. If it cannot agree to exempt these items altogether, we request that it will at least allow such articles to remain in the 5 per cent. schedule, because all of the articles concerned are essential household requirements or foodstuffs. According to figures supplied by the Treasury, it is estimated that, during the year ended the 30th June, 1941,90 per cent. of incomeearners in Australia received £400 or less. That section of income-earners really represents an overwhelming majority of the consuming public of Australia. I again appeal to the Government to accept the amendments which honorable senators on this side propose to move in the committee stage. 
That is so, but othermethods are open tothe Government to raise the revenue it requires. In any case, honorable senators opposite, I presume, were just as anxious eleven months ago to win the war as they are to-day. Consequently, I take this opportunity to remind some of them of the views they expressed when the sales tax schedules were considered by this chamber in December last. On that occasion,  Senator Collings,  who is now the Leader of the Senate, at page 933 of  Hansard,  said - 
Without repenting any portion of my budget speech, I may say that the Opposition believes thatthere is an alternative to ever-increasing indirect taxation. 
Immediately the honorable senator enters the Cabinet, however, he gives unequivocal support to a proposal to increase the rate of sales tax on foodstuffs and other essential commodities from 5 per cent. to 20 per cent. 
We were at war on the 12th December last, when the honorable senator made that statement. On that occasion, also,  Senator. Brown,  at page 933 of  Hansard,  stated - 
I look upon the sales tax as a. tax which has caused more trouble than it is worth to the business community. Even in war-time, the Government should seek to raise the money which it needs by other means, instead of  by  increasing the worries and troubles of the business community and causing the expenditure of energy which would bo better expended in other directions. The sales tax, like other indirect tax. reduces the wages of the workers. 
On page 935,  Senator Brown  said - 
I contend that the taxation of income is the fairest form of taxation. 
Then we come to  Senator Cameron,  who is now the Minister for Aircraft Production. I think it necessary to remind the Minister that, in order to be consistent, he should vote against this measure. On page938  Senator Cameron  said - 
. The effect of the increases of sales tax will be to reduce the purchasing power of the workers, particularly the lower paid workers ...  . . The important point that I wish to make is that as the purchasing power of the 'workers is lowered by means of the sales tax. .-&gt;&gt; the possibility  of  strikes and industrial disputes will increase . . .. 
I can just imagine the Minister making those remarks, in his usual " Yarra Bank style . of oratory, to delegates attending conferences of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I remind him of the?e statements' in the hope that he may consider them when he votes on this measure. 
If the Minister wishes to challenge the accuracy of  Ilansard  and claim that he did not make these statements, he  i3  quite at liberty to do so. 
On page 93S the Minister said - 
. When the full effect of this tax is fell, protest meetings will be held on all these jobs to decide what action should bc taken to counteract the ever-increasing cost of living . . . 
On page 929 he said - "    . . Why should this infamous tax be imposed when the services of many people, who are now out of work, or are employed in non-essential industries, could be utilized in increasing the production of essential commodities 
. The object of this tax is not only to obtain additional money for the purposes of war, but also to withhold commodities from those who are greatly in need of them. Why should those workers be forced to do with fewer loaves of bread, less meat, fewer oranges and apples and other commodities, and fewer of the amenities of life, when there is an abundance of consumer goods? . 
On page 940 the Minister said - 
 I make that protest, because, after my long experience in the industrial movement, I am certain that there will be an increase of industrial disputes and strikes, if this tax, which, I am informed, will reduce wages by at least 5s. a week, be imposed . . . 
I remind honorable senators that these statements were made on the 12th December, 1940 - only eleven months ago. I shall return, for a moment, to statements made by  Senator Brown,  because in the following passage, he refers to an item which I have mentioned, namely, household requisites : -   . . Looking through the list of socalled luxury items, I see such appliances as vacuum cleaners, mechanical floor polishers and scrubbers. In a hot climate such as that of Queensland domestic technical appliances are certainly not luxuries. They are used in thousands of homes and, in many instances, are purchased on terms. A tax of . 15 per cent, will considerably add to their cost. 
I invite the honorable senator.. fo go back to Queensland and tell the women there that, after all, wringers are luxuries, and that it has been decided to increase the sales tax on them to 20 per cent. As a rule I do not indulge in the practice of referring to  Hansard  to ascertain what honorable senators have said from time to time, but in considering a measure such as this, it is perhaps as well to remind honorable senators opposite, who now occupy the treasury bench, of the strong views which they expressed against the sales tax only eleven months- ago. I suggest to them that they should not be pig-headed and that they should agree to certain amendments reducing the sales tax on some items from 10 per cent, to 5 per cent,., and removing others from the 5 per cent, schedule and placing them on the exempt list. If that be done the Government will receive wholehearted support from the Opposition. 
[3.46J. -  in reply  - In replying to the very moderate criticism which has been levelled against this measure, I should like to emphasize " that- this Government, like its predecessors, does not favour controversial .legislation such as this. However, it is realized that revenue must be obtained. The sales tax was introduced originally in 1929. by the 'Scullin Government at, .a time of emergency. A promise was then given that when the financial position of the country improved sufficiently the sales tax legislation would be removed from the statute-book. Successive governments formed by the parties now sitting in opposition did not fulfill that promise when the time came, but continued to impose the tax, and to-day it is a recognized means of obtaining revenue. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  that the items on which he proposes to move certain amendments can be 'better dealt with on their merits at the committee stage. In my second-reading speech I endeavoured to make it quite clear, that exemptions from sales tax covered items coming within the ordinary regimen of the average worker. 
Such things are not vital to the health of the people. Quite a lot has been said by honorable senators about the tax on fish, and that matter will be fully discussed when the item is reached in committee. One aspect of this -measure which should not be lost sight of is the fact that there is a" big responsibility on officials of the department to see that when the new schedule comes into operation there will not he a repetition of what occurred on the last occasion. Obviously when the new rates are imposed manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers will have stocks on hand. So far as I can ascertain, until now no adequate steps have been taken to see that the now rates are not charged on stocks on hand when a new schedule becomes operative. However, some measure of control is exercised by the Prices Commissioner. 
At a later stage I shall give the Senate a brief  resume  of " the method employed by the Prices Commissioner in handling such increases as these. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that it is unfortunate that  legislation of this kind is necessary, but I repeat that items in every-day use are exempt from the tax. The schedules of exemptions are very extensive, and can fairly be said to safeguard the vital interests of those engaged in primary and secondary production. Agricultural machinery and other equipment in use by men on the land, dairying machinery, poultry farmers' gear and equipment, bee-keepers' appliances, foodstuffs, beverages, bread, meat, fish, bacon, dried vegetables and numerous other commodities are exempt from sales tax. I hope that when the act is reprinted the schedules will indicate the rates of sales tax applicable to the goods named in them. Like  Senator Leckie,  I am amazed at the opposition to this bill, as he was surprised at the silence of Ministers regarding the budget proposals. A large number of bills has -to be considered' before Christmas, and the Government desires to have an opportunity to consider them fully as "soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Amendment of First Schedule). 
1 notice that exemption from sales tax is to be granted in respect of uniforms of members of the Australian Army Nursing Service. I presume that all materials used by nurses will be exempt from the sales tax, but I should like the Government to consider the exemption of their cabin trunks and suit cases, which are a. necessary part of a nurse's outfit. These trunks and cases are now subject to sales tax at the rate of 20 per cent. 
.- -This clause provides for the exemption of uniforms and certain equipment of members of the defence forces, including nurses, but the trunks and suit cases mentioned by the honorable senator are nol; items ordinarily issued by the Defence Department. They are usually purchased by the nurses out of their allowance, and the Government is not prepared to amend the clause in the direction sought. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 - 
The Second Schedule to the Principal Act is amended by omitting Division I., sub-items (].). (2) and (3) of Item 3. Item 4. Divisions III. and IV.) sub-items (1), (0). (fi), (S), (10). (12). (14) and (15) of Item 10, Divisions VI. and VIII., and Items 38, 39, 4.1, 4:2. 45, 40, 47 and 48. 
 I move - 
That the words "sub-items (1), (2) and (3) of Item 3." be left out. 
Sub-items 1, 2 and 3 read as follows :  - 
Boats (including oars, sails, life belts, life boat? and other similar accessories) for use in the fishing industry. 
Crayfish pots. 
Engines for use in the fishing industry. 
If the amendmentbe accepted, those particular items, which are essential to the fishing industry in Australia, will be taxedat the old rate of 5 per cent. instead of 10 per cent. If the Government desires to go further than that, I shall have no objection.Will the Minister in charge of the bill inform the committee what he meant when he said that fish was exempt from sales tax? 
I understand that the effect of this amendment would be to reduce from. 10 per cent. to 5 per cent. the sales tax on certain material essential to the conduct of the fishing industry. Now that we have reached the stage when business men count for little in the community - I have neither anything to hope fornor anything to fear - I can speak with a freedom that in other circumstances I may not have enjoyed. For years this country has been labouring under a tremendous disadvantage. Round its shores are some of the best fishing grounds in the world, and to a great degree they are unexploited. Efforts have been made by every State in Australia to do something to develop a sea sense in our people. We have vast areas of most valuable fishing grounds in the waters around Australia. In 1927 the Commonwealth Government, took this matter up with some seriousness, in conjunction with the State governments, but the progress has been slow. We have expended large sums of money in attempting to develop this industry. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  told the Senate this afternoon how much money has been expended in. the importation of fish products from overseas. If we do not develop a. sen. sense among the people, some other nation will do it for us. Nobody recognizes the fact more than does the Opposition that the Government needs revenue; but, I appeal to the Government to accept the amendment of the 
Leader of the Opposition unless a tremendous loss of revenue would be involved. 
Experts in the catching, curing and canning of fish have been brought to Australia in order to give to us their advice, and a vessel specially constructed for fishing has been built at a cost of over £10,000 in an effort, to encourage the development of the industry. Although this amendment may appear to the Minister in charge of the bill to be a minor matter, I assure him that the principle involved is most important. Those engaged in the fishing industry are merely eking out an existence at present, and may be resorting to practices of which we do not, approve. Crayfish, whiting and tuna are presentin our waters in large quantities, and the harvest could easily be gathered if the industry were properly organized. One of the scientists who was brought to Australia from Canada is skilled in the purse-seine method of fishing. If the loss of sales tax, which acceptance of this amendment would involve,be only a few hundreds, or even a few thousands, of pounds, I suggest that that loss should be sustained in the interests of the development of the fishing industry, which is essential to the safety of the nation and to the welfare of the people of Australia. The public need fish meals, and, in Queensland, particularly, fish products are a necessary part of the diet of stock. So far asI can see now, I shall not ask for any other concession in. regard- to this measure. I think that I know what is in the minds of those who are in charge of the finances of the country. They probably expect that representations will be made to them on behalf of deserving cases here and there. I could make representations on behalf of scores of deserving cases, and could point to anomalies in this schedule which ought to berectified, but, in my opinion, none of them is of so great importance to the futureof this country as is the need to foster and develop the fishing industry. At various times in my home imported salmon has been placed before seven or eight people, and even then there has been sufficient left to provide a cold fish luncheon on the following day. For that fish I have paid, perhaps, 10s. or l1s.; but had I attempted to set before  the same diners Australian tuna, or locally caught whiting, the cost would have been from 16s. to fi. The Leader of the Opposition has given to us some illuminating figures regarding Australia's importations of fish. I am not sure that those figures would influence me greatly but for the fact that I regard the fishing industry as of great importance to the safety of this country. It is a na'tural industry which can bc greatly developed, although in the past it appears to have been neglected by us. I urge the Minister to give way, and to accept the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Senator SAMPSON (Tasmania) [4.7 J. - In my youth I had a good deal to do with fishing and fishermen. The  per capita,  consumption of fish in Australia compares unfavorably with that of most European countries, as well as many Asiatic countries. The fishing industry of Australia should be developed, and the consumption of fish encouraged, because Australians are high on the listof peoples subject to goitre. The reason is largely lack of iodine in their food. Fish contains iron, and is a. preventive of goitre. In Bass Strait there are many kinds of surface swimming fish, but the fishing industry there has not been developed to any considerable degree, although during recent years some fish has been canned under great difficulties. The development of this industry is a vital necessity to us as a nation. Quite apart from the value of fish as a food, is the importance of the fishing industry to the defence of Australia. The existence of a few hundred thousand fishermen around our coasts to-day would make a tremendous difference to the defences of this -country, and would provide a source from which men required by our Navy could be obtained. The proposal of the Government is not opposed in any factious spirit. The Opposition knows well that the Government must obtain revenue to meet its commitments. I recall a trip which I made to Canada in 3928 when certain aspects of sales tax legislation were investigated. Those of us who made that trip met members of about three dozen different boards of trade, which are the equivalent of our chambers of commerce. The members of every such board, as well as other individuals in the various towns that we visited in the nine provinces of Canada, cursed the sales tax vehemently. All were agreed that although it had been introduced as a. war measure the tax would never be abolished. We little dreamed then that within a year or two the sales tax would be introduced into Australia. When we were in the House of Commons at Ottawa, a member of the Government of Canada told us that the reason that sales tax would never be abolished was that it provided an easy means of obtaining revenue. I agree with him that revenue derived from this source is "easy money", and for that reason I predict that the sales tax has come to stay in Australia also. . No government will ever get rid of it, because it provides " easy money ". Nevertheless, the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  is worthy of consideration by the Government, and I ask the Minister in charge of the bill to weigh carefully the views that have been presented. 

 Senator J. B. HAYES (Tasmania) [4.12 J. - I join with other honorable senators in appealing to the Minister to accept the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay).  The. fishing industry of Australia should be developed. There are thousands of tons of fish in the waters around our coast, yet fish is dear in the shops. Some time ago, I had occasion to visit the works -of the fishing industry on Flinders Island. The people there have spent thousands of pounds in establishing an industry to can tuna. I saw a few tons of beautiful fish brought in. When canned, tuna is of considerable value as food. Moreover, tuna is easily caught, although it is true that a special vessel is required. Unlike  Senator Sampson,  I do not know a great deal about fishing; but fishermen with whom I- have conversed have told me that strong vessels are needed for catching tuna, and that they have found difficulty in raising money to purchasethe necessary craft. I believe that they appealed to the Commonwealth Government for assistance. 
That is so. 
SenatorJ. B. HAYES.- Notwithstandingthe difficulties which fishermen have to face, such as working night and day inall weathers, and the heavy cost of suitable vessels, when they ask for Government, assistance in order to develop an important industry, the only reply that, they receive is that the sales tax on fishing vessels has been increased. 
I do not think that the fishermen would have any reason to thank this Parliament for that measure of assistance. By the time that they pay for their boats, nets, gear and other requirements, their total expenditure will be considerable. 
I know that there is a war on, and that the Government must obtain money, but I point out that these people desire not only to make a living for themselves but also to make fish available to the people at cheaper rates. The people of Australia desire to buy more fish than they, now consume, but the price is too high. I do not think that the Government will obtain much additional revenue from this tax, for it is not likely that many ships will be built, within the next two or three years. The revenue from this tax will be so small that the Government might well accept the amendment. 
Listening to thestory which has been repeated by honorable senators opposite, my patience became almost exhausted. I remind the Senate that when Admiral Henderson visited Australia in 191.1, he advised Australia to establish its own fishing fleets. In later years a Labour government in New South Wales heeded that advice, and established a. State trawling industry. Its development would not only have provided fish for consumption by the people but it would also have provided a means of teaching Australians necessary facts about their own coast-line. However, a government with the samepolitical outlook as that of honorable senators opposite, sold the trawler when it assumed office in New South Wales. I emphasize thatthe sale was made, not to Australians, but to Italians. When I read in to-day's newspapers that more enemy mines had been found off the coast of Australia, I almost became sick when I remembered that Italians, not Australians, had been encouraged to become acquainted with our Pacific coast-line. Honorable senators opposite now make an impassioned plea on behalf of those engaged in the fishing industry, but although they had a majority in this Parliament since 1916, what did they do to ensure continuous supplies of cheap fish to the people? What action did they take to see that vessels were made available to those who desired to engage in fishing? 
What I should have done had I had the opportunity which was available to honorable senators opposite for many years is not possible to-day. Any ships that can be built now are required for the transport of Australian produce to other countries. There should have been in operation a continuous shipbuilding policy, in order to provide trawlers for those engaged in fishing along our coasts, and to enable them to become acquainted with our coast-line. Had that policy been pursued by previous governments, the situation to-day would not have been so serious as it is. Honorable senators opposite supported previous governments which did nothing to encourage this industry, but almost as soon as a Labour government assumes office they make submissions on behalf of Australian fishermen. They complain of adding to the costs of those engaged in this industry, but I remind them that everyone in the community will have to pay additional taxes. The proposals of the present Government do not place on the people so heavy a burden as they would have had to bear under the proposals of theFadden Government and for, that reason they should be grateful for the change of government. I agree with honorable senators opposite that  fish should bc much cheaper than it is. The fault lies, not with the present Labour Government, but with previous governments, which did nothing to assi.it the fishing industry or to provide cheap fish for the people. 
.- A perusal of the first schedule, under which certain items are exempt from sales tax, indicates fairly clearly the intention of the Government to exempt from sales tax equipment necessary for the production of foodstuffs. For instance, under item 11 of the first schedule, equipment, used by poultry fanners such an incubators and other machinery is taxed at 5 per cent. Similarly, under item '7 of the schedule, the equipment necessary for the production of dairy produce is exempted. I find it very difficult to see any difference between the equipment required by fishermen to get fish and put them on the market and equipment necessary to produce poultry. A logical approach to this matter would have resulted in these items being placed on the exempt list. The amendment, however, does not propose that, because they are already on the 5 per cent, list; but it does propose that they shall be left where they are. I join with other honorable senators in urging that the tax on this item be allowed to remain unaltered. The increase of tax on these commodities is likely to retard the development of the fishing industry in Australia and to increase the price of fish to the consumer. It seems rather inconsistent of the Government to exempt fresh fish from sales tax and, at the same time, to double the tax imposed on equipment necessary for the recovery of fresh fish. . The committee would, be doing a service to the country if it acceded to the request of the Leader of the Opposition to amend the bill in the way he has suggested. 
 I have no wish to embarrass the Government in its proposals for raising revenue with which to finance the war; but as so little is involved in the acceptance of the amendment nroposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator MeLeay)  I intend to support it. In response to representations made in the House of Representatives, the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  has already met one-half of the objections that we have raised against the proposed penalizing of the fishing industry by allowing sub-items 4 and 5, covering nets, netting, cotton hemp, twine and other materials used for repairs, lines, hooks, floaters and sinkers for lue in the fishing industry, to remain in the 5 per cent, schedule. These sub-items are similar to the first three. It was always the policy of the right honorable member for Cowper  (Sir Earle Page),  as Leader of the Country party, to endeavour to assist the establishment of industries large or small, particularly the primary industries of Australia. Whilst he invariably sought to impose duties on imports from the Mother Country, he always fought consistently for the admission of machinery and equipment for the establishment of Australian factories free of duty or at the lowest possible rate. The fishing industry is an important Australian primary industry. Apart from pearling the fishing industry is the only industry carried on in northern coastal waters, where fish arc abundant. From Sharks Bay in Western Australia, far remote from the large centres of population, whiting are sent to the Melbourne market in cold storage. Although the Government is anxious to help this industry, the amount of revenue involved in the acceptance of the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition is so small that I trust his appeal will not pass unheeded. 
 If there be one thing that we should do more than anything else it is to foster a sea sense among the people. The British fishermen go into the Arctic regions in order to supply the demand of the British public for cheap fish. There are no more industrious or hard-working people than the men who man the British trawling fleets. They have played an important part in the defence of their country and they are continuing to carry on their great work to-day in spite of its dangers. To a lesser degree these remarks apply to the fishermen in Australia. Why should the Australian fishing industry be left to be manned to such a great degree by foreigners who gain an intimate  knowledge of our coast-line? Apparently we have no means of countering the subversive activities of alien fishermen similar to those by which other countries curb undesirableactivities on the part of their alien inhabitants. It is difficult to understand the Government's attitude towards this matter. As has been said by other honorable senators, the revenue involved in the acceptance of the amendment, proposed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  is not large. The development of the fishing industry means a great deal to this country and will mean much more as the years go by. The high price of fish places it beyond the reach of the average working man. There should be no reason why this form of food should not be obtainable at a price whichwould enable it to be included in the diet of every Australian citizen. 
Because the development of the industry has been retarded. The industry has suffered from the failure of successive governments to adopt long-range plans forits development. Here is an opportunity for the Government to encourage an industry the importance of which is becoming more and more apparent. It should do everything to foster this important Australian activity and not discourage it by imposing increased sales tax on its requirements which can only have the effect of still further increasing the price of fish. 
Before the war complaints were made by fishermen on the Western Australian coast-line from Esperance to Sharks Bay, that they were unable to make a livelihood on account of the competition of alien fishermen. That problem was solved in Western Australia by the internment of most of the alien fishermen. Australian fishermen who donot resort to the dubious practices of Their alien competitors have now been given a chance of earning a livelihood.Fishermen have also frequently complained against the unfair competition caused by the importation of Aberdeen smoked cod and had dock, which they call English fillet. The export of that class of fish has been stopped by the home authorities and our fishermen arc now able to make some headway. At Esperance a number of old-age pensioners are eking out an existence by fishing. However, the Government now says to the fishermen of Australia - In future you shall have to pay an extra 5 per cent. tax on all the gear you need to carry on your industry". In that way, it nullifies the benefits which our fishermen areenjoying as the result of the war conditions already mentioned. The proposal contained in this bill is not just a matter of anextra1s. on a fishing rod or a threepenny piece on a gut line; it goes much further than that.The fishing industry is one of our important primary industries which, in its present stage, needs careful nursing. As the proposal of the. Government to increase the sales tax on the essential requirements of fishermen will have a detrimental effect on the industry, I support the amendment. 
Item 3, fishing equipment, covers boats, including oars, sails, lifebelts, lifeboats and other similar accessories, crayfish pots and engines for use in the fishing industry. Computed on a sales value of £60,000, the revenue involved in the acceptance of the amendment is £3,000. The original proposal of the Government was that the whole of item 3 should be removed from the5 per cent. to the 10 per cent. schedule. Because of representations made to it in the House of Representatives the Government agreed to allow sub-items 4 and 5 to remain at 5 per cent. because it acknowledged that nets, lines and such equipment were goods the replacement of which could not be avoided. They are subject to heavy wear and tear and thus depreciate quickly. In contrast to these goods, boats and engines for boats are notquickly wasting assets, and the sponsors of the original representations realized that it was not unreasonable to expect the postponement of replacements until better times or, if that course were not followed, that the goods should bear the normal rate of sales tax which is borne by other production plant. 
Furthermore, labour arid plant of the kind used to produce such goods as boats and engines is urgently required for the production of the necessaries of war. In these circumstances, the Government is justified in declining to accept the amendment. The gravamen of the criticism directed against this proposal is that the proposed increased tax will still further increase the already high price of fish. This proposed alteration of the rate of tax has no bearing on the price of fish. I agree with the honorable senators that, for sonic reason unknown to us, the price of fish is scandalously high. No Government has yet been able to put its finger on the cause. Even in the metropolitan areas a reasonable meal of fish for three people costs 5s. or 6s. The price of fish will not bc affected by the proposed increased tax on this item.  Senator James  Mclachlan said that there are many items in the schedules which should be exempt. Undoubtedly any honorable senator can point to some items in the schedules which, in his opinion, should not be taxable. It has been said that the amount of revenue involved in the acceptance of the amendment is not very large. I point out that in these difficult days every penny counts and the Government lias to secure revenue wherever it can in order to finance the war effort. In view of that this item is surely not worth the controversy that has arisen over it. I appeal to honorable senators opposite to give to the Government the. same co-operation which honorable, senators on this side of the chamber invariably gave to the previous Government during its period of office.  Senator McBride  might sneer, but the truth is that no financial measure of the Government of the day was opposed by honorable senators on this side when they were in opposition. Certainly, we criticized the Government's measures, just as honorable senators opposite are criticizing this measure In plain language, I "wheel it up" to the Senate that this is .part, of a considered budget, and a scheme designed to enable us to do what all of us want done, namely, the financing of the tremendous project in which the Government is now engaged. For those reasons, I cannot accept the amendment. 
 In my earlier remarks I did net touch upon one, or two features of this proposal, which we are prone to overlook. No honorable senator on this side desires to thwart, the Government in its efforts to raise tthe revenue it requires. But I should willingly subscribeto some other proposal that would affect the community as a whole rather than a proposal of this kind which solely penalizes an industry which is vital to the future development and welfare of this country. I could speak at considerable length on the fishing industry in other countries, and show how some of those people with whom we may come in close contact before we are much older are developing their sea waters to-day. The Minister  (Senator Keane)  has indicated that the amount of revenue involved is only £3,000. No great hardship would be inflicted on. the community if the Government were prepared to forgo that amount. Let us have regard to the history of the fishing industry in other countries. The people of England and Scotland, from where my forbears came, depend largely on the food of the sea for their nutriment. In recent years, Russia, Norway and Sweden have developed the industry to an amazing degree. Our northern neighbours are not far behind them. They are developing the industry on the most modern lines. Their fishing craft venture far out into the Pacific Ocean. Why? In order that they may familiarize themselves with the waters bordering on the lands of their southern neighbours. At the same tunc we have fumbled and fooled with the industry. When I was a Minister I did my best in its interests, and my predecessor. exSenator Daly, did much to develop it. We have embarked on all sorts of forms of manufacture in order to serve a population of 7,000,000. We have sunk enormous capital in various ventures, and have ladled out information upon numerous projects. Yet to-day we say that we must take this sum of £3,000 from an industry which is developing our waters and helping to supply our people with health-giving food. The development of the fishing industry is a project which should appeal to Australians as a whole. However,, it  has been ' neglected. The last thing I desire to do is to vote against the Government on a financial measure ; but I appeal to the Minister to make this gesture to those people in order to assure them that we shall not inflict further burdens upon them. I have seen the efforts of our fishermen at Port Lincoln, and further south, and have been impressed with their humble enterprise. No large company is engaged in the industry, although Melbourne .capital Iras been invested in it in South Australia and, to a smaller degree, in Western Australia. Off the coast of New South Wales and in the Great, Australian Bight we have some of the finest, fishing grounds in the world. Even in a time of war we should not, for the sake of the sum of £3,000, place further burdens on this industry  which,  despite all our past efforts, is sagging. We have brought, men from  overseas to advise us on the industry, and have engaged in scientific research for that purpose. Wc have also sent men abroad to learn what they could of the industry, whilst some of those engaged in it have gone abroad for that purpose at their own expense. I have seen an apparatus in Melbourne into which whiting is fed at one end and comes out at the other end filleted and wrapped in paper. That fish is being supplied to practically' all the hospitals throughout Victoria, and the man who embarked on that venture was one of 'those who went, abroad at his own expense to learn the latest methods in the industry. That is the sort of enterprise Ave should encourage. At Hobart, the harbour is practically choked with fish; there one sees barracoota, in shoals like floors of steel. We know .also that tuna exists in our waters in tremendous quantities. I believe that the Minister is convinced by the arguments of honorable senators on this side. At the same time I realize that, as a Minister, he has to stick to his task. However, I appeal to honorable senators, irrespective of party, to agree to the amendment. I shall not regard the carrying of the amendment, because of the greater numbers of the Opposition, as a victory over the Government, but as an indication that wc realize that this industry is essential to the future welfare of this country and for the better feeding of the people. At a time like the present we should not engage in minor party disputes; I know that some honorable senators- opposite regard the development of this industry as of vital importance to our economic welfare. The right honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin),  when he was Prime Minister, and ex-Senator Daly, when ho was a Minister, co-operated with me in obtain-big more information in regard to the industry. At that time two conferences were called, and, subsequently, when I became  a Minister, I succeeded in getting something done. 1 have never regarded this matter as a party subject. I have devoted -much time and care to the problems of the industry in order to see whether we can stimulate a seasense in our people. Without such a sense I do not look to the future of this country with very great hope. We should get in touch with our sister Dominion of Now Zealand, and co-operate- with it in the development of . the industry. Byour combined efforts wc could produce a supply of fish from. Australian waters which would be amazing. The sum of £3,000 involved in this clause could, I venture to say, bc saved very easily by the Government. It could be saved on petrol through the use of a few more gas-producers. 1 repeat that the industry is in its infancy. A few days ago I noticed in the Melbourne press a statement that a conference of Ministers had been called for the purpose of considering the development of the industry..  Mr. Thompson  lias done much good work on the scientific side, and the captain, whom we brought here from overseas has also done an excellent job. Let us encourage these " little chaps " in the work they are doing. When one drives along the coast one sees lonely fishermen catching crayfish in the inlets here and there.' People need that fish for food, and we should give every encouragement to those fishermen. If we realize the need to encourage the industry, why should wc propose to do something which will affect it adversely? We are now asked to increase the rate of sales tax on a few bits of machinery and plant used in the industry. I appeal to the committee not to agree to the clause, but to return it to the House of Representatives with the intimation that this chamber stands for the development of this national industry. 
That is beside the point. When. I was a Minister I did everything in my power to develop the industry. Unfortunately, the  Endeavour  was sunk, and with it all our valuable records disappeared. If I stand alone, I shall vote for the amendment. I again appeal to the Minister not to place this deterrent upon the industry. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I rise at this stage solely for the purpose of  making an appeal to honorable senators opposite to have some regard, if possible, for the fitness of things. I ask them to give the Government a chance to do first, things first. When  Senator Gibson  so conspicuously crossed the chamber to get  Senator A.  J. McLachlan a glass of water, during his impassioned appeal on behalf of the fishing industry, I thought that the action was not merely kindly, but also was exceedingly fitting. I suggest to honorable senators opposite that in these parlous times when the situation is as bad as we know it to be at present, at least wo should have some regard for propriety. Honorable senators should not waste their eloquence, or the time of the committee, or spoil the Government's opportunity to get on with the task that has been entrusted to it, for the moment at any rate, on an amendment of this description. What are the facts? Not one honorable senator, on this side of the chamber at least, does not realize the great importance of the fishing industry; not. one senator on this side of thechamberhas not given attention to the problem of increasing facilities for the establishment of that industry; and not one honorable senator does not know that there is a. war on. The people of this country are looking to us to get on with the job. If honorable senators have nothing important to contribute to this debate, and arc prepared to co-operate with the Government and allow it, toget on. with its task, there should be no impassioned appeals such as we have listened to on two occasions this afternoon from an honorable senator who is no more sincere in his estimation of the value of the fishing industry to this country than is the Government. Even Russia has been dragged into the discussion. What support does the honorable senator think that he would get if he were to make an appeal in Russia on behalf of the fishing industry such as that which he has just made here? The honorable senator also mentioned Norway - a country which is already under the domination ofthe monster to whose destruction we are devoting all of our energies. What reception would the honorable senator receive in that country if he were to make there an impassioned appeal on behalf of the fishing industry?  Senator Amour  said something this afternoon which should have been sufficient not only to silence most honorable senators opposite, but also to stem the flow of  Senator A.  J. McLachlan's oratory. The item which is the subject of this discussion has been carrying a sales tax of 5 per cent. up to the present without protest from honorable senators opposite. They wait for this Government, which has been in office for only a few weeks, and is confronted with the tremendous task of passing its budget. We do not suggest that this budget is the last word in financial wisdom, but we do claim that it is indecorous to waste valuable time in this way. What will the people think when they learn that this chamber wasted at least an hour talking about fish? Honorable senators opposite who have participated in this discussion, particularly  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, have said in effect: "Get this industry going; never mind what happens to the Avar effort". Although the Minister in charge of the bill made it quite plain that the Government could not and would not accept the amendment which has been moved, honorable senators opposite continued to treat this matter as if it were one of paramount importance. Is the work of Ministers who have so recently assumed office to be hampered, and our war effort to be obstructed by the discussion of a piffling matter such as this? I repeatthat the Government will take first things first. It will render unto Caesar those things which areCaesar's. It will carry out. its various tasks in what it considers to be their correct order of importance. At the moment, our aim is to get this budget through because money is required to carry on the war effort. In the interim we do not propose to tinker with the fishing industry. 
If the Loader of the Senate  (Senator Col lings)  is looking for support in this chamber, I suggest to him that' the fewer the speeches of the kind which he has just delivered, the better. Speaking personally, I resent very much the schoolmasterly and dictatorial attitude which the Leader of the Senate has taken up on more than one occasion since this. Government assumed office. Last week, I asked the honorable senator a perfectly reasonable question- 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the amendment now before the committee. 
That is not a point of order. An honorable senator is not entitled to interrupt the speech of anotherhonorable senator unless he has a. definitepoint of order to raise. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in continuing his speech on those lines. 
Honorable senators should have at least some knowledge of the Standing Orders. If an honorable senator has been misrepresented by another honorable senator, he has an opportunity by means of a personal explanation to correct- any misstatements. 
I am sorry if I imparted any heat in my observation?, but I feel very strongly on this question, and I suggest to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  that in his effort to whip us into submission, he simply drew a red herring across the trail. Perhaps on this occasion a red herring is rather appropriate, and there is nobody more capable of drawing red herrings across the trail than the Minister. I assure him that my observations were not made in a party spirit. If I were the only one holding the view which I expressed I should still vote against the item. It may be that I am the cause of all this trouble, but I do feel that in the interests of the nation the amendment should be agreed to, or we shall do an injuryto an important industry. I suggest to the Leader of the Senate that two wrongs do not make a right. My conscience was offended when the  5  per cent. sales tax was originally placed on this item. As the honorable senator knows, that imposition was made in very gravecircumstances indeed, but the wrong should not be perpetuated. Nobody recognizes more than I do the burden which has been cast on honorable senators opposite who have just takentheir places on the treasury bench. However, I urge them to look upon this matter in a broad sense. It appals one to think that for a mere  £3,000  a Government would take this action against an expanding industry. Honorable senators opposite surely are not seeing things in their proper perspective. I realize that similar arguments could be advanced in relation to other items, but this industry is of national importance. It is vital to the future of this country. I askthe Minister in charge ofthe bill to review the matter again before finally rejecting the amendment, I am sure that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  does not wish to obstruct the Government. I believe that honorable senators opposite hold the same views on this amendment as we do; if theydo not, they are not acting in the best interests of Australia. 
In pursuance of the direction you have given,  Mr. Chairman,  I should like to take the opportunity of putting myself right with myself at least. On the one hand,  Senator Foll  objects to my schoolmasterly attitude,and suggests that if I were less dictatorial and less angry, the Government might get the support of the Opposition. On the other baud, if I do not mendmy ways, apparently we shall lose that support. 
I deny that I have been scoolmasterly and dictatorial, and most certainly I was not angry. 
Apparently' honorablesenator's areso unaware of the great virtue of earnestness that they are inclined to mistake earnestness for anger. The type of earnestness which  Senator A.  J. McLachlan exhibited does not impress me at all. Neither was I impressed by  Senator Foil's  speech in which he mentioned not one word in regard to the fishing industry. I confined my remarks to the discussion of the position of the fishing industry. If we are to understand that we cannot get the co-operation of honorable senators opposite because they do not like my manner, the colour of the eyes of honorable senators on the Government side, or the cut of their clothes, we shall know how much reliance can be placed on their boasted willingness to cooperate. I makethe definite statement now that as long as I am leader in this chamber I do not propose to allow derogatory remarks to hemade concerning the Government or the party of which I am a member without protest. If my sincerity is questioned, I shall retort in the most effective languagethat I can command. Whilst, I have great respect for  Senator Foll,  I have no intention to let honorable senators "get away" with any reflections that they may care to cast upon the Labour party or Labour principles. I shall resent such remarks, and I remind the Opposition that the Government intends to adhere to its programme of legislation until effect has been given to it. 
In discussing the position of the fishing industry,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan appropriately made a remark about a red herring, yet he took us to Russia and Norway. He said that if honorable senators on the government side acted in conformity with their conscience, they would not, favour the increase of the sales tax on the equipment required by those engaged in the fishing industry. I resent that insult. 
If I have said anything which  Senator A.  J. McLachlan considers to be a reflection upon himself, and if hedesires me to withdraw it, I am prepared to do so without reservation; but I point out that the honorable senator said that honorable senators sitting on the Government side, if allowed to vote according to their conscience, would support the amendment and not the proposal of the Government. That was the insult that I resented. I withdraw the remark to which exception has been taken, and leave the honorable senator to the contemplation of the situation. 
Honorable senators sitting behind the Government, like honorable senators of the Opposition, when they were in office, support the decision of the Government in this matter. The discussion has revealed that one member of this chamber is an expert on the subject of the fishing industry, and henceforward we shall know  Senator A.  J. McLachlan as the piscatorial senator. I listened to his remarks with great interest. When the Scullin Government was in office, ex-Senator Daly did valuable ministerial work in encouraging the development of the fisheries of the Commonwealth. The sum of £3,000 may not seem large, but all of the revenue budgeted for by the Government is required. When the Opposition was in power, its legislative proposals were, for the most part, fully supported by the Labour party, although some of the measures "got under their skins". I urge that this item be agreed to, and I have no doubt that, when world conditions become normal, an adjustment of the sales tax favorable to those engaged in the fishing industry will be made. 
.- The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  and the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  both seem to resent any criticism of their taxation measures by the Opposition, but I point out, that, only eleven months ago those Ministers were much more emphatic than any member of the present Opposition in their objection to the application of the sales tax to the fishing industry. They should be prepared to give and take a little in these matters, and should not become over excited. 
I should not have risen but for statements made by the Leader of the Senate. Only six weeks ago the previous Government reviewed the sales tax as it applied to the fishing industry, and decided in its wisdom that it would not be in the best interests of Australia to impose sales tax on equipment used in the industry. 
Question put - 
Thatthe words proposed to he left out. he left out  (Senator Mcleay's amendment). 
I move - 
That the words "Divisions ITT. and IV.," be left out with a. view to insert in lieu thereof the words "Division III., Items8. 9, 11, 12, 13 and 14 ". 
If my amendment be agreed to, item 10, sub-item 1, of Division IV. - " Fish of Australian origin, including crayfish, prawns, crabs and other marine animals, marketed in tins, jars or similar containers would remain in the 5 per cent. group, and not be placed in the 10 per cent. group as proposed by the Government. I shall not discuss the amendment at length, except to say that an increase of the sales tax on these important items of foodstuff, which are the product of a recently established industry, would be unwise, especially as the revenue involved is not likely to be considerable. 
 All that the amendment seeks to achieve is the retention of certain fish foods in the 5 per cent, list. By the vote just taken, the committee has decided that boats, nets and other equipment used by fishermen shall be subject to a sales tax of only 5 per cent. I suggest that, in order to be consistent, the fish which is produced by that equipment should be placed in the same category. As some honorable senators may think that this is a small item, I point out that during 1939 fish to the value of over £1,000,000 was imported into Australia. I trust that the Minister will see his way to accept the amendment. 
 In this item an annual revenue of £10,500 is involved. The plea put forward for retaining in the 5 per cent. list canned fish and. imported fish preserved by the cold process is that these foodstuffs are consumed largely by persons in remote portions of the Commonwealth. That is true in some degree, but the greater proportion of this class of goods is disposed of in the metropolitan districts. Indeed, some of these goods rarely, if ever, are seen in the outback. They really come within the category of luxuries. There are no means by which the fish consumed in outback districts can be segregated from the luxury lines which are consumed in the big centres of population. The cost of excluding the whole item would be out of proportion to the relief afforded to the people of the outback. For these reasons, the Government is unable to accept the amendment. 
SenatorE. B. JOHNSTON  (Western Australia) [5.27].  -  I voted against the Governmenton the previous item because a definite principle was involved. Under normal conditions I am opposed to the sales tax altogether. It, is a. form of taxation which can be justified only under abnormal conditions. To its credit, previous governments did not increase the rate of tax on the items now under consideration, hut the responsibility for doing so rests with the Government which has introduced these proposals as part of its budget plan. Unless some very definite principle be involved. I do not propose to deal in detail with a long list of amendments, and say"I shall support, this" or "I shall oppose that". I should like to see this class of legislation removed from the statute-book altogether, but if it be a part, of the policy of the Government, Iam pledged not to harass this, or any other government, during the war, where no question of principleis involved. I shall therefore vote against, the  amendment,  and also against most of the other amendments which have been foreshadowed. The responsibility for raising revenue rests with the Government, I do not like this means of raising money, but 1 realize that a nation at war must, have revenue. Unless good reasons exist I am not willing to support any action which would deprive the Government, of hundreds of thousands of pounds under existing war conditions. 

 Senator leckie (Victoria) [5.29].- I do not know whether I misunderstood the Minister, but I think that he said that £10,500 is involved in this item. 
 Yes. 
SenatorKeane.  -  The revenue involved is £10,500 on a sales value of £210,000. 
.- I wish to make my position clear. I. intend to support the Government on this item. I was prepared to test the committee on the previous item, because, as  Senator A.  J. McLachlan pointed out, an important principle was at stake. However, I realize the obligation of the Government to obtain revenue; thu means it devises to that end are its responsibility. The Government has decided to enter this field in order to obtain the money that it needs, and, for my part, I shall oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
I propose to move that item 15, Division IV., be left out because I am opposed to increasing the sales tax on Australian cider. For some time campaigns Iia ve been conducted with the object of inducing the people of this country to use more apples. Suggestions have been made that greater quantities of apples should be consumed either in evaporated form or as cider. There is no more wholesome beverage than Australian cider if it be properly made. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  may remember that John Ridd, the hero of R. D. Blackmore's novel  Lorna Doone,  made a habit of drinking 2 gallons of cider every night before going to bed. He must indeed have been a "he-man" to consume that quantity. I submit that the Government's proposal is unsound from a health point of view. I add that I am not commercially interested in the production of cider. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Amendment of Third Schedule). 
.- Can the Minister state how much revenue would be lost by retaining in the 10 per cent, schedule the goods included in subitem 12, which comprises tooth paste, dental paste, dental powder and preparations of that kind? What reasons actuated the .Government's decision to increase the tax on these goods? 
 On the basis of a sales value of £300,000, the loss of revenue if dentifrices were retained in the 10 per cent, field would be £30,000. Tooth brushes, which are of far more importance in dental hygiene than dentifrices, were included in the 20 per cent, field hy the previous Government. Dentifrices are not essential goods.  Dr. August  A. Thomen, lecturer in medicine, College of Medicine, New York University, says of them - 
It should be more generally known that no toothpaste or tooth powder can have any therapeutic (curing) action of any definite significance whatever ... lt can be proved conclusively that a quarter teaspoon of baking soda and an equal amount of table salt in a half glass of water will accomplish as much as the most costly dentifrice no matter how high sounding a. name it may have or how enthusiastically it may be sponsored on the radio . . . If one- uses toothpaste it should be regarded .merely as a more or less pleasant-tasting  luxury . . . Any dentifrice which will remove tartar, prevent decay or inhibit or cure pyorrhoea or other mouth diseases either is a downright fake or. is not safe to use. 
The Government does not believe that a legitimate claim, can be made for the treatment of tooth paste differently from other toilet articles. 
.- Although I am obliged to the Minister for the explanation he has given and accept his figures as correct, the information that has been supplied to him on this subject is so utterly opposed to opinions expressed hy medical authorities as to make it appear that his quotation was a rather fortuitous discovery. I should have thought that the honorable senator would have realized that, according to most authorities, the general health of the people depends to a very great degree upon their dental health. The committee should not agree to the imposition of a tax that will increase the price of tooth pastes. Every one realizes how important is the proper care of teeth, particularly of children in their early years. However, as the Minister has told us that no less than £30,000 would be lost if an amendment to retain these items in the 10 per cent, class were agreed to, I shall not do anything further in the matter. 
Does sub-item 12 include pastes or sterilizing agents used for the purpose of combating pyorrhoea and dental diseases of that kind, or does it refer only to cleansing pastes ? 
Clause-agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report adopted. 
Thirdreading. 
Motion (by  Senator Keane)  proposed - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 
.- This bill affects every member of the community, particularly every business man. It is impossible for the ordinary layman to follow the vast number of amendments that have been made to the sales tax legislation since it was first passed in 1930. If anybody asked the Minister for a copy of the Sales Tax Acts it would be necessary to provide him with no fewer than 36 measures. I trust that when this bill becomes law, the principal acts will be reprinted in consolidated form so that any business man may have the whole matter at his fingers' ends. I can understand the Government's object in bringing downan amending bill because, by doing so, it confines the debate to the particular clauses that are to be amended ;but I see no reason whythe legislation should not be published in consolidated form immediately after this bill becomes law. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos. 1  to  9) 1941. 
Secondreading. 
Debate resumed from the 19th November  (vide  page 521), on motion by  Senator Keane  - 
That the bills be now read a second time. 
As these nine bills are complementary to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classification) Bill which the Senate has just passed, I do not propose to delay their passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time. 
In the circumstances these measures should not be proceeded with. The Senate could allow the bills to go into committee and progress could then be reported on the first clause. 
Bills committed  pro forma. 
I  move - 
That thebill be now read a  second  time. 
The object of the bill is to validate, up to and including the 31st March, 1942, the collection of duties set out in the customs tariff resolution of the 2nd July, the 25th September and the29th October, 1941. The proposals of the two former dates were introduced by previous governments, and the last mentioned by the present Government. Since this. Government assumed office, time has not permitted the debating of these proposals in Parliament nor the full consideration of the proposals of the 2nd July and the 25th September, 1941, by the present Government. This consideration will be given as early as practicable; but unless validation be agreed to, the proposals of the 2nd July,  1941,  will lapse as from the 3rd January, 1942, and the revenue will be seriously affected. The object of including the 25th September and the 29th October,  1941,  proposals in the present bill is to bring all customs proposals at present before Parliament into line as regards the period of validation, namely, the 31st March, 1942. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator 
McLeay) adjourned. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the bill is to validate, until the 31st March, 1942, the collection of the special war duty imposed by the proposals of the 2nd July, 1941. The special war duty was imposed for wartime revenue purposes. It is not possible to debate the proposals at this stage, but it is necessary to validate collections made thereunder in order to safeguard the revenue. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
.  - I move - 
That the bill be now read a. second time. 
The bill provides for the validation of the collection of the protective duty imposed on lifting jacks of Canadian origin by customs tariff (Canadian preference) proposals of the 2nd July,  1941.  The period of validation is the sameas for the customs tariff proposals, namely, until the 31st March, 1942. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
.  -  I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The customs tariff (New Zealand) preference proposals, introduced on the 2nd July and the 29th October, 1941, provide for the imposition of a special duty on chewing gum confectionery of New Zealand origin, and the bill seeks to validate the collection of duty thereunder until the 31st March, 1942. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
.- I move - 
That the billbe now read a second time. 
The excise tariff proposals covered by the bill were introduced on the 2nd May, 1940, the 20th August, 1940, the 2nd July, 1941, and the 29th October, 1941. The two first-named were reintroduced on the 21st. November, 1940, and the 11th December, 1940, respectively. The proposals, which were first introduced on the 2nd May, 1940, embodied increased duties on petrol, and formed part of a previous government's budget proposals for 1940-41. Those of the 20th August, 1940, gave effect to a previous government's decision to grant protection to local producers of petrol and petrol substitutes from indigenous shale and coal. The proposals of the 2nd July, 1941, provided for the duty-free delivery of locally refined petrol to members of the diplomatic corps located in Australia, consular representatives, &amp;c. Previously, duty-free delivery of petrol to these officials applied only to the imported refined petrol. The proposals of the 29th October, 1941, embodied increased excise duties complementary to the present Government's budget proposals for 1941-42. The four schedules mentioned arc still in the proposal stage, and it is intended that the period of validation be the same as for the customs tariff proposals, namely, until the 31st March, 1942. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator .  McLea y ) a d jou rued . 

 Sitting suspended from 6.5 to8 p.m. 

Prior to the adjournment of this debate yesterday, I was saying that had the previous Government taken heed of what happened during the last war and in the post-war years, it would have realized that the general public requires something more than mere promises, in order to ensure a 100 per cent. war effort; that the workers require something tangible, such as an instalment of the much talked of new order. Had steps been taken to provide such an instalment most of the troubles which were experienced by the previous Government would not have occurred. If some ameliorative conditions had been introduced the Government would have been accepted in good faith and a much better war effort would have resulted. I am pleased to see that  Senator Foll  who was absent when I spoke yesterday is now in the chamber. The honorable senator commenced his dissertation - probablydiatribe is a better word - by stating that this budget was not nearly so good as the Fadden budget because all the good points of the Fadden budget had been omitted. However, the honorable senator did express one view concerning which the Opposition is apparently unanimous, namely, that compulsory saving should be introduced. That is rather strange ina party which has no caucus. I must join issue with  Senator Foll  and all honorable senators opposite who believe in compulsory saving. I believe that the man on the basic wage will have to endure certain privations if he is compelled to save something out of his meagre earnings. Probably his wife will have difficulty in balancing her household budget. That is" bread and butter " economics. It seems that quite a number of honorable senators opposite are still living in the days of the rope's end and the marline spike. They should realize that those days are. past, and will not return. I do not wish to occupy the time of the Senate by speaking at length, because I haveno desire to waste time. 
I am glad that the honorable senator has interjected because he has reminded me of a story which I told yesterday, and which I wish to amend, showing the ramifications of the circulating sovereign. I pointed out that when I contributed money to a trade union that money was put in a bank and. the union received the current rate of interest for it. The money would then be loaned to an employer. Then, should I happen to lose my employment 1 might have to apply for work at a factory 'the construction of which I had assisted by means of my contribution to the union. I might be successful in getting a job provided the employer was satisfied that I could show a 15 .per cent, or 20 percent, return for the money which he would have to spend on my wages. I should like to amend that story slightly, because at. present, under the cost-plus system, any one can get a job. That system has been responsible for much of the trouble to which reference has been made in the course of this debate. Had the system not been introduced I am convinced that the people of Australia would have been saved many millions of pounds, and the need for more stringent taxation might not have arisen. 
In conclusion I make a suggestion which would have been useful to honorable senators opposite had they still been in occupation of the treasury bench, and which no doubt will be of some assistance to the members of my party who are now charged with the responsibility of carrying on the government of this country. The real solution of all our industrial troubles lies in the need for the calling of a conference of representatives qualified to speak for various interests including trade unions, employers, manufacturers, and even bankers. Such a conference could be charged with the responsibility of deciding upon a reasonable standard of living. Wages could then be fixed in accordance with that standard and prices could be pegged to prevent undue rises. The only changes  permissible  in wages would be increases or decreases in accordance with cost of. living figures prepared by the Statistician. That is a little more bread-and-butter, economics. I am satisfied that this Government is doing what its .predecessor failed to do, namely, it is giving the workers a small instalment of the  muchtalkedof  new order. 
I do not think that honorable senators opposite will attempt to prevent the Government, from giving that, little instalment to the workers, nor do I think they will prevent the Government from, giving a much larger instalment in the supplementary budget which is to be introduced early in the new year. I believe that this Government will achieve a. 100 per cent, war effort; I believe that, it will inspire confidence. In fact it has already inspired confidence in the masses of the people, and it is the force of opinion outside of Parliament which deters honorable senators opposite from putting up a serious fight, against this Government's proposals. I sympathize with- honorable senators opposite. I realize that they have to fill in their time-sheets, and satisfy their bosses-; but even if they do so, when, the next general elections are held they will face defeat and pay 'their own election expenses as well. 
, - Small differences of opinion were responsible for the defeat of the budget introduced by the Fadden Government, and because of that defeat the Labour party now finds itself in occupation of the treasury bench. The present budget is in some respects complimentary to the previous Government. By that I mean that the structure of this budget is similar to that of the Fadden budget, but whereas the Fadden budget was built on sound foundations, this budget does not observe the same sound financial principles. I should like to make a comparison between the two budgets and hr doing so I realize that the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  had a tremendous task in preparing a completely new budget in the short time at his disposal. I realize, also, that to' some degree he had to follow decisions arrived at by the previous Government. There is no doubt that this budget will give the people a great deal to think about. It provides for' the expenditure in one year of £325,000,000, which is an extraordinarily large .amount for a country with a population of 7,000,000. In addition, it is stated that in the near future a supplementary budget will be introduced. In preparing this budget th( Government bad to accept the advice of its military advisers as to the sums which should be expended in the war effort during the next twelve months. The irreducible minimum of war expenditure is given as £217,000,000. At this juncture I should like to point out to honorable senators opposite that the Government is in just as precarious a position as was the Eadden Government; it has a majority of two in the House of Representatives. and those two honorable members are just as likely to desert this Government as they deserted the Fadden Government. Although  Senator Aylett  remarked that members of the Opposition, in seeking the formation of a national government, were endeavouring to put life back into a corpse, he may find that the present Government will be forced to ask the Opposition to help it in securing a 100 per cent, war effort. I defy the Government to obtain such an effort while it is balanced on a political knife-edge, and may at any time be compelled to face the electors. Members of the Opposition will be glad to assist in carrying on the governmental affairs of this country at this difficult and critical period. The day after the present Government took office, I had a conversation with one of its supporters. As he seemed to have a worried appearance, I asked him if anything had happened to his .5on. who is serving with the fighting force.' overseas. He replied, " No. I have just had a letter from my son, who is in an officers', training school at Moascar,  some distance outside Cairo, and the trend of his letter was that he was working from daylight till dark. Among those attending the school are Indians, South Africans, Australians, Britishers, Free French, and soldiers from other sections of the Allied Forces. All are working together in harmony with the one object of defeating the enemy. My son said that he could not understand why politicians in Australia who were all of one nationality were squabbling and trying to get- at. each other's throats". The' writer of that letter gave some idea of the thoughts of the men who are fighting for us overseas. They realize that we should put party politics into the background at this critical time. I suggest that if parliamentarians could pull together in the same way as the Allied troops overseas, a maximum war effort would be assured. In the event of a national government now being formed, I contend that it should be established on the basis of an electoral majority, and not on the basis of party political cunning and intrigue. In other words the decision of the people should bc sought. 
The budget provides for an increase of £7,500,000 in the pay of the members of our fighting forces. I admit that that is a popular action on the part of the Government. The previous Administration realized the desirability of such an increase, and provision was made for it in the Fadden budget by means of deferred pay. There is no way in which we can assess the amount that should be paid to those who are prepared to risk their lives in the defence of this country. They are worthy of any remuneration that a generous public can give to them. I claim that the proposal of the Fadden Government to provide the increase in the form of deferred pay was an admirable one. During the last war, I enjoyed my periods of leave most of all when I had little money. The hospitality extended to the troops was so great that they suffered no serious disadvantage in not having their pockets full of cash. We should not overlook the fact that our fighting forces in the Middle East comprise troops in receipt of varying rates of pay. Australians in Cairo during the last war, were willing to pay for food double, and sometimes three times, the' prices which the British " tommies " could afford to pay. Actually, the Australian soldier was no better off financially than his British confrere. Probably, our troops overseas would prefer to have the extra pay to spend at the present, time, but many of those who served in the last war would have been glad of a lump sum on their return, to Australia to assist them in re-establishing themselves in civil life.  
The increase of invalid and oldage pensions is also a very popular move on the part of the Government. This is not an increase at which we should cavil, but 1. suggest that the Government might have considered whether the extra money  expended should not have been used for providing pensions for widows and orphans. The increase .to 23s. 6d. a week will cost £1,022.000 for the remainder of this .financial year, and the cost of the proposed increase next year tei 25s.' a week will be £3,100,000. This amount, would go a. long way to assist, widows and orphans in the direction indicated. I doubt whether this is an opportune time for such an increase of the invalid and old-age pension. We ha ve been told that every .penny of revenue is needed for the prosecution of the war, and we should ask whether we can afford to expend such a. large sum in increasing pensions. War requirements come first with regard not, only to expenditure, hut also planning for the post-war period. Next, to our war needs comes improved social security. The previous Government was well aware of the need for measures to improve social security, and consequently it introduced child endowment. Certain social measures could be brought down now 'whilst others must wait until after the war. Legislation providing for unemployment insurance could well be introduced at present, because employment and wages in Australia have never been at a higher level than now, and there is an excellent opportunity to establish a fund which would be of the utmost value when employment in the war industries ceases. I advocate a system of unemployment, insurance whereby the contributions to the fund would be made by the employers, employees, and the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  and the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  have stated that it is essential to use up sonic of the large floating wage fund now in Australia. By using some of that money for unemployment insurance, we need not interfere with our war effort. The prosecution of the war to a successful conclusion would still remain our first consideration. When the present Government took office it had the advantage of the experience and achievements of its predecessors during two years of wai-. In that period there had been a change-over from civil production to war activities. There was much planning and preparatory work to .be done before Australia's war industries got into full swing. Before the outbreak of war Australia had a small permanent force, and a Militia which, on paper, represented a force of 35,000 men. During the two years of war approximately 400,000 men have enlisted .for service overseas and in Australia. The raising of that force has meant a tremendous amount of organization in the preparation of camps,  the  supply of equipment, the training of instructors, and all the other activities associated, with the equipping and training of a modern ' army. The personnel of the Navy also has grown, and to-day the number of men in that arm of our fighting services is three times what it was when war broke out. In September, 1939, the Royal Australian Air Force consisted of two and a half squadrons, containing S22 officers and other ranks; the personnel is now eighteen times what it was then. In collaboration with Great Britain and the other members of the British Commonwealth of Nations, the Menzies Government participated in the Empire air training scheme which provides for the training of an unlimited number of air pilots. Before the present Governmnent took office, arrangements had been made for the expenditure of £60,000,000 in connexion with that scheme. The objective set before Australia at the inauguration of that scheme has been maintained'; indeed, Australia is ahead of schedule. It is only fair that the people of this country should know what the situation was when the present Government took office. I congratulate the present Minister for Air  (Mr. Drakeford)  in that during the short time he- had been in office, he has been able to establish a special army co-operation school. Such an institution has been needed for some- time. Present-day strategy appreciates the heed- for the fullest co-operation between the air and the ground personnel in both attack and retreat. As the result of the establishment of this school we shall be able to train men in those necessary operations. 
When war broke out Australia had nine factories for the manufacture of munitions of war; in September of this year there were more than 100 annexes making munitions. The value of the munitions produced in Australia when  war broke out was under £2,000,000 a year; this year the production is valued at £32,000,000. The previous Government had planned ahead, and it hoped to produce in 1941-42 munitions valued at £76,000,000. In 1939 there were only 12,000 employees in government munitions factories, compared with 58,000 in July of this year. The previous Government had made arrangements whereby the number of such employees would be increased to 170,000 by June, 1942. It is estimated that 200,000 men and women are now engaged directly or indirectly in the manutacture of munitions. 
I answer that interjection by asking where the Government hopes to get the 400,000 workers mentioned in the Treasurer's budget. 
I agree with  Senator Large  that adequate supplies of machine tools are essential before Australia can hope to make any great advance in the production of war materials. The previous Government was aware of that fact. The men who were set the task of equipping Australian factories with the machine tools necessary for the manufacture of munitions and other war materials, including aeroplanes, had to overcome many obstacles. In 1939 only four companies in Australia were manufacturing machine tools; to-day there are 131 such establishments. A tremendous effort and a proper system of co-ordination were necessary in order to achieve that result.  Senator Large,  who knows a great deal more about this subject than I do, will agree that what has been achieved would have been impossible without those tools. 
That is so, and Australian workmen will make them, but I repeat that two years ago there were only four companies in" Australia making machine tools, compared with . 131 companies engaged in that work to-day. Twelve months ago only about 10 per cent. of the machine tools required for the manufacture of munitions were produced in Australia, whereas to-day 70 per cent, of such tools are of local manufacture.By the end of December, 1943, theprevious Government hoped that all of themachine tools required would be obtainable in Aus tralia. I have no reason to fear thatthe present Government will fail tocontinue the good work begun by its predecessors 
Until shortly before thecommencement of the war Australia had notcommenced to manufacture aircraft. I think that I am right in saying that Australia is the only country which hasproceeded from the manufacture of stationary engines directly to the manufacture of aeroplane engines withoutpassing through the intermediate stageofthe manufacture of motor-car engines. Australian workshops were asked to produce aeroplane engines, and they respondedby producing them. These engines are now being made in Australia by mass production methods. To the end of September last Australian factories had produced aeroplanes valued at over £.10,000,000, and had delivered over 1,000 aeroplanes to the Air Force for either reconnaissance work or training purposes. Moreover, the previous Government had made arrangements to produce 500 more aeroplanes by the 31st January, 1942. During the financial year 1941-42 Australian factories expect to produce aeroplanes, including bombers, to the value of £20,000,000. A good deal has been said about the Beaufort bomber. I am pleased to see that only yesterday the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  visited the works in Sydney, where he was able to see the progress that had taken place in the manufacture of aircraft. The credit must go to a previous Government for laying the foundation of this industry. 
That is so; but the Government of the day was responsible for the policy of the country, just as the present Government is responsible to-day. 
In my opinion, the tremendous development of Australia's war industries would have been impossible without the active co-operation and the organizing experience of such companies as General 
Motors-HoldensLimited, Australian Consolidated Industries Limited and the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. The wonderful results that we have achieved are, in great measure, due to those well-organized concerns. In saying that, I include their employees, without whose active co-operation no industry can succeed. In these large industries there has been the fullest cooperation between employers and employees. It is interesting to note that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, at which honorable senators opposite point the finger of scorn at every possible opportunity, charging it with profiteering and with taking advantage of the needs of the country in time of war to enrich the pockets of its shareholders, madea total profit, in  1940  of  £2,373,761.  In the same year its distributed profit amounted to  £1,282,006,  upon which a tax of  £1,091,755  was paid. In  1941,  after a. year of war, and naturally a year of great expanding business in the production of war materials, the total profit earnedby the company was  £3,513,290,  ofwhich it distributed  £.1,550,214,  and paid in tax an amount of  £1,966,076. 
Probably the honorable senator knows more about the capital of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited than T. do. I have not the figures before me. It will be seen from the figures which I 'have just cited that the tax imposed upon the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited in  1941  exceeded its distributed profits by over  £400,000.  We have also to remember that this company has already expended on machinery for use only in the production of materials of war no less than  £1,500,000.  We have often been told, and I think it is a fact, that the bulk of the machinery which is in use for war production will be of very little use when we reach the transition stage from war-time to peace-time activities. This is a time of great prosperity in Australia ; but we must all realize that it is a false and very dangerous prosperity. The fact that we are far removed from the theatres of war is apt to let us view with complacency the tremendous struggle that is going on overseas. At present Russia is bearing the full brunt of the onslaught of the German hordes. We have bad successes in Syria and Irak; the news from the Atlantic in the past few weeks has been much brighter; help from the United States of America is increasing week by week, and our own troops overseas, with the exception of the gallant defenders of Tobruk, are enjoying a temporary respite. All of this is apt to create a feeling of complacency which makes it difficult to bring home to the Australian people the important fact that large numbers of reinforcements are needed and that a great deal of money is necessary to carry on our war effort. We know that our troops will shortly be engaged in the Middle East, and, therefore, we should take the greatest possible advantage of this brief breathing space to build up our reinforcements and train them so that they will be fit to take the place of those who are killed or wounded when our troops once again engage the enemy. In view ofthat, a full review of the man-power position is most necessary and urgent. We should find out exactly where the available man-power of Australia can best be placed in order to further the war effort. Duplication takes place in many walks of life, and it is highly desirable at this critical stage in our history that men should be weeded out of jobs which do not give them scope for their abilities. 
The proposal of. the Government to establish a long-term mortgage bank branch of the Commonwealth Bank fills a long-felt want among the country people. The sooner it is established, the better it will be appreciated by primary producers.  Senator Darceymentioned  that a friend of his, a Queensland farmer, hadbeenbadly treated and put of his property by the banks because he could not pay off his mortgage.  His  experience was entirely different from mine and from what has been told to me by many primary producers. 
Probably the hon orable senator was misinformed. I have found that the banks and financial  institutions in the north-west of Queensland, the work of which I am conversant with, have greatly assisted the primary producers by writing off debts and interest accounts. 
I am referring to the private banks as a whole and financial brokers. The private banks have written off the debts of farmers to a much greater amount than any of the State governments. 
Yes ; he related his experiences. I am giving mine. My experience is that the banks and financial houses have treated extremely generously those who have played straight with them. I can produce undoubted proof that they have done that in the past and that they are still doing it. Many farmers in the north-west ofQueeusland, owing to droughts, were forced fo secure heavy overdrafts and -lost their stock through rain coming at the wrong time. They have been restocked and their commitments have been reduced considerably by the institutions that financed them. 
I notice that it is proposed to reduce the vote for the Department of Information by £S0,000. I trust that this will not involve any reduction of the service provided by the News Bureau in New York. The bureau referred to has done a wonderful job for Australia and the proposal to reduce its vote is a great mistake. This budget, provides for an expenditure in 1941-42 of £324,965,000. The means to be used for the raising of this huge suan of money are much the same as those intended to be used by the Fadden Government. In this respect the structure of the two budgets is very similar, but their, foundations differ very considerably. After paying taxes at the present rates collections would amount to £164,965,000, That leaves a gap of approximately £160,000,000, of which £66,000,000 it is hoped will be raised by borrowing, as was done last year. In regard to borrowing, the difference between last year's budget and the revised budget now before us is that last year we were building up the war effort to its peak. The peak has not yet been reached, . but. we are getting very elo.se to it. This extra borrowed money could be absorbed in industry, but once the peak is reached, it is questionable whether it could be so absorbed without having a disastrous effect on the economic and financial equilibrium of industry. After the £66,000.000 has been borrowed, there still remains to be found an amount of £94,000,000, or £13 a head of the population. The income tax imposed on incomes up to £1,500 is to remain unaltered; but, in" respect of incomes in excess of £2,500, the tax is to rise very steeply to 16s. Sd. in the £1. I have nothing to say against that. I realize that the Government has to find the money by some means or other to wage the war and that the methods that it uses are entirely its own concern. Whether or not there will be repercussions is the Government's affair. The people on whom this high rate of tax is imposed will simply have to " take it". I presume that they will "take it" and carry on with a smile. I point out that from those people in receipt of incomes in excess of £2,500 per annum the Government, in what I term this conscription of wealth, will receive in taxes only £6,000,000. Wealth is more evenly divided in Australia than in any other country. An enormous amount of income in Australia will not be taxed under this budget; "but I suggest that a considerable proportion of the revenue required by the Government could be drawn from that field without causing serious disability to the people concerned. I shall deal with that aspect later. I propose now to address myself briefly to the Government's  company  tax proposals. This tax will operate harshly on many grazing interests which are run as companies. The profits of the grazing industry are not static. It depends for profits upon favorable seasons which are unpredictable. Very often it&gt; happens that graziers will suffer losses for three consecutive years and in the fourth year, owing to favorable seasonal conditions, may show a profit of 20 per cent. From my reading of the budget these grazing companies will be taxed at the rate of:,78' per" cent! on profit over '16 per cent., and at the rate of 6 per cent., rising for every 1 per cent, of profit above 6 per cent, up to 16' per cent. That rate of tax will make it very difficult for such companies to recover the losses incurred in bad years. It is well known that a grazier in some years will experience losses for perhaps two or three consecutive years but he expects to make up the losses in bad years in his one good year. 
He will not be taxed if he makes losses. 
After allowing for the revenue to he raised by taxation and borrowings  an  amount of £7.5,000,000 remains to be raised. Approximately £3,000,000 of that sum is to be raised through the sales tax. As I have already said, that is the Government's responsibility. However, I have always maintained that the sales tax places an unfair burden upon the family man. After raising  £S,000,Q00 by  sales tax, the sum of £72,000,000 must still be raised under this budget. It is at this point that- the foundation of this budget differs entirely from that of the Eadden budget. The Fadden budget contained concrete proposals by which it was intended to raise that amount However, this budget is very vague in that respect. This Government has given no indication as to how it will raise that £72,000,000. We are told that it will be forthcoming from loans and credits, al though we have already budgeted to raise £66,000,000 in that way. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  has suggested that the people on the lower levels of income will provide it voluntarily through the purchase of war savings certificates or by subscriptions to loans. That is very vague. 
We have been given no surety that that amount will be provided. As it is so large a sum, however, definite proposals should be placed before Parliament to show us how' the  Government intends  to raise it. I suggest that it could easily be raised out of the increased wages bill which, from figures I have secured, increased in 1941-42 by from £140,000,000 to £150,000,000 above the pre-war -level. That is a huge reservoir of money from which a considerable proportion of this amount of £72,000,000 could be secured. On this point I bring to the notice of honorable senators the following report of a statement made by the Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, when speaking at the recent annual federal congress of the Returned Soldiers League held in Brisbane : - " Wc arc making conditions too profitable for eligible men to enlist,"  said the Premier of  Queensland,  Mr. Forgan  Smith, at the opening of the 26th  annual Federal congress of the Returned Soldiers' League. " There is more money- in circulation in Australia to-day than ever before," he added. "The whole nation will soon have to be mobilised on a war footing. We must bo as ruthless fis the .enemy." 
The congress unanimously carried n motion urging the Federal Government to  conscript  all industry, man-.power, and wealth, and use them for the war effort. 
That is the view of a Labour, premier. I suggest that the Government might make conditions less profitable for men eligible to enlist whilst, at the same time, providing more money for the soldiers. I hope that the Prime Minister's expectations that a large proportion of the £72,000,000 will be forthcoming in voluntary contributions.   Extension of time granted.']  The country urgently needs money. I hope that the great majority of our people by the end of this year or *by the beginning of next year will have realized how critical our position is, and that it will be brought home to them that they must divert their expenditure on nonessential civil goods to war loan3. In order Jo overcome this difficulty the Fadden Government proposed -to inaugurate a compulsory loans scheme. Personally, I think that that is the only way in which we can obtain revenue from the excess amount of money that is now in circulation. We must realize that we are at war. 
In a time of peace industry could be speeded up for the production of additional commodities the purchase of which would absorb that excess spending power and restore general financial equilibrium in the community, but as we are now asking for a curtailment of civil expenditure that money cannot be expended on the purchase of commodities. For that reason I believe that the Government must eventually resort to compulsion by way of additional taxes or forced loans, in order to withdraw that excess amount of money from circulation. Party politics cannot justify a decision not to ask people earning less than £1,500 per year to give more in direct taxation. Portion of the £72,000,000 for which the budget does not provide should be spread in a sliding scale over all wage-earners, including the large group of workers earning under £400 per year, and who earn about 70 per cent, of the total private income of Australia, which amounts to £560,000,000. If the Government had decided to increase taxes on those incomes it would . not only have secured a considerable proportion of the amount it must still raise, but would also have found that the majority of the people concerned would very gladly make a contribution to the national revenue in that way, if only for the reason that all sections of the community were being asked to do likewise 
People with incomes below £1.500 will be given an opportunity to contribute to revenue by buying war savings certificates. 
But that would not have been the case under the Fadden Government's compulsory loans scheme because of the differentiation between State taxation rates. 
But the return to each State would not have been the same. 
I have listened with interest to speeches made in the course of this debate, and in connexion with other financial legislation, which has just been passed through this chamber. It seems to me that there is no real opposition to this budget.  Senator Cooper,  who has just spoken, might easily have been speaking from this side of the chamber. He made a thoughful speech, free from vindictiveness. It seems to me that the feeling underlying the speeches made by some other honorable senators opposite is that the only thing wrong with the budget is the fact that it has been introduced by a Labour Government rather than by a government formed by the parties of which they arc members. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber cannot be blamed entirely for the fact that a Labour Government; is now in occupation of the treasury bench. Since the beginning of the war - in fact since my entry into this chamber four years ago - constant quarrelling has been going on in the United Australia party and the United Country party. The culmination was the defeat of the Fadden Government. Honorable senators have themselves to blame for what has occurred. I arn sure that the people of Australia, will bc disgusted with the present attitude of the Opposition in view of recent happenings. Honorable senators opposite complain of disunity and lack of co-operation, yet in their own ranks Ave see outstanding men occupying back benches. The position is ridiculous. There is no doubt that the right honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Menzies)  is head and shoulders above those who were scheming constantly to undermine him, and eventually succeeded in .depriving him of the Prime Ministership of this country. Generally speaking, the people of Australia are pleased that there has been a change of government. There was considerable dissatisfaction throughout the length and breadth of this country with the previous government and the occupation of the treasury bench by the Labour party has been welcomed. Tb( criticism of the Labour Government's financial proposals offered by the exMinisters  was a little vindictive, and served only to strengthen the impression that these gentlemen are disappointed at the impositions which the Government proposes to place on high incomes. Safeguarding the rights of those in receipt of high incomes seems to be their only concern, and this criticism is hardly warranted at a time when this country is fighting for its freedom and, perhaps, for its very existence. When the people of Australia read the remarks of honorable senators opposite, particularly the three ex-Ministers, I am sure that it will be felt that the present Opposition is well qualified to hold that job permanently. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  complained that the Government was over-taxing, over-borrowing, and using the credit of the nation to too great an extent; but he cannot have it all ways. This budget provides for the raising of an additional £15.000,000 by way of direct taxation. The criticism voiced by the Opposition yesterday in this debate was that large incomes were being unjustly taxed, and to-day, in regard to other financial measures, the complaint was that the Government's taxation proposals would bear too hard upon the working people. Their attitude is obviously inconsistent. As a matter of fact, the people on low incomes pay a large amount in indirect taxes. For instance, customs and excise duties yield £50,000,000 annually, and the sales tax yields £26,000,000. " That is a total of £76,000,000, of which at least £50,000,000 is derived from the working people of this country. That is a substantial contribution. Although I am a great believer in direct taxation, the position to-day is such- that the Government has no alternative but to bring down a budget such as this. I am confident that it will appeal to the people of Australia. There has been no real opposition to it in this chamber or in the House of Representatives. I was astounded by the criticism offered by the Leader of the Opposition, and I am sure that it is not iu harmony with the thoughts which are uppermost in the minds of the people generally. This country is faced with great difficulties, and our first responsibility is to win the war. When I listened to the speeches made by honorable senators opposite, who appeared to be so concerned about individuals in receipt of high incomes, T wondered what our soldiers in Egypt or Tobruk would think if they heard them. They would have been disgusted to think that in times like these such concern could be felt for that small and privileged section of the community. 
This Government has not altered the Fadden Government's taxation proposals in respect of people receiving £1,500 a year or under. Surely that is a large enough income in these times. It is true that to some degree the increased taxation on high incomes will be reflected in industry; but the 
Government is faced with the task of improving our Avar effort by every possible means. Our sole aim must be to defeat Hitler and his hordes, which, are menacing the freedom of the people of democratic countries* When honorable senators opposite express so much concern for people on high incomes, they are out of tune with the people generally. Recently, I spent a few days in Sydney and Melbourne, admiring the beautiful homes in the suburbs. It is no exaggeration to say that many of the workers who are  doing  the real work of this country to-day would be quite happy to live in the garages of some of these palatial residences. Honorable senators opposite would do well to show a little more concern for the working people of this country, who are making the real sacrifices in this war. I should have appreciated also some reference by the former Ministers in this chamber to the effect that the war is having on industry. Many people will be placed in an extremely difficult position because of war repercussions. Obviously, when honorable senators opposite were in occupation of the treasury bench, they were not fully seised of the ramifications of this war and how it affects the people, particularly in Queensland and outback districts of other States. I am disappointed with the attitude of the previous Government in regard to this aspect of the war. I am disappointed at the failure of the previous Government to bring about a policy of decentralization in Queensland in regard to war expenditure. I believe that the present, Government will endeavour to spread that expenditure as much as possible so that the manpower in country centres will not be depleted. Despite  Senator Foil's  long parliamentary experience and his ministerial service, he had little to say regarding the new principles embodied in the budget. The only criticism he offered was that a certain person, who, on his recommendation, secured a position at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory, had not done any work there. The only inference to be drawn from the honorable senator's remark was that there were men in Australia who were willing to "sponge" on the country at a. time when we could ill-afford conduct of that kind. If people were loafing about in Lithgow, it is probably due to a state of affairs brought about to a large degree by the previous Administration. 
When Labour senators desired to assist a Minister in such a situation, they invariably got into touch with him personally, and in justice to  Senator Foll  I admit that he invariably dealt with such cases satisfactorily. The matter to which I have referred should not have been brought before the Senate in such a way as to imply that ministerial supervision had been lax. 
The budget has been so framed as to distribute the burden of the cost of the war among those members of the community who are best able to bear it, and I consider that the Government has succeeded to a large degree in achieving its objective. It has been blamed for not having ' adopted the proposals of the previous Administration regarding compulsory loans and post-war credits. Under the proposals of the previous Government many anomalies were noticed. It was intended to raise the revenue required for war purposes in such a way that while Queenslanders were paying high taxes, people in Victoria would-be receiving interest on war loans. The present Government could not approve of such an unjust, proposal. It has been stated that the Government, has gone too far in relieving the tax burdens on persons on the lower incomes. The Government has appealed to the people generally to spend their money wisely and realize fully that every penny that can be saved is required for war expenditure. I have no doubt that the workers will respond well to the appeal of the present Government to refrain from wasteful expenditure. Most workers place their savings in the savings banks, and thus it, becomes available to the Government through the medium of the war loans. The Government would be well advised to make a special effort to produce a complete understanding on the part of the people of what the Empire is fighting for and what it is fighting against. The previous Government failed in this respect and I hope that the  present Administration will use whatever facilities it has at its disposal to create a psychology among the people that will lead to a maximum war effort. I was somewhat concerned when I noticed that the vote for the Department of Information was to be considerably reduced. We might take a leaf out of the book of the enemy and realize the value of propaganda for war purposes. 
I urge the Government to take into serious consideration the effect of petrol rationing in Australia. Much more than has been done could be accomplished to assist various industries in this country. The previous Government appointed a committee which made certain recommendations relating to the production of power alcohol, and I hope that the present. Government will pay heed to them. There are no technical difficulties in the way of manufacturing a satisfactory motor spirit from sugar cane, and other primary products. In Brazil the production of sugar is very little greater than that of Australia, yet that country now produces about 70,000,000 gallons of power alcohol annually. The Government of Brazil encourages the development of producer-gas units. Wood or coal is used in these units, eucalyptus trees having been found to provide the best wood for this purpose. On the 16th July last, according to the United States of America journal  Business Week,  a law was passed in Brazil compelling all owners of ten or more trucks or buses to operate one in every ten vehicles with this fuel, the Government providing the equipment necessary for hundreds of trucks operating in outlying districts where petrol is always scarce. 
The Opposition has not advanced any sound reasons why objection should be taken to the increase of the invalid and old-age pensions. There is an abundance of foodstuffs in Australia, and the Government will be called upon to expend thousands of pounds shortly in providing storage accommodation for commodities for which we cannot find a market overseas.  Senator James  McLachlan was surprised recently when I stated that pensions had been increased only to the extent of half a loaf of bread a day. Therefore I do not anticipate that the honorable senator will offer any serious opposition to the increase. As soon as possible the Government should give favorable consideration to the introduction of a pension for widows, butI realize that all available revenue is now needed in financing the war effort. I feel sure that the budget will receive the endorsement of the people generally, and I urge the Opposition to give to the Government every opportunity to put its policy into effect. I have no doubt that the people of Australia will be quite satisfied with the work of the Labour Administration in bringing about a maximum war effort, I ask leave to continue my remarks at a. later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 by leave -  When changes of the sales tax were announced in the budget the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner made an announcement as to the prices adjustments that would be permitted on account of increased sales tax. The terms of that announcement were as follows: - 
On sales tax up to and including 10 per cent. retailers would be permitted to add the gross profit margin operating prior to the budget. For goods on which the sales tax is higher than 10 per cent. retailers would be permitted their normal gross profit margin on the first 10 per cent. of the sales tax and thereafter only the actualamount of sales tax. All goods in stock on which sales tax had been paid at the old rates must be sold at current prices. In accordance with the prices regulations retailers are required to keep accurate records showingthe date on which any increases resulting from increased sales tax are brought into operation and the stock position atthat date. These records should be available for inspection by officers of the Prices Branch at any time. 
In thecase of proprietary lines affected by the sales tax, it would be necessary for the owners to make application to the Prices Commissioneror to the Deputy Prices Commissioners inthe States before raising their prices on account of increases in the sales tax. 
I am further advised by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner that the methods of checking increases of prices made by retailers on account of increased sales tax are as follows :  - In the first place, many individual complaints are investigated by officers of the Prices Branch, and this serves to act as a sample inspection of what retailers are doing. In the second place, the Prices Commissioner makes a periodical check of the total gross profit margin being earned by retailers in order to ascertain whether the prices regulations are being observed. Some retailers have already been prosecuted on account of increases of gross profit margins, and there isno large emporium in Australia whose accounts andgross profit margins have not been subject to careful check by officers of the Prices Branch. In the third place, the retail prices of proprietary lines and the margins available to retailers are under strict control. 
I remind honorable senators that the sales tax does not apply to the basic foodstuffs entering into the cost of living regimen of the basic wage-earner. 
There being present an absolute majority of the whole number of members of the Senate, and no dissentient voice, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Collings)  put - 
That the Orders of the. Senate made this day fixing the resumption of the debate on the following Bills as Orders of the Day for the next day of sitting, be rescinded: - 
Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1941 ; 
Customs Tariff (Exchange Adjustment) Validation Bill (No. 2) 1941; 
Customs Tariff (Special War Duty) Validation Bill (No. 2)1941 ; 
Customs Tariff (Canadian Preference) Validation Bill (No. 2) 1941 ; 
Customs Tariff (New Zealand Preference) Validation Bill (No. 2)1941; and 
Excise Tariff Validation Bill 1941. 
There being at least one-half of the whole number of members of the Senate voting in favour of the motion, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
I regret that the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  is not present, because I take this opportunity to refer to a report published in the  Courier-Mail  last Wednesday in which he dealt with the censorship of speeches in this Parliament. He referred to the arrangements which I made when I was Minister for Information whereby the Chief Publicity Censor was brought to Canberra for the purpose, not so much of censoring members' speeches, but of obviating unnecessary "delay in the final release of reports of speeches for publication, in the newspapers.The present Minister has altered that arrangement. He proposes, in conjunction with  Mr. President,  and  Mr. Speaker,  to act as censor of speeches delivered in this Parliament. That arrangement may be entirely harmless, but I suggest that it is far better to have a censorship authority divorced altogether from a political atmosphere particularly when speeches delivered in this Parliament are under consideration. I think that deletions from speeches made in this Parliament were made on only two occasions during my term as Minister for Information. Consequently, the chances are that the new machinery set up by the Minister will not be called into operation at all. I am hopeful that that will be the case.. However, it is advisable that the censorship should be entirely dissociated from any form of political influence. Honorable senators are aware that  Mr. Bonney,  who was previously editor of the Melbourne  Argus,  has been appointed Chief Publicity Censor. 
I think that the Minister in the report to which I have referred did an injustice to  Mr. J.  Williams, the former Acting Director of the Department of Information, in referring to that gentleman's association with the department. The Minister said - 
I also appreciate that I may have had the benefit of this gentleman's advice officially if he had not decided to resign the position of Acting-Director immediately after touring the Netherlands East Indies with the former Minister fur Information (SenatorFoll). 
The inference to be drawn from that statement is that  Mr. Williams  merely remained inthe department until such time as he had an opportunity to visit Malaya and the Netherlands East Indies, and on returning from that trip, immediately relinquished his position as Acting Director of Information. That is not the case. The facts arc that as Minister, I was faced with a very serious position in the department by the reason of the fact that the late  Mr. Jenkins,  whom I appointed with the approval of the Government, as Director of Information, suddenly became seriously ill. He had been Chief Publicity Censor, and in that capacity, over a period of fourteen months, he carried out most difficult work in building up the department. As the result of those labours his health was impaired. Consequently, he took a holiday. Later, he received a medical certificate to the effect that he could resume his duties. He came to Sydney, but I had no opportunity to see him because he was taken ill and entered hospital, where he lay at death's door for some weeks. Afterwards I was able to get him back to Melbourne, but he failed to make a recovery and died.  Mr. Jenkins'  association with the department wasvery sad. Upon his death, I was faced with the difficult position that I had no Chief Publicity Censor, and no Director of Information. Consequently, I requested the board of directors of the  Courier-Mail  to make  Mr. Williams's  services available to the department for a period of three months, in which period I hoped to be able to sort things out and decide upon the form which the administrative side of the department should take. The board of directors of the  CourierMail  replied that it could not release  Mr. Williams  to take the job permanently, but would make his services available as Acting Director of Information for a period of three months without cost to  the Government. He took up that position in an honorary capacity. At the end of the period of three months,  Mr. Jenkins  was still alive, but it was not known whether he would recover. Although I was anxious to appoint a permanent director, I decided to refrain from doing so until I knew definitely whether  Mr. Jenkins  would be able to return to work. Consequently, at my special request,  Mr. Williams  stayed on with the department for a total period of seven months in a purely honorary capacity. I make itclear that it was at my request, and my request only, that  Mr. Williams  stayed on. He did not hang on to the job, as might be inferred from the Minister's statement, inorder to get a trip to the Netherlands East Indies and Malaya.  Mr. Williams  received an individual invitation to make that trip from the Governments of the Netherlands East Indies and the Straits Settlements, just as I, myself, and individual newspaper editors did. In addition,  Mr. Williams  was invited in his dual capacity as managing director of the  Courier-Mail  and as acting head of the Department of Information. It was known at the time that he was unable toremain permanently with the department. On his return from his visit to the Netherlands East Indies and Malaya, he remained with the department for a few weeks, although during that period his executive was getting into difficulty owing to his absence. Subsequently, I was able to secure the services of  Mr. Holmes,  who, at that time, was head of the National Travel Association, and whom I regarded as possessing excellent qualifications for appointment as head of the Department of Information. With the approval of Cabinet, I appointed him head of the department for the duration of the war, or until the department ceased to exist.  Mr. Williams  then returned to the  CourierMail.  Throughout his seven months' association with the department, he did excellent work, in respect of which he placed not only the Government, but also the nation, in his debt. We are also indebted to his executive for having made his services available. I make these facts clear in case any misunderstanding should arise as theresult of the Minister's suggestion that  Mr. Williams  merely stayed with the department in order to avail himself of the opportunity to make a trip to the Netherlands East Indies and Malaya and then immediately left it. 
 in reply  - I shall see that the honorable senator's remarks are brought to the notice of the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Can the Minister for the Interior give to the Senate any information regarding the cause of the delay in the work of erecting the Villawood explosives factory? Is the delay due to faulty layout of the building, or to the sub-contractors not being able to carry on with the work? 
I shall have the matter investigated, and supply the honorable senator with an answer to his questions as soon as possible. 
Can the Leader of the Senate state the reasons for the delay m choosing sites in the various States for distilleries for the manufacture  of power alcohol? According to a statement in the press to-day, no siteshave yet been chosen. Why cannot somebody be furnished with the necessary authority to choose the sites immediately? 
I shall obtain a full report on the matter. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Customs yet had time to consider the statement made by the Minister for the Army, in the House of Representatives yesterday, in connexion with the censorship of books by his department? In view of the direct contradiction between the statement attributed in the press last Friday to the Minister for Trade and Customs, and that made by the Minister for the Army, will the honorable gentleman inform the Senate as to which statement is in accordance with the facts? 
I regard the matter as serious, inasmuch as the power of censorship resides in both the Minister for the Army and myself. Recently I had occasion to intervene with regard to a large consignment of books from overseas that had been delivered in Melbourne and had been held up since March last. Although the books number about 600, only one of them was open to challenge. Despite that fact, all of the books had been held under the direction of some Army authority, but, on the position being explained, the books were released. The main point is that there is dual control. I have asked the Army authorities to communicate to me their views as to whether the power of censorship, from the point of view of subversive activities, should not reside in one authority. 
When I receive from the Minister for the Army a reply to my recent request for a full statement on the matter, I shall answer the honorable senator in greater detail. 
Can the Minister for the Interior inform the Senate whether the industrial trouble experienced in the construction of the Greenslopes Military Hospital, near Brisbane, has been overcome, whether the Work  is  now proceeding at full speed, and when the hospital is likely to be available for use by the military authorities? 
The industrial trouble has terminated, but I cannot say when the hospital is likely to be completed. I shall get that information and supply it to the honorable senator. 
Will the Leader of the Senate give to the Opposition an assurance that the important regulations dealing with the control of private banks will be laid on the table of the Senate before the parliamentary recess? Can the Minister also assure the Senate that the power to control the banks will be vested in the Commonwealth Bank Board, and not in the Labour caucus? 
Both these questions appearto me to relate to matters of government policy, and the decisions reached regarding them will be disclosed to the Senate at the proper time. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Army seen the report in the press that the Minister for the Army had stated that a raw recruit couldbe made into a soldier in a week ? If his colleague was correctly reported, will the honorable gentleman suggest to him that he should contradict or qualify that statement, otherwise he will lose the confidence of the nation in him as a war Minister ? 
I shall undertake to discuss that matter with my colleague, and furnish the honorable senator with a reply. 

 Later: 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Did General  Sir Thomas  Blamey state publicly in Canberra that the rifle and bayonet are still the deciding factor in battle, other weapons being complementary ? 
If so, will the Minister direct that militia battalion commanders be authorized to draw from reserve stocks sufficient small arms ammunition to train their men instead of a quantity which is totally inadequate to ensure an infantry soldier having confidence in himself in action. 
The Minister for the Armyhas supplied the following answers: - 
General  Sir Thomas  Blarney stated, "The object in battle is to develop the maximum of fire power in order to permit the infantry to close with the enemy. The bayonet then becomes the decisi veweapon ". 
The ammunition allotted for the training year 1941-42 represents an increase of approximately 25 per cent. for all riflemen, or an increase of 3,000,000 rounds, as compared with the last training year, and is in allcases more than that allotted for training in the United Kingdom. 
Will the Leader of the Senate make a statement, on the motion . for the adjournment to-day, giving to honorable senators an indication as to when the present sittings will be concluded, and will be consider the convenience of honorable senators generally in that matter ? In view of the important bills coming forward, will he see that arrangements to conclude the parliamentary sittings are not made until he has been consulted, so that the Senate may have reasonable time in which to consider the measures to be dealt with? 
I am not in a position at the moment to make a statement as to the probable date of the termination of the present sittings, but I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that I shall consult the convenience of honorable senators opposite with regard to that matter. As to the second portion of the honorable senator's question, as far as it is humanly possible, I shall endeavour to avoid the unseemly rush in the concluding days of the period of a session which was characteristic of the proceedings in this chamber during the regime of the previous Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that confusion has occurred in connexion with the wheat stabilization scheme, resulting from delayed allocations of permissible cropping acreages andother causes inherent in the present scheme? 
If so, will the Minister undertake to have an announcement of (policy made on wheat matters early in the new year, so that wheat-growers may know what they are expected to do, and may make their plans accordingly ? 
The Minister for 
Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. All wheat-growers have been  afforded fullest facilities for ascertaining their responsibilities. Very few growers are deliberately evading their duty. 
The Government's policy for 1942 will be announced as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Has the Government under consideration an increase of wool prices, or are negotiations in progress with the Government of Great Britain regarding such an increase? 
If a rise of price is agreed to, will the Government see that it applies to the whole season's clip? 
Will the Government also consider the advisability of recouping those graziers who sold their lambs prior to the unexpected rise of the fixed price during the selling period this season? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 1 and 2. The Government finds that the understanding between the United Kingdom and Australian Governments is that the price may be reviewed in May of each year. The Government has also ascertained that the previous Government failed to initiate any such review. On. account of this failure it mar not be possible to arrange any change in "the price until the 1942-43 clip. The Government at present has this matter under consideration. 
The previous Government seems to have regarded it as impracticable to recoup producers who sold stock in the period just prior to an improvement in the export position. So far, the present Government has not seen apracticable means of doing so, but is taking steps to place in the special mutton and lamb fund the sum representing the retrospective benefit of the recent increase in prices. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
In. view of pending major operations in the Middle East in which the Australian Imperial Force Divisions are certain to be engaged, will the Minister consider transferring to the army as Australian Imperial Force reinforcements, a percentage of the thousands of young men who have been waiting forover twelve months for a call to the Royal Australian Air Force? 
Is it a fact that at Point Cook and Laverton therearemany skilled andsemiski lled tradesmen who could beemployed to better advantage in a government munitions factory ? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied the following answers:- 
It is not legally possible to effect a transfer of men from the Royal Australian Air Force reserve to the Australian Imperial Force. Inorder to effect such a transfer each man would have to be discharged from the reserve and to volunteer again for service with the Australian Imperial Force. Furthermore, thenumber of men now on the reserve is such that the average waiting period is approximately four months only, and it would be impossible, even if it were legally permissible, to release these reservists without serious consequence to the carrying out of the Empire Air Training Scheme in Australia. 
It is contrary to fact to say that there are many skilled or semi-skilled tradesmen at Point Cook and Laverton who could be employed to better advantage in a government munitions factory. For some considerable time past facilities have existed under which skilled tradesmen maybe transferred to the Royal Australian Air Force reserve in order to enable them to take up civil employment of national importance and, up to the present time, some hundreds have already been released under this scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Does the Government intend to take any steps to release from government departments any employee desirous of enlisting in the Australian Imperial Force? 
Is it a fact that the Australian reserved occupations list was created on the lines of the British list, where conscription of manpower exists; if so. will the Government consider the abolition of that list until such time as conscription of man-power, materials and wealth,for all phases of our war effort, is brought into operation ? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Permanent heads of departments have already been instructed that members of the staffs of Commonwealth departments who wish to enlist for -service in the, lighting forces shall bepermitted to do so unless it is necessary to retain their services as members of reserved occupations. 
The. Australian list of reserved occupations was originally based on theBritish list, with alterations to suit Australian requirements. The Government is not preparedto abolish the list of reserved occupations.In this connexion I point out that, irrespective ofwhether the fighting forces are maintained by voluntary or by compulsory service, the requisite number of trained men for war production and maintenance canbe ensured only  by a system of reserved occupations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
In view of the serious danger of fires from gas-producers', will the Government bring forward legislation to ensure - 
that gas-producers be kept in good repair; 
that places be provided and set apart on roads for refuelling and cleaning; 
that users of gasproducers be permitted to empty containers only at specified places during summer months : 
that units be examined by competent inspectors with a view to safety from fire? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the followinganswer :  - 
The Commonwealth has made itself responsible for ensuring, as far as possible, that all gas-producer units manufactured for sale are soundly constructed, efficient and safe. ' This is in the interests of manufacturers and users alike. The Commonwealth cannot control the manufacture of units for use by the manufacturer himself, and it is from these " homemade " units that most dangers might arise. 
All motor vehicles arc subject to State registration, and the prevention of the fitting' and use of ill-constructed and dangerous or outofrepair units is thus a matter which can he handled most effectively by State authorities. The Commonwealth has no machinery for undertaking a duty of that kind. The provision of special places on roads for refuelling and' cleaning producers and for emptying charcoal hoppers is also a matter for State road and forests authorities. The State of Victoria has already issued regulations under the Police Offences Act and the Motor Car Regulations designed to avoid the fire danger referred to by the honorable senator, and it is understood that similar legislation has been passed by other States also. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that an order has been given for the manufacture of the Owen sub-machine gun? 
Is it a fact that there has been a hold-up in the manufacture of this gun? 
Will the Minister sec that any obstruction to the manufacture of this gun is overcome as speedily as possible? 
The Minister for the Armyhas supplied the following answers :  -  1 and 2. A production order for 2,000 of these guns has been authorized, and the preparation of drawings and specifications is proceeding to enable manufacture to commence. 
Yes. A conference has been convened to discuss certain points affecting design. All action is being taken to ensure that production of the gun is proceeded with as early as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
When is it expected the Rocklea Munition Works, Brisbane, will be in full production? 
What is the estimated employment (male and female) when the works are in full production? 
What is the estimated cost of the works - (a) buildings; and (b) machinery and equipment? 
What has been spent to date on (a) buildings; and (b) machinery and equipment? 
The Minister for Munitions has supplied the following answers: - 
The first unit will commence operations at the end of December, and should be in full production four months later. Second and third units will follow as fast as prac ticable, but full production will depend upon the orders received at the time. The three units should be available for full production in July-August, 1942. 
Estimated employment on full production - (a) Male, 1,800; and (b) female, 2,700 -total, 4,500. 
Estimated cost of works - (a) Buildings, £850,000; (6) machinery and equipment, £1, 150,000; and (c) toolroom annexe, £80,000 -total£2,080,000. 
The authorized expenditure to date is - (a) Buildings, £631,730; (6) machinery and equipment,£ 1,118,370; and (c) toolroom annexe, £80,000 - total, £1,830,100. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service,  upon notice - 
Can the Minister give any information at this stage, as to how many men employed in producing non-essential commodities have been transferred, or are likely to be transferred, to establishments engaged in producing war material ? 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer :  - 
No statistics are available. The matter is receiving the attention of the Minister for War Organization of Industry. 
asked the Leader of the Senate the following questions,  upon notice: - 
Concerning the report dated the6th June, last, submitted to the Menzies Government by the Western Australian War Industries Committee - 
Has the present Government accepted, in principle, the recommendations of that committee? 
If so, will the Government make known the terms of reference issued, or to be issued, to the Western Australian Industry Expansion Commission? 
Will the Government indicate the amount of money it is prepared to make immediately available in order to implement the recommendations of the committee and for the purposes of the Western Australian Industry Expansion Commission ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follows :  - 
The Commonwealth Government has accepted, in principle, and has acted upon, the recommendation of the Western Australian War Industries Committee that a Western Australian Industry Expansion Commissionbe appointed. The following have been appointed  as members of the commission :  - Commonwealth representatives. - Professor F. R. E. Mauldon, of the Western Australian University, chairman: H. B. Sturtevant. Esq., Commonwealth Deputy Director of Works, Perth; and J. W. Hallam, Esq., Area Officer. Board of Area Management, Department of Munitions, Perth. State representatives. - R. J. Dumas. Esq., Director of Works; and J. A. Ellis, Esq.. Commissioner of Railways. 
The terms of reference decided  upon  arc as follows: - 
To advise the Commonwealth Government on measures necessary to ensure the fullest use of Western Australian industrial resources for war and other national purposes; and 
To submit to the Commonwealth Government specific proposals for such industrial development as is necessary for this purpose. 
As the commission referred to in the answers to 1 and 2 has only recently been appointed, it is not possible, at this juncture, to furnish a definite reply to the question of the honorable senator. The commission will, in accordance with its terms of reference, take an active part in promoting the maximum use of the capacity of Western Australia in meeting war requirements. On proposals not directly associated with the war effort it will conduct full investigation and formulate propositions for submission to the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth will then, if necessary, confer with the State Government to determine at what stage each proposal may be undertaken and in what manner financial responsibility is to be divided. The plans associated with the work of the commission would have been much further advanced but for the delay of the previous Government in dealing with the recommendations of the Western Australian War Industries Committee, the report of which was made available to the then government in June last. 
.- I move - 
That thebillbe now read a second time. 
It is my pleasant duty to submit to this chamber abill which I consider is a worthy additionto the Labour party's great record of advanced social legisla tion. Before applying myself to the technicalities of the measure, I am impelled to make a plea to all Australians to revise that popular,but fallacious, attitude towards pensions which places some mysterious stigma on therecipients. Far from being a mere hand-out to our less fortunate citizens, a pension is more often this nation's somewhat inadequate recognition of an individual's long record of sturdy and useful citizenship. 
In the midst of the present world upheaval, there is much airy talk of a " new order " when the war is over. There is no reason why this great Commonwealth, with its outstanding record of social advancement should await the termination of the war before improving the conditions of the people. Thisbill will give to all those staunch Australians, who have fought a great fight for the maintenance of that basic principle of freedom upon which our democracy is based, some necessary additional comfort in the evening of their days. For these reasons, I commend it to honorable senators, in the belief that it will receive their endorsement. 
The principal object of the bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, as announcedby my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  in the budget, to increase as from the 11th December next, the maximum rate of invalid and old-age pensions from the present rate of 21s. 6d. a week to 23s. 6d. a week - the highest amount ever paid since the inception of invalid and old-age pensions. 
The Government is re-examining  the  resources at its disposal and, as has been foreshadowed by the Treasurer's intimation regarding the presentation of a supplementary budget early in the new year, it then intends to introduce a bill to honour its election pledge to raise  the  pension level to 25s. a week. The new maximum includes a cost of living adjustment of1s. a week, 6d. of which is to  be  made available by the Government one month earlier than would normally be the case. 
Whilst retaining the principle of associating the rate of pension with the cost of living index, the Government proposes an important amendment in order to ensure that, in the eventof a  fall of the cost of living, the maximum rate of pension will not be reduced below 22s. 6d. a week without parliamentary approval At present, it is possible to reduce the rate to 21s. a week. The price index number for September, 1941, was 1009. Should it reach 102S, a further 6cl. a week will be payable. 
The bill preserves the existing margins of permissible income, namely 12s. 6d. a week in respect of pensioners other than (permanently blind persons, and £3 7s. Gd. a week in respect of blind pensioners. In order, however, to clarify the position regarding permissible income, it is proposed to make certain amendments which will indicate clearly that a pensioner may possess income up to these amounts without his pension being affected. The present provision in the act relating to this matter does not indicate the permissible income as such, but merely states the limit of income, together with the pension. Consequently, it is necessary to vary this limit with every variation of the pension rate. The new provision will  avoid the necessity for these variations, without in any way affecting the present permissible income. 
The bill also makes provision for pensioner-inmates of benevolent asylums and hospitals to .benefit from the general increase of the pension rate. Following the practice adopted on previous occasions, the increase of '2s. will be divided equally between the pensioner and the institution. The new institutional rate of 7s. 9d. a week will include a cost of living adjustment of 6d., and will be the highest amount which has ever been. paid, to pensioners in institutions. Some honorable members may consider that pensionerinmates of institutions should receive the full increase of 2s. a week. I think, however, that it will be admitted that the payments made to pensioners in institutions are in a somewhat different category from those made to other pensioners who have to meet the full cost of their maintenance out of the pension money. The cost of the maintenance of au inmate of an institution is borne almost entirely by the institution, and the pension payment made to the inmate is more in the nature of pocket-money which enables him to purchase tobacco and other commodities not always pro-  vided  by the institution. The present cost of maintaining inmates of hospitals and some country institutions averages about 22s. 6d. a. week. It is of interest to mention that in 1920 the institutional pension of 2s. a week represented only 13 per cent, of the full pension; in 1.925 the institutional rate of 4s. a week was 20 per cent, of the pension of 20s.; in 1937, when the full pension was 20s. a week, the institutional rate was 30 per cent, of the pension; the amount of 6s. 9d. a week at present being paid, is 31 per cent, of the full pension; whilst the new institutional rate of 7s. 9d. a week will represent about one-third of the pension of 23s. 6d. a week. The act at present provides for pensioner-inmates to receive, at the discretion of the Minister, up to half of the amount of any cost of living increase granted to pensioners outside. This provision, together with cost of living variations, is being retained. 
The bill also rnakes provision for other concessions indicated by the Treasurer in the budget speech. One of the most important of these is a liberalization of the conditions under which invalid pensions are granted. The act at present provides that an invalid pension shall be granted only to a person who is permanently incapacitated for work. This requirement has usually been interpreted as meaning total and permanent incapacity. There have  been  many instances in which this has involved hardship! All honorable Senators have seen 'borderline cases which make an almost irresistible appeal to our sympathies. There are those doubtful cases to which the administration would wish to extend benefits, but which are now beyond the  limits of the act. A great many of these claimants will now participate because provision lias been made in the bill to enable an invalid pension to be granted to a claimant' if the degree of his capacity for work does not exceed 15 per cent. 
The act as it stands at present debars from benefit Asiatics except those born in Australia and Indians in British  India. The bill removes the  disqualifica-'  tion of Asiatics who are British subjects, including Asiatics who are British subjects cither by birth or  by  naturalization. The Asiatics who will chiefly benefit from this concession are Syrians and Lebanese. Many members of the Asiatic community or their sons served with the Australian forces in the last war, and 45 are at present members of the Commonwealth forces overseas. 
Under the present act the property exemption of £50 for each pensioner is reduced to £25 each in cases where both husband and wife are. pensioners. The Government considers that there is not sufficient justification for this reduction and the provision under which it is made is to be removed from the act. The result will be that where both husband and wife are pensioners each will receive the benefit of the property exemption of £50. There are quite a number of instances where pensioners own encumbered property which they cannot sell except at a considerable sacrifice, but the value of the equity in the property may cause a reduction of the rate of pension. The bill will remove this cause of hardship by giving the Commissioner discretionary power to disregard the value of the equity possessed by the claimant or pensioner when assessing the net capital value of accumulated property in such cases. 
  A new provision is to be embodied in the invalid and old-age pensions legislalation with the object of encouraging invalid claimants or pensioners who are capable of undergoing suitable vocational training to do so in order that they may become self-supporting. After considering the age and mental and physical capacity of any invalid claimant or pensioner, and the facilities available for suitable vocational training or physical rehabilitation, the Commissioner may take appropriate steps either to grant or continue a pension in any individual case. 
 Because it is unnecessary to amend the act to give effect to the Government's decision regarding adequate maintenance, no mention of this important and farreaching determination is made in the bill. In the future, it is intended to regard " adequate maintenance " as a family income sufficient to provide £2 10s. a week for each adult dependent member of the family and one-half that amount for each child under sixteen years of age. Adequate maintenance is not defined in the act, but the standard to he followed has been laid down by successive Governments, and upon the adoption of the budget the Government will authorize the administration to put the new standard into operation as from the 11th December, 1941. It is expected that this generous action will result in the admission of many claims which would have been disallowed under the present standard. 
The present number of invalid and old-age pensions is a little over 335.000. They will all receive the full increase of 2s. a week at a cost of £1,743,000 per annum. The cost of the increase it. respect of. 5,450 institutional pensioners will be £28,000 per annum. The total addition to the annual liability as a result of the increases provided for in the bill will thus be £1,771,000. The cost of the increases for the present financial year will be £1,022,000, but this includes an amount of £225,000 which would have been the cost for 1941-42 of the increase of 6d. a. week on the cost of living index from January, 1942. The cost of the other concessions which I have indicated is estimated at £245,500 for a full year. The cost for the remainder of the present financial year will be approximately £143,000. The total additional expenditure as the result of the increases and concessions proposed in this bill is thus £2,016,500 per annum, the total cost for 1941-42 being £1,165,000. Taking into account the estimated increase of the number of pensioners, the total estimated expenditure on invalid and old-age pensions during the current financialyear is £19,865,000, an increase of £2,499,000 as compared with the actual expenditure last year. 
Two other important phases of invalid and old-age pensions administration are at present receiving the serious attention of the Government. One of these is the extension of pension benefits to Australian aboriginals who are living under civilised conditions, or who are at least making a genuine endeavour to conform to what one might call the normal Australian standards. The second relates to the exemption from income of war pensions payable to dependants of soldiers when an assessment of invalid or old-age pensions is made. It is sincerely hoped that eventually further concessions will he embodied in the act. I commend the bill to the Senate as a worthy addition to our social legislation. 
I do not propose to make a long secondreading speech on this bill because I have had something to say in regard to the proposals' contained in it during my speech on the motion for the printing of the revised estimates and. budget papers. In this time of war it is deplorable that the subject of invalid and old-age pensions should become the plaything of party politics. Prior to the last federal elections, the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  in a policy speech delivered in August, 1940, promised that if his party were returned to office he would increase the rate of invalid and old-age pensions to 25s. a week. On that occasion,  Senator Amour,  then leader of the famous Australian Labour party (non-Communist) in this chamber, realizing the number of votes that could bo won by airy promises to the pensioners in New South Wales, outbid  Mr. Curtin  and promised the invalid and old-age pensioners that if the party which he represented were returned to office, the pension rate wouldbe increased to 30s. a week. History relates what has happened since. When the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  was considering his record budget, providing for no less than £325,000,000, if press reports are correct - and my friends opposite may deny them if they are not - he decided that, in spite of the airy promises made by  Mr. Curtin,  and in view of the heavy commitments which the Government had to meet, the pension rate should be increased to 23s. 6d. a week and remain subject to adjustment according to the variations of the cost of living. He regarded that as a reasonable rate. The caucus met on the following Tuesday and I can well imagine my friend,  Senator Amour,  and the other "A" men in the Senate reminding the Prime Minister of the airy promises which he made in 1940. In spite of the fact that the former members of the Australian Labour party (non-Communist) are not over-represented in the Cabinet, they apparently wield sufficient power in the caucus to demonstrate to the people of Australia that the caucus tail still wags the cabinet dog. When the supplementary budget is brought down early in the new year they expect the pension rate to be increased to 25s. a week, subject to cost of living adjustments. At present, proposals such as that now beforeus which make such a heavy demand on the finances of the Commonwealth, and which are of such far-reaching importance, should be debated on their merits on. non-party lines. The. figures relating to the increased cost of the invalid and old-age pensions scheme since its inception are alarming. The increase of the rate of pension and the further concessions proposed in this bill will involve an extra charge on the budget amounting to £2,499,000 for this financial year. We know that the additional cost will increase in the years to come as the result of the normal increase of the number of pensioners and because of the increased cost of living which must be anticipated during the continuance of the war. It is interesting to find that, in 1917, only 25 years ago, the number  of  invalid and. old-age pensioners was 120,453. During this financial year it is anticipated that the number of pensioners will be 340,000, an increase of almost 300 percent. over the 1917 figures. In 1917 the rate of pension was 12s.6d. a week; the rate this year is 23s. 6d. a week.  The  charge on the budget in 1917 was £3,500,000; this year it will be  no  less than £20,000,000. Some people seem to have no conception of the ability  of  the Australian community to withstand these ever-increasing annual charges without excessive borrowing, without relying on that mythical bank credit about which we have heard so much and which may lead to inflation and disaster. Notwithstanding the fact that the recent loan was successful, the Government still has to raise before the  end  of June, 1942. no less than £137,000,000. It is suggested in the budget that portion of that amount, will be raised by loan. We know what the Government's taxation proposals will mean to people in receipt of incomes in excess of £2,000 a year. The financial policy of the Government will cause worry and confusion to future Treasurers.  I  repeat that pensions should notbe made the plaything of party politics. 
Sena tor McLEAY. - I gave my entire support to the national insurance legislation introduced into this Parliament by the  Lyons  Government, the object of which was fo place pensions on a contributory basis. We shall render the greatest service to our people by divorcing this matter entirely from party politics and by taking the first opportunity to place pensions on a contributory basis. Our old people could then claim their pension;- not as a dole 'but as a right. In 'season and out of season, honorable senators on this side of the chamber have always supported the principle of old-age pensions. Our predecessors originated this legislation. Today, however, the annual cost of pensions has reached a figure out of all proportion to the Government's other commitments. The fir.-t £100,000,000 of the budget is for  civil  requirements. Out of that amount a sum of £20,000,000 is provided for invalid and old-age pensions, £20,000,000 for repatriation, and £13,000,000 to meet the cost of child endowment. These three social service.* now absorb over £50,000,000 annually. That contribution is disproportionately high. It is out of all proportion to the provision which the present Government proposes to make in the interests of other sections of the community which are suffering great hardships. I refer particularly to the primary producers. A comparison on these lines should make us ask ourselves calmly whether we are handling the problem of pensions and social services generally on a fair basis. An annual payment of £20,000,000 in respect of invalid and oldage pensions is economically unsound, having regard to our other. disbursements. Recently my colleague,  Senator James  McLachlan,  referred to the plight of the wheat- farmers. Let us examine the treatment they are to receive at the hands of the Government. The number of registered wheat-farmers based on applications for licences to grow wheat this year is 68,000. The Government proposes to guarantee a price for wheat of 3s. lOd. a bushel f.o.b., on an estimated crop of 140,000,000 bushels. Out of that figure, the farmer will be obliged to meet charges amounting to ls. Id. a bushel as follows: - Freight, 4-kl., storage, Id., handling charges 3£d., and cornsacks 4d. Thus the farmer, on the basis of' a guaranteed price of 3s. lOd. a bushel f.o.b., will receive a net amount of only 2s. 9d. a bushel at country sidings. The total cheque which will be paid on this basis for an estimated crop of 140,000,000 bushels will be £750,000 less than the sum of £20,000,000 to be provided for invalid and old-age pensions. We must also remember that in these difficult days the wheat-farmers are unable to ship the bulk of their wheat. Consequently, they must face considerable losses owing to deterioration as well as increased storage charges. At the same time, the Government states airily that farmers on marginal areas will be transferred to land suitable for wheat-growing, and those in financial difficulty will be . assisted under the rural debt adjustment scheme. But so far it has made no provision to do any more for these people than was done by the Menzies Government. The Government should weigh carefully the serious problem that will confront our rural industries in the next few years. We shall be unable to ship the. bulk of our primary produce; and when the war is over, owing to increased costs of production, we shall not be able to compete on the world's markets. We must cut our suit according to our cloth. The bulk of the increases of indirect taxes imposed by the present Government amounting to £9,000,000 will be borne by the primary producers. At the same time, the rate of invalid and old-age pensions is to be increased next year to £1 5s. a week. Having regard to probable further increases of the cost of living during the war, the rate may reach as much as £1 1.0s. a week. 
If this Government were prepared to follow New Zealand's example, and place a direct tax of 10 per cent, on incomes as low as £100, we too might be able to be so generous to our pensioners. However, honorable senators opposite are prepared to-day to eat the words they uttered in criticizing the principle of indirect taxation eleven months ago. They now intend to rely on indirect  taxes.  The rate of sales tax will be increased generally by 100 per cent., bringing the rate to the  exorbitant figure of 20 per cent. Increases of indirect taxes to be imposed by this Government during the next, year amount to £9,000,000, made up as -follows:  Sale3  tax £3,500,000, postal charges £2,000,000, customs and excise duties £3,500,000. At the same time the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  talks about the old-age pensioner enjoying his smoke, and, I presume, also his beer. Does he not realize that the pensioners must also purchase soap, toothpaste and other articles on. which the rate of sales tax is to be increased by over 300 per cent.? I can imagine "Eather Christinas ", during the coming vacation, attending a meeting of old-age pensioners and explaining to them what this Government has done for them. But, is he prepared to tell the truth to the pensioners and the housewives? Is he prepared to say to them, " Yes we have increased the rate of pension. You can put, the increase in one pocket, but by indirect taxes, we shall take it out of another pocket? " 
Yes. I have already criticized, the Government's proposal to increase the sales tax on building materials by 100 per cent. I again remind honorable senators opposite that the only houses which will be constructed during the war will be those required by people on the lower levels of income. What has the Prices Commissioner to say on these matters? In a statement, prepared by him which was read by the Minister for Trade and Customs last, night, he differed entirely from the Minister. The latter says that whilst the duty on tobacco should be increased, the retail traders should sell it at a loss. The Prices Commissioner is not a politician.. He is not given, to making airy promises. He approaches these problems intelligently. He says, "Yes, we shall increase the sales tax on these items; but we shall allow the retail traders to increase prices accordingly". It is obvious that owing to increased prices generally, the pensioners will lose the benefit of their extra pension. This increase will be entirely fictitious. During the approaching Christmas vacation Ministers should place these facts before their masters. 
The Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  appears to be dumbfounded.  When  he makes his next oration to the Australasian Council of Trade Unions I ask him to be fair and tell his masters exactly what the Government's financial proposals really mean. He might very well say to them " Twelve months ago I told you that I opposed the increase of the rate of sales "tax by the dreadful Menzies Government, but to-day I am sorry to .say, I must tell  you  that we have increased that rate on numerous commodities by 100 per cent,.". I urge the Minister to place the facts before the trade unionists in order that public opinion may be enabled to view these matters intelligently. The Government, must bridge a gap of £137,000,000 before the end of June. I urge all hon.or.able senators opposite, including the extremist element in the Government party, when, they are next tempted to commit this country airily to huge expenditure of this kind which it cannot afford, to bear in mind the facts I have given. It is simply fooling the pensioners to give this rise to them and then deprive them of it by increasing indirect taxes. 
Two aspects of this measure deserve consideration, namely, the humanitarian and the economic. I propose to deal first with the humanitarian aspect, and to show that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  in his speech this morning has run true to form.  His  appeal to the Government did not contain one atom of humanitarianism.  His  speech savoured of an appeal to savages to allow the old people to starve. Apparently in the honorable senator's estimation the aged are' unworthy of the slightest consideration. After they have toiled all their lives, created vast profits for their employers, and have been fooled, ruled, and robbed from the cradle to the grave, they are to be denied mere sustenance. Now that they are no longer profitable to their employers, and are obliged to ask for something to sustain them in their declining years, the Leader of the Opposi0tion would not give them anything. He discards them as if they were not worth a second thought, and  looks  forward to  the time when- their children will grow up and be exploited as their fathers hare been. That is the outlook of a savage; it is in accordance with the ethics of the wolf pack. When the aged male wolf which has Icd. the pack and protected the young, year in. and year out, becomes too feeble to afford protection, TIle pack turns upon Lim and devours him. Here we have that attitude exemplified in  genus homo,  and personified in  Senator McLeay. 
Of course he did. From the  day the Labour party first advocated invalid, and old-age pensions, tlie party to which, the Leader of the Opposition lends his support has opposed them. However, we have succeeded, year after year, in breaking down that opposition to some degree. 
That is not a point of order. 
The honorable senator will have an. opportunity if he so desires to refute any statements which the Minister has made. 
Our arbitration courts Lave fixed a basic wage which they consider to be the minimum weekly remuneration necessary for a man and wife. If it were possible, I should be prepared to pay the basic wage to pensioners. And why not? If, during their lifetime, they have created all these profits, why should they not get a little back in their old age? That is all that is involved. Surely it cannot bc claimed that those so-called  entrepeneurs,  those colossal intellectuals and super-human individuals who are in charge of various commercial concerns, . create all the profits. Proof that that is not so is to be found in the fact that immediately workers say that they will not continue to work profits cease. In their individual capacity these super-men are just as helpless as any one else. The profits which are being made to-day on a colossal and unprecedented scale are created entirely by the workers. Yet when these workers grow old and weary, and cannot, take their places in industry, honorable senators opposite would deny them reasonable sustenance. It is not proposed that they should get the basic wage, or. even 30s. a week, but just  barely  enough to keep body and soul together. It is alleged that we are making the pensioners the plaything of politics, but that is not true. Honorable senators opposite are merely trying to rationalize their brutal inhumanity towards their fellow-men. I should like some members of the Opposition to come face to face with miners hewing coal, or workers who sweat day and night Iia udi ing white-hot ingots of steel at such huge industrial undertakings such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, and then say what they have said in this chamber. 
I turn now to the economic aspect. One would be almost led to believe that the proposed increase was in reality an increase, but that is not so. As the purchasing power of money has been substantially decreased, it is not in fact an increase, either in terms of gold or of commodities. The 23s. 6d. which it is proposed to pay will not buy the pensioner any more bread, meat, or fruit. I remind honorable senators opposite that they were mainly responsible for hundreds of thousands of bushels of fruit being allowed to rot on the ground rather than sell at rates which would have been within the reach of pensioners and other unfortunate individuals in the community. When I say that the purchasing power of the pension in terms of commodities is not equal to what it was previously, I am stating a fact. Compared with 1914 a £1 note to-day is worth only Ss. To-day we have an excess of production, and particularly of meat and other primary products. The policy of honorable gentlemen opposite is that those goods should be dumped rather than that, the invalid and old-age pensioners should be privileged to have a little more of them. Our excess products cannot be shipped overseas. Shall we do as is done in other countries, and. allow them to rot or be dumped, subsequently restricting production? By devious means it is possible to keep the workers dependent on the basic wage. Production is restricted, prices are kept at a high level, and the invalid and old-age pension is kept down. 
I am not surprised at the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition. He is running true to form. Twenty-five years ago, he would have opposed the payment of invalid and old-age pensions, lock, stock, and barrel ; but to-day, because the people believe that the provision of pensions is a legitimate charge on the Consolidated Revenue, he is prepared to admit the principle, although he would keep down the expenditure on pensions to the lowest possible amount. To say that his philosophy is similar to that peculiar to savages is to do an. injustice to the savages. When Australian aborigines have plenty to eat, no attempt is made by them to deny food to any tribe which may be short, of it. To-day we live in a land of plenty, yet honorable gentlemen opposite attempt to do what savages would not do. They would deny their fellow-men adequate food and shelter when plenty is available. If I have any criticism to offer regarding the attitude of my colleagues, it is that they are far too forbearing and. lenient, because they are inclined to give credit to the Opposition for a degree of altruism which, in my opinion, it does not possess. 1 may use language more forcible than that which some of my colleagues deem advisable. I ask honorable senators opposite to imagine how they would feel, in the autumn of their lives, when they could no longer work as in earlier years, if they were denied the elementary things necessary to sustain life. If they were denied a few crumbs in their old age, would they not consider that they had been treated brutally? The proposed increase of the invalid and old-age pension could be granted without honorable senators opposite ha ving to lose one meal, or one suit of clothes, or be deprived of any comfort. Could anybody imagine anything more brutal than such an attitude of mind? 
SenatorHerbert Hays. - That mind is not present in this chamber. 
SenatorGibson. - Except in the imagination of the honorable senator. 
.  - I congratulate the Labour party on making this early move towards increasing the invalid and oldage pensions'. One thing we must admire about that partyis that it is sufficiently courageous to cut across many of the old preconceived ideas as to what should or should not be done with regard to the elderly folk in the community. Ever  sinceI have been connected with politics, I have taken the stand that there is nothing too good for them. What I am afraid of is that the financial policy of this Government is such that not only will this increase be necessary,but also many more, so longas Labour remains on the treasury bench. It requires only a bread-and-butter economisttorealize that the Labour party's method of finance will tend to increase prices,and cause inflation which will depreciate the value of the  £1,so  that the real value of the pen si on will bemuch less than the £1 3s. 6d. a week which the Government is new offering. Continual increases of payments to meet the rising spiral of costs will lead only to tragedy. It is more than probable that we shall later be asked to pass an amending bill providing for a further increase of the pension by 2s. a week, instead of1s. 6d. a week. The Government cannot claim any credit for that part of the increase, namely, 6d, which is due to the increased cost of living. 
Senatorcollings.  -  But it is giving it a month earlier than it would have taken effect normally. 
-. That is a small matter. 
The Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  has laid down a financial policy which is more detrimental to the invalid and old-age pensioners than to any other section of the community. Persons, like the pensioners, who are in receipt of fixed incomes, and those who receive superannuation and similar forms of pensions, have no recourse to increases of their income as have workers who can appeal to arbitration courts. I picture the elderly people calling at the village post office for their old-age pensions, and the Minister in charge of this bill  (Senator Keane),  accompanied by his Melbourne colleague, the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron),  waiting behind a nearby hedge to "dry gulch" them as they come out of the post office, andpepper their hides full of buckshot in the form of taxes by means of the cost blunderbuss that the Treasurer has shown himself to be capable of using effectively. For every cup of tea that the old folk take, they will have to pay extra, because the price of tea has gone up 2d. a lb. recently, and, according to the Minister for Aircraft Production, a further rise of 4d. a lb. can be expected in the near future. I can imagine his senior colleague, the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane),  turning to him, and saying, "My word, Don, we got them that time. Let us give them the other barrel ". 
I said " hedge " ; a tree would not be big enough. Every time a pensioner wants to light a match, drink a pot of beer, or to fill his pipe, the same thing will happen. The Treasurer and the Minister for Trade and Customs seem to think that they can sit on the lid of rising costs merely by differing from some departmental officer and saying that the increased costs shall not be passedon. But if the brewer, who, by means of an increased excise duty, finds the money with which to buy labels to stick on the casks, is not allowed to pass on the added costs, Australians will have to drink that foul " war beer " that people in the Old Country had offered to them in the last war. No man can run a brewery, or any other industry, on rising costs which he himself has to pay. He must either pass on those costs, or reduce the quality of the ingredients of the article that he offers for sale. The increased costs will be an additional burden on these unfortunate people. I do not know of anything more brutal or callous than to give something to a person with one hand and to slap him in the face with the other hand. Yet that is what the Government is doing to the invalid and old-age pensioners. In other words, the Government is posturing for political purposes. At various places along the coast of Western Australia pensioners are trying to eke out a living by fishing, but this brutal and callous Government desires that they shall pay heavier taxes on the gear used by them to catch the fish. 
If that is not "bush-whacking" or "drygulching" I have not heard the terms properly defined. The crocodile tears of the Minister for Aircraft Production - it would be more correct, perhaps, to describe them as glycerine tears, since glycerine is used in the factories under his control - are as nothing compared with the hypocrisy of giving with one hand to the pensioners and slappingthem in the face with the other hand. And sothe story goes on. I take second place to no person in this chamber in my regard for these elderly people. I have helped them, and will help thorn on every possible occasion. Should the Government seek to increase the invalid and old-age pension I shall help it to do so, but I do ask it to have some regard to the economic structure of the country and not to force up costs. Food and other costs rise quickly enough without being forced up. That financial genius, the Treasurer, is doing his utmost to force costs up; by increases of the sales tax, he seeks to increase the cost of living. One might think that the weight of the Minister in charge of this bill  (Senator Keane)  would be sufficient to keep down the lid on. vising costs, but despite his efforts, costs are rising. Unfortunately, it is true that prices are actually being forced up by the methods adoptedby the present Government to financethe country. The Government is doing a disservice to these elderly people, who deserve the best that this country can give to them. 
Those of us who look to the morrow, and put something away for our old. age, generally in the form of assurance policies, will be penalized. Under our existing legislation, a person who takes out an assurance policy, the value of which he hopes will increase as the years pass, will automatically be debarred from receiving the invalid or old-age pension should he fall on evil times in the future. Soma means of more generously assisting assured persons should be provided in this measure. I do not doubt, the sincerity of the Government in its humanitarian regard for these people, hut I urge it to consider the point mentioned, in order that the thrifty people in the community shall not be penalized through being denied a. pension. No one can say to-day what the future has in. store for him. The Government should take every step possible to ensure that the value of the pension is not dissipated before it is paid over the counter to the pensioners.I say frankly and bluntly that a government which forces up costs by indirect taxation - and I never thought, that I would live to see a Labour government do that - is not having regard to the welfare of these elderly people. On. the contrary it is merely taking the back-door way, the cowardly way, to raise money - in the hope that no one will see the tax-gatherer sneaking in. The best way to extract money from the people is by a direct tax on incomes, because that tax, if applied properly, falls on all persons alike, and ensures that every one contributes his or her share towards the cost ofconducting the war. I know of instances of small contributions towards the war effort being received from pensioners, and I applaud them for their patriotism, but I warn the Government that its proposals for financing the country must inevitably have the effect of increasingc osts and reducing the value of the pension which the pensioners receive every fortnight. 
. -I am glad to know that invalid and old-age pensioners are to receivea greater sum each fortnight in. future. The additional amount which will be paid to them is small, but there is some consolation in the knowledge that the first payments will be made before Christmas. I had hoped that it would be possible to increase the pension to 25s. a week forthwith, but although that is not contemplated, I am pleased that early in the New Year that will be the rate of the pension. I am pleased too, that the Government has decided that certain Lebanese and other Asiatics will in future be eligible for pensions, and. I hope that when legislation is introduced in the new year to increase the rate to 25s., Australian aboriginals living a civilized life also will be included. These people are entitled to more than 25s. a week.In his policy speech as Leader of the Australian Labour party (non-Communist), the present Minister for Supply and Development  (Mr. Beasley)  said that he hoped that a Labour government would be able to increase the pension to 30s. a week. 
Even 30s. a week is not sufficient, in my opinion. 1 should like to see every pensioner receive an amount equivalent to the basic wage. On three occasions composite United Australia party and Country party governments gained control of the treasury bench because ofa promise to expend £20,000,000 on housing, but they never attempted to spend one penny in that direction. Can honorable senators opposite point to a worse example of political trickery? Yet honorable senators opposite jibe at the present Labour Government because of its promises to the pensioners. I am confident that among honorable senators opposite there are some who object not only to the pension being increased, but also to paying any pension at all to these oldpeople. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  said that the present time is not opportune to increase the invalid and old-age pension. That always has been, and always will be, the cry of men like the honorable senator whenever an expansion of social services is contemplated. I rejoice that on the 11th December next the pensioners will receive 23s. 6d. a week, and that early in the new year that amount will be increased to 25s. a week. The McKell Labour Government in New South "Wales has gone farther: it has extended to invalid and old-age pensioners the right to travel on railways, tramways and omnibuses at half rates. 
I thought that the honorable senator was sincere when, at the commencement of his speech, he referred to the invalid and old-age pensioners. Doeshe not know that many of these people have to visit, hospitals for treatment because they cannot afford to pay a doctor to visit them in their homes? In the aggregate, these people travel thousands of miles each year in order to receive treatment in various hospitals throughout Australia. Moreover, the Government of New SouthWales provides an attendant to accompany pensioners to hospital in certain circumstances. The privilege of travelling at half rates enables pensioners to take an occasional trip by tram orbus to places of interest. I do not think that the pensioners will appreciate what  Senator Allan  MacDonald has said about their money being expended in buying beer. After meeting necessary expenses for food, rent and clothing, there will not be much money left out of their pensions with which to buy beer. I imagine, too, that the consumption of tea by these old people will have to be considerably reduced in the future. Various organizations have written to me and to other members of this Parliament asking for support of the Government's proposal to increase the pension. . 

 Silling suspended from 1845 to 2.15 p.m. 

The members of the invalid and old-age pensioners' organizations throughout Australia are as decent and reputable citizens as are to be found in any other organizations. I am confident that they will appreciate the value of the assistance rendered to them by the Government. I trust that the day is not far distant when social services of all kinds will be extended and that the means test will be abolished. I look forward to the day when the qualifying age for the receipt of old-age pensions will be reduced, in the case of men to 50 years, and in the case of women to 45 years, and when the wealthy sections of the community will be subjected to a special tax in order to provide the revenue required to meet the pensions bill. A precedent for the abolition of the means test has already been established in the child endowment legislation passed by this Parliament recently. I trust that the Government will see its way clear not only to increase the pension rate still further but also to bring down a scheme of widows' pensions on lines similar to that which is now in operation in New South Wales. 
I congratulate the Leader of the Opposition on his second-reading speech on this bill. When dealing with a proposal such as is contained in this measure it is the right and duty of the holder of that important office to draw the attention of the people generally to the large but not unjustifiable expenditure of public money involved. During the course of  h is speech the honorable senator referred to the dimensions to which the appropriation for invalid and old-age pensions has grown. In order to bring the people to a realization of the enormous amount of money involved in the provision of invalid and old-age pensions, the honorable senator said that the net proceeds of the whole of this season's wheat crop will be insufficient to pay the annual pensions bill. He did not oppose the payment of invalid and old-age pensions; on the contrary, he commended to honorable senators the object for which this money is appropriated. Honorable senators cannot but be mindful of the fact that the cost of the splendid social services provided by State and Commonwealth Governments has to be met by 7,000,000 people. In view of our small population we are doing remarkably well. Every honorable senator was, I am sure, astounded at the unwarranted, abusive, and unprovoked attack on honorable senators on this side of the chamber by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron). 
On other occasions I have replied to the extravagant remarks of the Minister, not that I was specially called upon todo so but because I could not remain silent after listening to his typical outbursts. On this occasion the honorable senator's attack was entirely unwarranted. I venture to say that when he reads the proof of his speech he will be ashamed of it. It is not for me to play the part of schoolmaster and deliver a lecture to the honorable senator. Whatever his disposition might be, whatever his inclinations are, he cannot shed his responsibility as a Minister of the Crown to maintain the dignity of this chamber. 
The Minister should he thoroughly ashamed of himself. 
If the honorable senator's remarks are to be taken as evidence of the feeling of his colleagues what chance is there of securing the goodwill and co-operation of honorable senators on this side of the chamber? Honorable senators on this side are only too willing and anxious to co-operate with the Government in every way; but an unwarranted and unprovoked attack such as was made by the Minister will do nothing to foster a spirit of cooperation in this chamber. The Minister should set an example of good conduct to others. What are the facts about the pensions legislation? We have no desire to claim that the parties on this side of the chamber have alone given consideration to the betterment of the people of this country. The Minister knows that the statements he made this morning are untrue. He said that honorable senators on this side of the chamber have always opposed any increase of the invalid and old-age pension rate. 
SenatorCameron. - I said more than that. The parties represented by honorable senators opposite resisted the granting of the invalid and old-age pensions when that reform was first mooted. 
The facts are well-known. An anti-Labour Government was in office when the first Invalidand Old-age Pensions Bill was passed by the Commonwealth Parliament. It is also well known that with one exception every increase in the rate of invalid and old-age pensions has been grantedby a government supportedby the parties on this side of the chamber. 
-Not at all. I admit that in every instance the proposals for the increase of the pension rate were supported by the members of the Labour party. The Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration was instituted by an anti-Labour government. Similarly, the child endowment scheme was initiated by a government supported by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. It ill-becomes a Minister of the Crown to make abusive statements which are not in accordance with the facts. 
The Leader of the Onpositio.11 said, amongst other things, that contributions should bc made towards the establishment of a fund for the extension of social services generally. The Minister for Aircraft Production bitterly opposed such a suggestion, yet I remind him that no member of this Senate has enjoyed greater privileges than -he has as the result of contributions made by the workers towards the expenses of the party to which he belongs. 
That is  a  matter of opinion. I have no desire to indulge in personalities-- 
 Order! The honorable senator is not in order in referring to contributions made to- union funds fdr-  the purpose of providing the salaries of  its executive- officers. I ask the honorable senator to connect his remarks with the bill. 
Every word uttered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  revealed the conservative mind which has much to answer for in this great crisis. It takes no notice of the passing of time, and the great changes which time brings. The honorable senator compared the pe11sion figures of 1917 with those of 1941. Does he not realize that in that period our population has increased, and the productive capacity of this nation has increased? That means that the capacity of the nation to afford this increased cost has increased correspondingly. However, such facts never occur to the conservative mind. Professor  Sir Grafton  Elliott Smith, one of the most notable men of our time, in. his introduction to  Human History,  says - 
Most  nien, even without being consciously dishonest, or wilfully stupid, seem to be unable to examine heterodox views with understanding and impartiality. U lie inertia of tradition and the lack of courage to defy it when new evidence fails to conform to it. seems to be potent enough to blind all, except the ablest and most fearless of men, to the most patent facts. 
Honorable senators opposite have referred to my ideas on finance as foolish, fanatical and mystical. There is nothing mystical about them, because they are embodied in the report of the Royal Commission on Monetary and. Banking Systems, appointed by. a government which honorable senators opposite supported. 
When the idea of paying old-age pensions was- first proposed, the conservative mind replied that such a proposal was very bad- indeed, because it would discourage the great and valuable asset of thrift. The original rate of pension was fixed at 12s. 6d. a week.  Whilst  I do not suggest for a moment that we should do anything that would discourage thriftiness, I point out that it was the thrifty people who. suffered most as the result of the financial crash in 1S92 when the banks and building societies went bankrupt. Those people lost all their savings in that crisis, which was brought about mainly by the rapacity of those institutions. That catastrophe made it necessary to provide pensions for these people in their old age, because the savings they had accumulated through years of thrift were completely lost to them. Had they not been given an oldage pension they would not have been able to live. Do honorable senators opposite realize than 60 per. cent, of people who work all their lives and morally earn a pension in their old age never reach the age at which they can qualify for the pension? That is another fact which the conservative mind should recognize. Sixty per cent, of the people who really earn a pension to assist them in their old age never receive a pension, because they die before they reach the qualifying age. I have heard speeches delivered in the House of Representatives along the Tines of that delivered by the Leader of the Opposition to-day. The honorable member concerned had something to say - about pulling money out of the skies. That, of course, is the reaction of the conservative mind to a new idea. I have shown how this war can be financed without extra taxation, but honorable senators opposite are  So  immersed in tradition that they cannot appreciate that fact. ' I have told honorable senators over  and  over again the reason why this heavy taxation is necessary.  Senator Herbert  Hays has just said that this increase of the pension will be of no real benefit to the pensioners, because it will be absorbed in meeting the increased costs of commodities. The fact is that the benefits will be nullified by increased taxes. I have proved to all but the conservative mind that no necessity exists for further increasing taxes in  Order  to finance this war. Our main purpose in increasing taxes is in order  to  meet the interest accruing on our past borrowings. I have known many people who were better off than  Senator Gibson  is to-day, who were forced on to the dole as the result of the bank smash in 1892. They lost everything they possessed. That financial epidemic and the bank-created depression sent more people to their graves than any epidemic  or  disease. This bill  is  long overdue. A nation such as Australia, with an earning capacity of £1,000,000,000 per annum, can readily afford to meet this slight increase of invalid and old-age pensions. 
.- First, I should like to congratulate the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane),  who  introduced  this bill, upon an innovation which I have long advocated, namely, the circulation of copies of second-reading speeches delivered by Ministers. That  is  a great improvement. I hope that the Government will also make provision for the distribution each morning of " pulls "  of  all the speeches delivered  in  this chamber on the previous day. At present honorable senators are provided with proofs of their own speeches, and it would be necessary to supply only a few more proofs in order to provide honorable senators with a complete report of the debates of the previous day. 
I have advocated it on several occasions. 
It is a great pity that so much heat should be evinced in a debate of this description. It seems that members of the Opposition have only to breathe a word of criticism against any of the Government's proposals, to be branded as inhuman and brutal. The remarks made by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  this morning were quite uncalled for. What he said was untrue, and insulting because honorable senators on this side of the chamber are just as humane as are honorable senators opposite. No right-thinking person would believe the accusation made against the Opposition by the Minister. For proof that the allegations were without foundation, one has only to study the social legislation placed on the statute:bool during the past 50 years. On many occasions the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  has deplored the fact that his party had never been in power sufficiently long to pass the social legislation which it believed to be desirable. It is quite true that during the past 50 years the United Australia party, or the Conservative party, or whatever it may be designated, has been in power for a large proportion of the time, but it is also true that no country has better social legislation than Australia. 
I am .not referring particularly to invalid and old-age pensions. I am speaking of our social legislation generally. I contend that our social legislation, for most of which the United Australia party or similar political parties have been responsible, is better than that of any other country. That should prove quite conclusively that we are not the inhuman people which honorable senators opposite believe us to be. I also resent the claim made by the Minister for Aircraft Production that it was the pensioners of to-day who brought Australia to its present state of development. No doubt they did their share, but they represent only one section of the people. To say that they alone made Australia what it is to-day is . absolute nonsense. Many of them were wonderful pioneers, but to give them the entire credit for our present economic structure is nonsense. The pensioners are only a section of the people, and they are entitled to no more than their fair share of the good things which this country can offer. Our criticism of this measure and of other similar legislation is not actuated by inhumanity or selfishness. It emanates from the belief that in war time an extension of social benefits is inopportune. Our opposition does not arise from the fact that we arc opposed to invalid and old-age pensioners. It is not that wc do not wish to give them all that wc possibly can, but we contend that in this time of stress, when our finances are strained to the utmost and every penny is required for war purposes, the people generally should not be burdened with extra payments to pensioners. There is a distinct possibility that our ordinary expenditure will exceed our revenue and, as was pointed out by  Senator Allan  MacDonald this morning, we are not doing the pensioners a particularly good1 turn by increasing pensions whilst at the same time we place additional impositions on practically every commodity which they use. It would have been preferable to have left pensions at the existing figure, with perhaps provision for a rise or fall according to variations in the cost of living, and thus to have avoided the necessity for some of this heavy indirect taxation. 
I should like to commend the Government in respect of one clause which has been included in this bill. Quite a number of pensioners own property which they cannot sell except, at a very great sacrifice, but the value of their equity in the property causes a reduction of the rate of pension. I know quite a number of pensioners whose property is valued at a sum which interferes seriously with their pension, whereas the property is not worth a quarter of the valuation which is placed upon it. The 'Commissioner of Pensions should Iia ve the right to place his valuation on a pensioner's, property. 
It has been stated that when further amendments are made, provision will be made for the payment of pensions to aborigines who are living a civilized life. Before the Government takes that step. I trust that it will consider the proposition very carefully. Whilst I cannot, speak authoritatively in regard to other States in South Australia large sums of money are being expended on the aboriginal mission stations at Port Pierce, Port McLeay and elsewhere. The aborigines are being exceptionally well treated, and I do not think that it is necessary to bring them within the. scope of this legislation. They live on the settlements all their lives and are given rations. To pay them a pension in addition, would be extravagance. I am quite prepared to support this measure, and I can say quite honestly that I am glad that the old people are to. receive this increase. However, I do believe that the time is inopportune for this legislation, and therefore I am .compelled to come to the conclusion that the invalid and old-age pensioners are being regarded from a political rather than from a social viewpoint. 
When I decided to speak on this bill, I was under the impression that the Opposition intended to oppose it. However, after hearing the more recent speeches of honorable senators opposite, I have been agreeably surprised to learn that the bill is to be supported by them. It seems, therefore, that when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  criticized the Government for incurring this additional expenditure of  £1,771,000,  he was not speaking on behalf of his party. The honorable senator gave his interpretation of what happened in the Labour caucus in regard to this measure. As I said yesterday, the mind-reading capacity of honorable senators opposite is sometimes defective. I say the same to-day of the Leader of the Opposition. He is not a good clairvoyant. Obviously, he is incapable of mind-reading, because he is completely astray in his impressions of, what happened on the occasion to which he referred. This bill came before the caucus and was  agreed  to unanimously. There is nothing wrong with that. It was also decided that at the earliest possible date we should honour our pledge to the electors. Surely there is nothing wrong with that. As I happen to be the only honorable senator present to-day apartfrom another honorable senator, whose name has already been mentioned, whose surname commences with  the  letter " A", I  am  proud to state that I supported the proposal to introduce a measure  later  to increase the invalid and old-age pension to £1 5s. a week. But I should not be proud to admit that I would not. favour an increase of the invalid and old-age pension, unless a similar advantage were given to the big wheat-growers of this country as I remind the Leader ' of the Opposition that we do not see old-age pensioners going cap in hand to the Liquid Fuel Control Board every week, pleading for some petrol to use in their big motor cars. The pensioners are paid only the meagre allowance of £11s. 6d. a week, which is now to be increased to £1 3s.6d., and that is all they have to live on. Nobody should quibble if it were double that amount, yet honorable senators opposite claim that if invalid and old-age pensions are to be increased, wealthy property-owners must also have their incomes increased.Obviously, such an argument cannot be substantiated. The Leader of the Opposition also claimed that this was not the time for the introduction of social welfare legislation. Actually, with an increase of 2s. weekly the pensioners will not be any better off than they were a few years ago, when they received only £1 a week. This measure  is  merely an indication of our endeavour to maintain existing social conditions. The Leader of the.  Opposition  suggested that it was unnecessary to increase invalid and old-age pensions to 23s. 6d. a week, because social legislation in the Commonwealth, such as the present provisions for pensions, child endowment and repatriation benefits was far superior to that in operation in Europe. Does the honorable gentleman wish those who fought for us in the last war  to  be brought down to the same level as the inhabitants  of  the countries that have been overrun by Hitler? The only in ference to be drawn from his remarks is that he does. No amount that we could pay to the invalid and old-age pensioners would be too great. 
Almost every member of the Opposition who spoke on the measure tried to pump life into the corpse of national insurance, but the Opposition itself was responsible for the defeat of that proposal. The tail that was wagging the dog brought about that result. The Labour party favours a national insurance scheme, but not one that would prevent the workers and others from being able to purchase sufficient of the necessaries of life. If honorable senators opposite meant what they said when they contended that the establishment of a national insurance scheme would save the present expenditure on invalid and oldage pensions, why did they not go on with it when they were in office? Why did the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Menzies)  resign from ministerial rank when he could not get his own. way with regard to the scheme? The Leader of the Opposition stated that under national insurance the invalid and aged would pay for their ownpensions and would not be in receipt of a dole. If the honorable gentleman regards the pension as a dole to those who have helped in the development of Australia, and in producing the profits in which the honorable senator shares, God forgive him. I regard the pension as an inheritance to which invalids and the old folk are justly entitled. They have earned every penny of it, and my only regret is that the bill does not provide for an increase of the pension to 25s. a week. I hope that the Parliament will be called together early in the New Year, and that another measure will be brought down providing for an increase of the pension to 25s. a week. If the necessary funds cannot be provided in any other way, I suggest thatwe should increase the taxes of those who have said that in order to help in overcoming the financial difficulties of the Commonwealth they are willing to forgo the income they receive in excess of £500 a year. 
.- I have never listened to a debate in which there has been more deliberate misrepresentation of members of the Opposition than has been indulged in by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  and  Senator Aylett  with regard to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay).  My leader would have neglected his duty to the country if he had not drawn attention to the economic and financial problems confronting Australia. He made no suggestion that he was opposed to the payment of invalid and old-age pensions, nor that in proper circumstances there should not. be an adequate increase of the pensions. lEven during my own term in the Senate, which now extends over  24  years, I have seen the bill for invalid and old-age pensions increase from about £3.000,000 to over  £20,000,000.  Members of the Opposition have no desire that any proper payment to the pensioners should be withheld from them in their declining years; but it is" imperative that public men should direct attention to the financial burden being - imposed on the community, and seek to ascertain whether more equitable means whereby the obligation could be met could be devised. In the light of what, has happened, I regret that the National Health and Pensions Insurance Bill did not become operative. In view of the high level of wages and employment in Australia the establishment of a national insurance scheme would have resulted in the building up of a large fund that would have been ' invaluable during the post-war period. One of the reasons why there was great difficulty in regard to the measure was that it did not cover a sufficiently wide field, and in many cases it duplicated existing services. In Queensland, for instance, various social services have been provided by the Government of that State, and if the national insurance scheme had been, superimposed upon the State schemes, industry and workers alike would have been - faced with a difficult situation. I look forward to the time when Australia - will have a comprehensive national insurance scheme, and there will be no other State government schemes in competition with it. It would be a good thing if every individual in the community were encouraged to provide for his own superannuation,- so that, the payment would come to him, not as a charity, but as a right. 
For the last  15  or  20  years, invalid and old-age pensions have been increased by several hundred per cent. Yet arbitration courts throughout Australia have awarded increased wages and have improved the conditions of those engaged in industry. We all know, and are gratified, that the conditions of employment in this country have improved, and it is most desirable to encourage thrift among the people, so that they will be able to provide for themselves in the declining years of their lives; but, unfortunately, under the method of government adopted, those who try to make a success of their lives are always penalized. Such persons are targets for every form of taxation, until it seems that governments of the day desire to encourage only that section of the community which is prepared to lean on the administration and not make an effort to secure financial independence. As I have said, I regret that a complete scheme of national insurance is not in operation throughout Australia to-day. The Labour party was completely hostile to the proposal. When the measure was under consideration in this chamber, the Senate did what it had never previously done. It met on a Saturday, because it was known that a large number of new Labour senators were to take their seats in the following week, and that they were opposed to the desirable form of national insurance provided for in the measure. The Labour party bitterly opposed the bill entirely on political grounds. It objected to it because it had been introduced by the parties now in opposition. 
We know perfectly well that Labour, when in opposition, opposed the bill. 
The Leader of the Senate knows that his party was opposed to the bill. I resent, the suggestion that has been made by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron),  who made a most unworthy attack on members of the Opposition, and particularly on my leader. Had he not indulged in that abuse of members of the Opposition, this bill would have been passed perhaps, a, couple of hours ago. I offer the Minister a word of advice; he certainly needs' it. I suggest that he should allow the .Minister in charge  of the bill  (Senator Keane)  to take charge of the debate on 'behalf of the Government, and. not to rush in where angels fear to tread. If the honorable senator thinks that he can use his ministerial position in this chamber to make inaccurate and unfair statements without a reply from the Opposition, he is mistaken. He has demonstrated, as wo all knew, that he is a 'immaterial misfit. I draw the attention of honorable senators, who have been so anxious to criticize and attack mem.be.rs on this .side, to the history of invalid and old-age pensions in this country. Such, pensions were first introduced by the Deakin Government in 1909. At that time the rate of the pension was 10s. a week, or £20 a year. In 1916 the pension was raised to £32 10s. a year by the Labour Government then in office. With the exception of a .period of two years during  the depression, when the Scullin Administration was in office, governments representing the political parties now sitting in opposition were on the treasurybench. Those governments steadily increased the amount of the pension as circumstances made it possible to do so. In addi tion, they improved the conditions associated "vit.li. the granting of pensions, until finally the rate reached. £52 per annum. 
That statement by the Leader of the Senate is utter nonsense. If he will examine the division lists of this Parliament he will find that the 'rate of pensions was increased by governments with the same political outlook as the present Opposition when such governments had a majority in each House of the Parliament. One increase was granted when the representation of government members was 52 to about 20 sitting in. opposition. What pressure could those twenty exercise which would force the then government to take certain action? At the time the majority in the Senate was about two. to one in favour of the government of the day. Indeed, on. one occasion when the invalid, and old-age pension was increased there was only one  representative  of the Labour party in the Senate. It is sheer nonsense, humbug and hypocrisy to say that the Labour party exercised"" pressure which forced an increase of the pension. There was no need for any pressure to be exercised, because members outside the Labour party have as much con.5idcra.tion for their fellows as have members belonging to that party. The only difference between Labour and its opponents is that whilst Labour members are content with lip-service, the others prefer  to render practical service to those in need. "We on this side, and governments holding views similar to ours, have not sought votes from any particular section of the community. We have not said, " Vote for us, and you will get a little more for yourself ". When non-Labour Governments have been in control of this country they have done the best possible for every section of the community, in order to ensure that the burden would not bear unduly on any one section. I remind honorable senators opposite that the only reduction of the invalid and old-age pension was made by a Labour government. That reduction was  brought about because the government of the day was in. financial difficulties and had to use the pruning-knife in many directions. Had the Scullin Government listened to the representations made by the parties in opposition to it, as to the need to put the financial affairs of the country in order, instead, of waiting until the country was nearly bankrupt, there would have been no necessity to reduce the invalid and old-age pension, or to reduce wages generally so drastically as was done. Only the cowardly neglect of the financial affairs of the country brought about that state of affairs. Honorable senators now sitting on this side of the chamber have every reason to be proud of what the parties to which they belong have done for the pensioners of this country, and, indeed, of their achievements generally in matters of social legislation. I point out, for instance, that it was not a Labour government which pegged the pension to the index figure so that it would rise with any increase of the cost of living. Non-Labour governments have many other forms of social legislation to their credit. For years efforts were made to improve the conditions of men employed on ships travelling in the waters around the Australian coast. A government composed of members of the parties now in opposition brought in the Navigation Act which provided for decent conditions for seamen. The Menzies Government was responsible for giving effect to a scheme of child endowment which the Labour party had mouthed for some time but had not done anything to bring about. Indeed, that scheme was criticized severely by numbers of persons closely associated with the Labour movement both inside and outside Parliament. I exclude the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator Keane)  from this criticism because he gave a fair and careful analysis of the position in regard to pensions. The Leader of the Opposition pointed out that there are other sections of the community which have been badly hit by the conditions which now exist, and may be hit again. You,  Mr. President,  know that many primary producers have experienced great difficulties because of bad seasonal conditions and other causes, and that over a number of years many of them have not shown a return greater than that of numbers of old-age pensioners. All that the Leader of the Opposition did was to draw attention to the financial difficulties confronting the Government. 
SenatorFOLL. - If the Minister for Aircraft Production thinks that he will silence members by making abusive and inaccurate statements - and he has been in the habit of making them both before and since he entered this chamber - he will find that there are men on this side who will oppose him in the interests of the whole community. In bringing before the Senate a careful analysis of the country's financial position the Leader of the Opposition has rendered a distinct service. 
I see  Senator Brand  smiling, and so I smile in return. I find it somewhat amusing when honorable senators on both sides wax hot in debate. To a man who has in him a large streak of humour there is something humorous about a number of otherwise amiable gentlemen decrying one another over a question that has been settled long ago. Anyone who is not so seriously minded as to be devoid of humour must be struck by what has occurred in this chamber this afternoon. I shall try, without heat, to put the position in regard to invalid and oldage pensions impartially. I may find thetask difficult because I was brought up among workers who had to fight hard for a crust, and suffered many disabilities in an unequal struggle against those who took every opportunity to exploit them. However, anyone who views this matter calmly and coolly will admit that pensions were first established in this country as the result of the activity of persons associated with the Labour movement. When  Mr. Deakin  was Prime Minister, the Labour party offered its support to the Administration in return for certain concessions. One of those concessions was the introduction of a scheme providing for invalid and oldage pensions. That is how this social legislation first found its way to the statute-book. In its efforts to improve social conditions, the Labour party has always been opposed by what  Senator Darcey  calls the conservative mind. I speak quite impersonally when I say that honorable senators opposite represent that section of the community which is conservative. It. is historically correct to say that the conservative element in the community has always opposed reforms, including the introduction of invalid and old-age pensions. 
The political history of the Old Country where I was born-- 
I am not taking orders from  Senator McBride.  It may be that the honorable senator has some slaves working for him, to whom he gives orders; buthe is not giving me orders. If the honorable senator persists in interjecting, I may have to speak longer than I intended. 
I am not discrediting myself. Any impartial listener to me to-day will say that at least one honorable senator has tried to speak calmly, and to deal with the subject in a way which would reveal the truth to those who either heard him or read his speech. I was about to refer to the political history of the Old Country. When I was a boy the workers of that country began a movement to compel the Government of Great Britain to grant pensions to men at the age of 75 years and to women at 70 years. I have a vivid recollection of a certain lord in the Old Country saying that if 5s. a week were given to such persons the morale of the workers of England would  ho  undermined. That speech was delivered nearly 40 years ago, but it is still clear in my memory. When I was in Canada, where I was a. member of a party which advocated reforms, I found that the conservative section of the community fought bitterly against us. The same thing is revealed by a study of Australian history ; the conservative element has always been opposed to reform. However, as the result of education and intense political activity, various governments have been compelled to bring about certain reforms. If we indulge in recriminations like a lot of school children it shows that we are lacking in perspicuity and that, despite our grey hairs, we have not reached the age of mental manhood. I agree at once that governments supported by the parties opposed to Labour were responsible for placing, the invalid and old-age pension legislation on the statute-book and for increasing the rate of pension. That was because anti-Labour governments were in power at the time. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that they were forced to do so by the pressure exerted on them by the Labour party and as the result of outside agitation. Honorable senators opposite have conveniently forgotten the fact that the Lyons Government, which they supported, inserted in the pensions legislation restrictive clauses relating to income from property. This should not be a matter for recrimination, hut one in respect of which the plain facts should be stated. The invalid and old-age pensioners in this country were worried to death when It was stated by the Lyons Government that it. would compel them to sign away their properties. The facts speak for themselves. They are within the knowledge of every officer of the Pensions Department. 
A number of erroneous statements have been made by honorable senators opposite whichcall for correction. As an intelligent, member of this Senate I am merely desirous of stating the position frankly and. impartially so that those who read  Mansard  will know that at least honorable senators on this side of the chamber are prepared to give the facts about the pensions legislation. Honorable members opposite have stated only part of the truth. I have admitted that governments supported by the parties which sit in opposition have placed on the statute-book legislation embodying reforms of our pensions legislation; but had I sufficient time I could prove by quotations from speeches and by historical records that these reforms were brought about as a direct result of pressure and agitation by mem- bers of the great Australian Labour movement. It is frankly admitted that some of the greatest reformers the world has known have been men of substance; but, speaking generally, as a class our economic rulers, and. those who support them, are conservatives. It is only the bottom dogs who have waged the fight for reforms. If a man is well contented and has everything that life can give, if he sits on soft cushions and clips his coupons and draws his interest, he will naturally be a conservative. That is inevitable. But if a man has to struggle in order to keep his job, is constantly faced with the possibility of being thrown on the unemployed market, and when he reaches the age of 65 years, after a lifetime of struggle, still finds that he is "broke", he will naturally advocate the payment of pensions. That is only sensible reasoning. During my long membership of this 
Senate I 'have always appealed to honorable senators not, to be guided too rauch by mathematicians, not to be frightened unduly by figures. Unfortunately, many thousands of people to-day are frightened by figures. During his speech 'on this bill the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  criticized the Government, as he has a perfect right to do. I did not object to his criticism. I do not object even, when honorable senators opposite use such expressions as " hypocrites " and " cowards " in their condemnation of us. As I have said on other occasions, my epidermis is too thick to permit, those expressions to upset me. The Leader of the Opposition, viewing this matter from the angle of the dyed-in-the-wool conservative, spoke of the many millions of pounds that have been expended on invalid and old-age pensions, and tried to frighten the people by saying that a. few years ago the pensions bill amounted to £3,000.000, that to-day it is £20,000,000, and 'that it, will soon be £30,000,000. Let lis look at Australia as an economic unit. In this time of war, when foodstuffs are not being shipped away in the same quantity as they were before the war, we should be guided by realities, not by figures. This country is capable of producing all. the foodstuffs that its people require. The productive capacity of this country is sufficient to enable us to give to the invalid and old-age pensioners the standard of comfort that is represented in 23s. 6d. a week. I feel sure that, we should give them a weekly pension with which they could purchase goods to the value of 25s. As the result of this war the old conservative idea of finance, as wc understand it to-day, will be swept aside and before long we shall develop an economic conscience, on economic understanding that will impel us to look at this question, not from the point, of view pf figures, of so much money in the bank, or of so much interest earned through the financial system, but as one to be determined by the productive capacity of the nation.  Senator Herbert  Hays appears to be laughing at me. Does he think I am not serious ? 
Any one  who  listens intelligently to me must know that I am not joking. I am trying to show to honorable senators that there arc thousands of people in this community who have resolved that they will not stand for financial humbug. 
I am. referring to conservative financial humbug. I realize that there are what may be termed the earnest and sincere humbugs, those who actually believe the false doctrines which they preach. I am speaking kindly of the honorable senator. I have listened to such financial humbug from honorable senators on the other side of the chamber for many years. As the result, of this war a new order has been set up in the world based on the capacity of the nation to organize itself as an economic unit in order that its people may produce all that is -essential for mili tary and economic purposes. The Labour party has to deal with the realities of the situation. It is placed in the unfortunate position qf having  to  remedy the mistakes of the past; but whilst it has to work within the ambit of the financial system it 13 compelled to deal with the invalid and. oldage pensioners in the manner prescribed in the bill now before us. We are trying by this bill to reform and improve their lot. As time progresses this or some other Government will be compelled to set aside the financial system as we understand it to-day and organize the community on a real economic foundation which will enable every man to be placed in employment so that he may become a producer for the common good of the nation. If, as has been tritely said by  Senator Darcey  so many times, it is possible economically to do the decent thing by our invalid and old-age pensioners then we shall make it possible under a new financial system. Is not that plain? Those of us who look a little ahead realize that it is possible in Australia to-day to give to every man and woman over 60 years of age a modicum of comfort which expressed in financial terms is valued at, more than 25s. a week. 
Thirty years ago, when I was a young boy, I joined the Social Democratic Federation of Great Britain. At my first meeting I listened to an inspiring address by a man of high intelligence and wonderful oratorical ability,  Mr. H.  M. Hyndman, the leader of the SocialDemocratic Federation. At question time, when  Mr. Hyndman  was trying to show the need for national organization for the benefit of the whole of the people, a member of the audience at the back of the hall said, " Oh ! They tried that in Paraguay ".  Mr. Hyndman  pointed out to him that we were dealing hot with the matter of a few people going to South America and forming a colony on certain theoretical lines, but of the nation and the empire as an economic whole. It is utterly beside the point and most futile and foolish for any honorable senator who aspires to be recognized as an intelligent human being to endeavour to floor me by saying, " Oh, that was tried in Paraguay ". 
In Germany there is a form of national socialism which we do not like and which we do not want to be imposed on the world. Under that form of government the individual is crushed, individuality is stamped out, and the State is paramount. The German people, however, because of their knowledge of finance and of real economics have been able to organize their nation to the highest peak of efficiency ever known in the history of mankind. As the result of the financial system being forced to be the servant of the nation, Germany to-day is an enemy we cannot afford to despise. Let us take a lesson from that country and, through our democratic machinery, let us see to it that as the Parliament of thiscountry we do our best for our invalid and aged people, even in time of war. If we do that we shall live to be called the blessed. Ihave no ill-will towards honorable senators opposite. I haverecognized the stupidity of some of their remarks; but, at the same time, 'I realize that they have been' bred in a' certain environment, and are affected byreason of that fact just as we are affected by our environment. However, the fact remains that invalid and old-age pensions are the direct result of the efforts of intelligent and honest Labour men who have fought for them. Those pensions have been secured as the resultof the activities of men and women who have been prepared to risk economic ostracism and even gaol itself. Those facts cannot be disputed. All of the. shrewd words ofhonorable senators opposite, and all of the quotations they have made from  Hansard,  cannot gainsay the fact that, whilst conservatism is a strong force in all countries, the reformers generally have arisen from the lower sections of society which are represented in this country by the present Government. 
 I am sure that honorable senators listened with interest to the remarks of the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat, and accept the apology he has made. He dealt with much historical matter, giving us certain quotations, some of which he misinterpreted. Nevertheless, in spite of his use of camouflage, he was obliged to admit that the social services of this country have very largely been instituted by governments of the political colour of the party now represented by honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Consequently, no good purpose will be served by recounting the history of those social services. During the last few days, we have had evidence of the great strain under which members of the Government are working at present. Having had the privilege of occupying a seat in the previous Cabinet, I recognize that heavy calls are made upon Ministers from time to time, and that these calls are felt very acutely by Ministers opposite who are new to their jobs and are obliged to pick up the threads of the work in their various departments in a most difficult period. For that reason the irritation and impatience which has been exhibited byone or two Ministers in this chamber lately can be excused. Yesterday, we had an unfortunate occurrence when the . Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings),  who has been a member of this chamber for a very long time, chided the Opposition in a fashion most unworthy of a Minister simply because, in accordance with democratic parliamentary practice, we criticized the budget and the Sales 
Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill.I remind him that when he was Leader of the Opposition he showed no diffidence at all in criticizing measures introduced by the Government of the day. Therefore, on second thoughts, perhaps, he will admit that the Opposition has not only a right, but also a duty to perform in that respect. I need hardly say that we intend to carry out that duty. To-day, another Minister figured in an outburst which would he unworthy of a private senator. I refer to the tirade which the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  levelled against members of the Opposition in a fashion for which he has become famous, or infamous, during his membership of this chamber. He resumed the practice which he has indulged in to a very much greater degree outside of the Senate. He endeavoured to appeal to mob psychology and "Yarra Bank" philosophy. He accused the Opposition of complete indifference to the welfare of the pensioners and, indeed, of all our people on the lower social scales. On many occasions we have heard similar outbursts from this honorable senator. Apparently, whilst he is prone to make allegations of that kind, he overlooks the fact that those people, inside and outside of this chamber, upon whom he usually concentrates his attacks, are the very people who have made it possible for this and other governments to provide the social services which the people of Australia at present enjoy. He usually concentrates his attacks on big companies and individuals who possess property and wealth. I point out that it is due to the energy, capacity and willingness of those organizations and individuals that the workers of this country are enabled to get jobs under conditions which we are proud to describe as Australian industrial conditions. So far as I know, and I am open to correction on the matter, the honorable senator himself has never by his own initiative, or capacity, originated any of the conditions which our Australian workers enjoy to-day. 
Honorable senators on this side are just as much in sympathy as are honorable senators opposite with the pensioners, and other people who are not so fortunately placed economically as we ourselves are. Consequently, it is not from any inhuman motive that we criticize the measure now before us. We realize our responsibility as members of this chamber in dealing with legislation brought before us. In respect of a measure of this kind, which proposes to improve one of our social services, we must consider our capacity to finance the proposals submitted to us. Unfortunately, as has been stated in the debate, the subject of pensions has been made the shuttlecock of party politics. Referencehas been made to the attempt by a. previous government to withdraw the subject of pensions from the realm of party politics by setting up a national insurance scheme. I, personally, regret that that measure, which has been placed upon the statute-book,has never been im plemen ted. I believe that the present is an opportune time tobring it into operation. Although honorable senators opposite, as the Opposition of the day, opposed that scheme, I believe that as they have since risen to positions of greater responsibility they now have a better appreciation of the part played by social services in our economic structure, and, consequently, are now more favorably disposed towards that scheme. In reply to  Senator Aylett,  I submit that the opposition to that scheme on the part of those who were to benefit under it, was insupportable. I remind honorable senators that the Labour Government of our sister dominion of New Zealand established a somewhat similar scheme and called upon the beneficiaries under it to contribute towards it on a scale very much in excess of that which was embodied in the scheme introduced in this Parliament. I have no doubt that something of that kind must be introduced in the near future. We cannot deal with this measure without paying regard to its financial implications. Taxation has already reached such a high level in this country that we must soon reach a point beyond which we shall be unable to go. That observation applies in respect of not only taxation but also loans and extension of bank credit. In 1918-19, during the last war, the total income tax collections by the Commonwealth Government amounted to just over £10,250,000, or an average tax of £2 10s. a head of the population. In 1919-20, at the conclusion of the last war, that figure had increased to nearly £13,000,000, whilst the average per head of population remained approximately £2 10s. During the last financial year, 1940-41, the amount raised by way of income tax exceeded £39,000,000, and, under the Government's present budget, it is estimated that, during the ensuing financial year, income tax collections will amount to nearly £57,000,000, or an average of a little over £8 per head of the population. A similar trend is apparent in respect of taxation as a whole. In 1918-19, all tax collections by the Commonwealth Government amounted to £33,000,000, or £6 10s. per head of the population, compared with the estimate under the present budget for 1941-42 of a total of £158,000,000, or an average of £22 per bead of the population. It is futile to suggest that we can go on granting concessions to one section of the community, without having any regard whatever to the financial capacity of this nation, whether by way of taxation, loans, or what has been consistently advocated by several honorable senators opposite, credit expansion. One criticism which I have to offer is that honorable senators opposite are continually suggesting to the people that by their method of administration, they will improve the living standard of the community during the war. That is a bad impression to be promulgated by any government. 
It is a very good objective, and one which we all share; but there is a proper time to endeavour to reach such an objective, and I suggest that the present is not the proper time. I say again that honorable senators opposite are continually laying stress upon the claim that their ideals and objectives are improving the conditions and standard of living of this country. Obviously, their objectives and ideals are in that direction. There is not one honorable senator in this chamber who does not share those ideals and objectives, although some of usmade a more realistic approach to this matter, and appreciate the fact that if Australia is to render a full war effort, in collaboration with the rest of the Empire, not only willour living standards not be raised, but also they may not be maintained. When we are giving lip service to this ideal of a 100 per cent. war effort, we should analyse just what such an effort involves. If we do that, we shall realize that our war effort during the past two years is not so creditable after all. Our achievements during that period have been gained under almost ideal conditions. We have had no interruptions, no invasion, and no air raids. Consequently, we should have been able to do very much more than has been done by our kinsmen in the Old Country, who have had to contend with air raids, and real shortages of essential commodities. Not only have their living standards not been raised, but they have been substantially reduced. 
That is an interjection which I did not expect from the Leader of the Senate, or from any member of the Government. The honorable senator is obviously trying to mislead the people into believing that because this Government will increase wages-- 
Yes, but the implication is that the wages of people in this country will be raised. 
Even if the honorable senator did not mean that, it has often been said by honorable senators opposite. It is entirely misleading to make the people believe that they will benefit by increased wages when honorable senators opposite know that the policy which has been" adopted by this Government will reduce the real value of wages. I am endeavouring merely to compare what we are doing in this country with what is being done by the people of Great Britain. In this budget, we are devoting less than 25 per cent. of our national wealth to our war effort, whereas in Great, Britain under the 1941-42 budget, it is proposed to devote approximately 40 per cent. of the national wealth to the war effort. That comparison indicates clearly that now is not the  time to. talk- of raising standards of living; rather is it the time to devote our attention, wealth, energy and resources to the war effort. 
I do not remember my leader saying anything of the kind. As I said when speaking in the budget debate, I have no objection to the high rates of taxation. My only complaint is that the taxation increases have not been carried right down the scale. I am prepared to submit to any rate of tax _ which I consider necessary to enable this country to make its contribution to the Empire's war effort. Consequently, I maintain that whilst an increase of invalid and old-age pensions ds most desirable and is supported by all of us in principle, it is' something which should not be done until Australia is in a position to devote more of its income to national security. 
.- I believe that I may have been responsible to some degree for the trend which this debate has taken. The discussion would have terminated much earlier-had- it not been for the provocative speech made by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron).  Recently I chided Ministers in good humour, and said certain things which apparently induced the Minister to embark on a diatribe and to make charges against honorable senators on this side of the chamber which should not go unanswered. I remind the Minister and his colleagues that the position which they occupy on. thai side of the chamber is totally different from that which they occupied when in opposition. If, by their ill-feeling, they deliberately provoke the Opposition to make, reprisals, they have only themselves to blame. The Minister for Aircraft Production has the most conservative mind of any honorable senator. I define a conservative mind as one which never alters its outlook, never learns anything, and never gains by experience. He has been saying the same things for the last 50 years. Apparently he was born in bitterness, nurtured in ill-feeling, and has been indulging in this type of oratory ever since. In defence of honorable senators on this side of the chamber I should like to point out that it is the desire of every one that die less fortunate members of the community should receive all the comforts and conveniences which the community can give to them. But, is those honorable senators who pose as the particular .champions of the pensioners choose to set us by the ears and create a feeling of bitterness, they have only themselves to thank if the business of this chamber is delayed. 
I shall support the bill, although, as I indicated in my speech on the budget, I regard this increase as more apparent than real. Probably the greatest piece of social legislation ever passed by this Parliament was lost to the community because of the wholehearted and bitter opposition of the members of the Labour party. I refer to the National Health and Pensions Insurance Bill. I have always supported national insurance, and I sincerely hope that when conditions improve sufficiently, that act will be implemented. However, I still believe that the scheme should be on a contributory basis, so that when a worker is too old to take his place in industry, or is incapacitated, he will be given, not charity, but something which is his by right. It ill becomes the Minister for Aircraft Production to accuse honorable senators on this side of the chamber of inhumanity, cruelty and brutality. It is true that the working people create the wealth of every country. Everybody knows that; but the man on the .basic wage does not create all of the wealth. Every man who works contributes his share. Probably one-third of this country's wealth is owned by the State, and another one-third is required every year for the services of the community. It cannot be suggested that the invalid and old-age pensioners are solely responsible for this nation's wealth. If .the speech made by the Minister for Aircraft Production accusing honorable senators on this side of the chamber of inhumanity and brutality, is. an example of the speeches which we are to hear in future from the treasury bench, more opposition, and probably a little bitterness may be expected from this side of the chamber. 
.  -  in reply  - I am indebted to honorable senators for their support of this measure. WhenI was a member of the Opposition I endeavoured to deal with parliamentary business in such a way , as to eliminate friction, and I shall continue on those lines while I am a Minister. The introduction of this bill arose out of a report by the Joint Committee on Social Security, on which each branch of the legislature has an equal number of representatives, and it may be taken that the subject with which the bill deals has been considered exhaustively. The majority of the amendments provided for are the result of inquiries made by the committee from departmental officers and others who have special knowledge of the subject. 
That is so, but it favoured' pensions for widows and orphans, and it recommended the adoption of a scheme of unemployment insurance. It had not taken sufficient evidence on those matters to justify final recommendations regarding them. I am glad that the present Government has entered into arrangements that will enable the joint committees that have been set up to continue their useful work. The information already gathered by them has been helpful to all of the members of those committees, and I am sure that the report of the committee dealing with social security has proved of value in the preparation of the bill. 
Little of the criticism that has been offered regarding this measure calls for a reply from me. The gravamen of it is that, perhaps, the increase of invalid and old-age pensions was inopportune, in view of the war conditions prevailing; but I maintain that, despite the war, some instalment of the new order is necessary. Senators Allan MacDonald and James McLachlan claim that, despite the proposed increase the recipients of the pension will be heavily mulct in additional payments because of the new taxation proposals in the budget. I point out, however, that the majority of the commodities purchased by pensioners are exempt from sales tax. . The increased excise duties on beer and tobacco may be felt to some degree by them, but some government must grapple with the revenue problem and evolve a formula to overcome the difficulty due to increases of wages going up the staircase and the cost of living going up in the lift. It was remarked by  Senator Foll  that the Scullin Government had had to do objectionable things. He said that if it had grappled with the problem of the finances of Australia earlier in its career, it would not have had the trouble that it experienced later; hut when that Government came into power in 1929, the loan market of Great Britain was closed to us, the price of primary products had fallen, and 400,000 men in Australia were out of work. 
A fiduciary issue of £18,000,000 would have given £500,000 a month for twelve months to the men on the land, and £1,000,000 a month for twelve months to the unemployed. Conditions were so bad that Great Britain increased its fiduciary note issue from. £50,000,000 to about £900,000,000. On that occasion this Senate prevented relief from being given to the vast army of people in Australia who needed it. I give an assurance that the present Government will not indulge in any crazy scheme of finance. 
That is not so. The budget provides for the raising of revenue by means of loans, and I resent the propaganda comments of the honorable senator. The policy of the Government is to reform the Commonwealth Bank as far as possible, so that it will exercise the functions discharged by it before it was emasculated by the BrucePage Government in 1924. The private banking interests will not be interfered with, apart from the control to be exercised under the regulations that are to be promulgated under the National Security Act, and the nature of those regulations will he known to the whole of the community.For the present the 
Government will persevere with the system of raising money by means of loans, because increased revenue has to be found immediately. The assistance of the public was assured when the recent loan of £100,000,000 was fully subscribed, but that amount is but a small proportion of the total sum that will be required. 
I have experienced heckling similar to that received by the Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron).  He and I regard political problems from similar points of view, and 1 believe that he had some warrant for his remarks, because when he was a member of the Opposition he received rough treatment at the hands of the present Opposition. In my opinion, he is not deserving of the accusations which some honorable senators opposite have levelled against him. I am in agreement with  Senator James  McLachlan that pulls of  Hansard  should be made available to honorable senators daily when bills are under discussion, so that those who have not spoken on the measures may ascertainwhat has already been said regarding them. I shall ascertain what can be done in that matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee 

Clauses 1 to 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13 (Direc tor-General of Social Services). 
 What will be the position of members of the staff of the Pensions Department after the DirectorGeneral of Social Services has taken control? Where will the head office of the department be situated, and will the Deputy Directors of Pensions in the various States retain their present status and offices? 
.- The main objective under the clause is the alteration of the title of the officerincharge from secretary to the Department of Social Services to that of DirectorGeneral of Social Services. The head office is now in Sydney, but we hope soon to transfer it to Canberra. The branch organizations will remain as they now are and the staffs will not be altered. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
-In conformity with the sessional order, I formally put the question - 
That  the  Senate  do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
.- Will the Minister representing the Treasurer obtain for the information of honorable senators the exact total amounts which the private banks and the insurance companies reconverted and contributed in new money towards the recent war loan ? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave -  I desire to inform the Senate that the Commonwealth Government has approved a request made by the Premier of Tasmania that an investigation similar to that recently conducted in Western Australia be made into the effect of the war on the economic position of Tasmania. A committee will be appointed to make a survey of the economic position of that State as affected by, and in relation to, Australia's war problems and its war effort, and to report to the Commonwealth Government. Details regarding the constitution of the committee will be the subject of consultation between the Governments of the Commonwealth and of Tasmania. 
'Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Army inform the Senate as to whether Australian troops are engaged in the present battle on the Libyan front? 
I shall have inquiries made regarding the matter, and a reply to the honorable senator's question will be furnished. 
Recently I directed the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce to a press paragraph stating that there was an acute shortage of apples in Australia. The Minister promised to make a statement regarding the matter. When is a statement likely to be made? 
The decision of the Government with regard to the apple and pear acquisition scheme has not yet been reached. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research ask the Minister to have inquiries made regarding the depredations in New Zealand of the piebald butterfly which is now in the southern portions of Australia, in view of the fact that last year this pest turned its attention to the pasture lands of New Zealand with somewhat devastating results? I understand that a body in New Zealand similar to the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research has introduced a parasite to combat the pest? 
I shall be glad to comply with the honorable senator's request. 
I lay on the table the following paper: - 
Use of certain public moneys - Report by the Honorable  Sir Percival  Halse Rogers, K.B.E., Royal Commissioner. 
There being an absolute majority of the whole number of senators present and no dissentient voice, I declare the question resolved in the affirmative. 
 by leave -  On the motion for the adjournment of the Senate last Thursday,  Senator Foll  referred to a report published in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail,  and also to the alteration of the system of censorship with regard to speeches delivered in this Parliament. In the course of his remarks, he said that the censor had been brought to Canberra for the purpose not so much of censoring members' speeches, but in  order to obviate any delay regarding their publication, and that I had altered that arrangement. That is not entirely correct, because any alteration brought about in the procedure with regard to the censorship of speeches in this Parliament was due to a unfortunate blunder that occurred some months ago. A voluntary censorship was then in operation, and precisely similar conditions obtain to-day. During the first eighteen months of the war it was not necessary to have at Canberra an official in receipt of £1,500 a year merely to listen to what was said in this Parliament. I saw no reason to bring the ChiefCensor here for the purpose of censoring the speeches of members of either House. 
Reference was also made on Friday to the political atmosphere associated with the censorship. In my opinion, the bringing of the Chief Censor to Canberra during the sittings of this Parliament was a political act. He was brought here because the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Spender)  issued instructions to that effect to an officer of the Department of Information. At the time, the then Minister for Information  (Senator Foll)  was engaged in this chamber, and could not leave it. The honorable senator rightly resented such interference by a colleague. The outcome of that action was that the Chief Censor was brought here to censor speeches made in this Parliament. Since the change of government there has been no alteration of the system of censorship ; the position to-day is the same as that which existed prior to the unfortunate blunder in connexion with the discussion in the other chamber on the campaigns in Greece and Crete.  Senator Foll  also said that I was unfair to the Acting Director of Information,  Mr. Williams.  The newspaper in which  Mr. Williams  is particularly interested is the only one to my knowledge which has made any comment in regard to the altered position. 
 Mr. Williams  commented adversely on me in a section of the press. 
He is a member of the executive in control of the  CourierMail,  and I have no doubt that he has a good deal of influence over what appears in its editorials. When I saw the comment on the subject in the  Courier-Mail  I issued the following statement to the press :  - 
As far as I know this is the only metropolitan daily newspaper in Australia which has thought fit to criticize this commonsense procedure, and it is significant that the  Courier-Mail  is a paper with which  Mr. J.  Williams, former Acting Director of my department is associated in a prominent executive capacity. 
I also appreciate that I may have had the benefit of this gentleman's advice officially, if he had not decided to resign the position of Acting Director immediately after touring the Netherlands East Indies with the former Minister for Information,  Senator Foll. 
The position as regards censorship of parliamentary debates is not correctly presented by theCourier-Mail this week because newspapers and broadcasting stations are still obliged to observe censorship instructions the same as they did prior to the outstanding blunders of censorship in regard to certain news emanating from Canberra a few mouths ago, after which the then Government deemed it necessary that a representative of the Censorship Department should attend all sessions of Parliament in Canberra. 
Subsequently  Mr. Bonney  wrote to me and I replied in the following terms: - 
The position with respect to censorship of statements made in the House by members is no different to-day from what it always has been, i.e. - 
The obligation still rests with the press and broadcasting stations to submit to censorship any matter the publication of which it is considered would be a breach of security; 
The  Speaker  of the House of Representatives and the  President  of the Senate will further assist censorship by drawing the attention of the Chief Censor through the Minister to any breach of security committed by members in the course of their speeches, so that the attention of the press might be specially invited to it. 
There has been no alteration of the censorship in respect of the proceedings in Parliament. The action taken by me is in keeping with that taken by my predecessor,  Senator Foll,  when he took exception to another Minister interfering with the administration of a department under his control. I do not hold  Senator Foll  responsible for the unfortunate blunder which occurred in connexion with the campaigns in Crete and Greece. I am confident that when the position is understood, and particularly when  it is  known that the  Courier-Mail  is the only newspaper which has complained, there will be no further criticism. 
 by leave  - I was glad to hear the explanation of the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  and I assure him that I recognize his right to administer his department as he thinks fit. I was anxious that no injustice should be done to  Mr. Williams  by the suggestion that he stayed with the department until he had had a trip to the Netherlands East Indies and then immediately left it in order to take up other work. I wish to make it clear that it was due entirely to me that  Mr. Williams  remained in the department as long as he did. He came originally for three months, but I was glad to have his services during the time that the Director of Information was absent owing to illness. I am confident that my successor would also have been glad to have had his services. 
The reason why  Mr. Bonney,  or some other official of the Censorship Department, was brought to Canberra whenI was Minister for Information was not that speeches made in this Parliament should be specially censored, but in order that there might be greater uniformity in regard to the methods of censorship. The present Minister for Information will find that one of his greatest difficulties will be that of obtaining uniformity in the various States. The unfortunate happenings in connexion with the reports of the campaigns in Crete and Greece arose out of different interpretations in the several States. Some newspaper proprietors fulfilled their obligations because, not being sure whether certain information should or should not be published, they referred it to the censor, whilst others went ahead and. published it on their own responsibility. The Chief Censor was brought to Canberra to ensure that when some doubt arose as to whether certain statements should be supplied to the public, the information should appear in a uniform manner throughout the Commonwealth. I repeat that that was the main reason why the censorship was represented here, and not because the speeches of members of the Parliament should be subjected to censorship. It was done to help the press. 
asked the Minister for the Interior,  upon notice - 
.  From whom did the Government purchase the land on which the Villa wood factory is being erected? 
What price was paid for the land? 
What is the area acquired? 
The answers to the honorable senators questions are as follows :  - 
The Commonwealth acquired the land on which the Villawood factory is being erected by compulsory process under section 15 of the Lands Acquisition Act 1906-1936. There are 266 claimants involved in the acquisition whose claims are now being dealt with. 
The estimated cost of the whole area, including improvements is approximately £43,400. 
The total area of the land acquired is 807 acres. 
asked the Leader of the Senate,  upon notice - 
Regarding the contract or agreement entered into by the Government with Australian Consolidated Industries Limited for the making of motor car engines - 
Is that contract or agreement transferable? 
Will the Government make available the contract or agreement for the perusal of senators ? 
The Motor Vehicles Agreement Act of 1940 authorizes the Government to enter into an agreement with the Australian Consolidated Industries Limited regarding the manufacture of motor car engines. So far no agreement has been entered into. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a statement in theCourier-Mail, Brisbane, of Monday, 17th November, to the effect that because the Sarina alcohol distillery output could be increased by 2,000,000 gallons a year, the Federal Government is not likely to build new factories in Queensland? 
Has the Government yet given consideration to the Power Alcohol Commission's recommendation that immediate action should be taken to erect distilleries to produce 40,000,000 gallons of power alcohol per annum ? 
In view of the great hardship to the people engaged in primary industry, due to petrol rationing, will the Minister indicate to the Senate as early as possible the Government's intention regarding the building of power alcohol distilleries in Queensland? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers.: - 
Yes. 
Yes, but the Power Alcohol Committee also stated that it regarded a15 per cent, blend of power alcohol with petrol as the optimum blend. It therefore recommended the use of this percentage. Arrangements are now in train for the production of 12,000,000 gallons of power alcohol per annum from wheat and 7,000,000 gallons per annum from cane products. In addition to this, the Power Alcohol Committee drew attention to the fact that there were distilleries in Australia capable of producing about 5,000,000 gallons per annum of 95 per cent, alcohol. There are indications that some at least of these distilleries will come into production using sugar, wheat and waste grape products as raw materials. On the present petrol rationing basis the total production of alcohol already arranged for would be approximately sufficient to provide a 15 per cent, mixture spread over the whole of the consumption of Australia. As far as Queensland is concerned the output of 4,000,000 gallons per annum at Sarina will, on the present petrol rationing basis, provide approximately a 15 per cent, mixture over the whole of the State. 
In dealing with the question of the production of power alcohol arising out of the report of the Power Alcohol Committee, the Standing Committee on Liquid Fuels, then under the chairmanship of  Sir David  Rivett, recommended that as a first objective 7,000,000 gallons per annum be produced from cane products and 10,000,000 gallons per annum from wheat. In submitting these recommendations the Standing Committee drew attention, amongst other matters, to the plant position resulting from the munitions programme and to the desirability of developing other sources of liquid fuels such as shale petrol and benzole. 
The Power Alcohol Committee recommended that 72 per cent, of production of power alcohol be obtained from wheat and 28 per cent, from cane products, thereby emphasizing the desirability of maintaining an equitable balance as between the wheat and sugar industries in connexion with supplies of raw materials. Under the programme for the production of 12,000,000 gallons per annum from wheat and 7,000,000 gallons from cane products63 per cent, will be obtained from wheat as compared with 37 per cent, from cane products. 
It will be seen that the programme of production of power alcohol is governed by several factors, one of which is supplies of petrol sufficient to provide an optimum mixture. The present Government does not, however, regard this programme as static, but rather one which will be developed to meet changing conditions and circumstances, and the claims of Queensland will receivethe fullest consideration in connexion with any expansion which may be decided upon. 
See reply to 2. dirkhartogisland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
On what date was the Commonwealth Memorial Tablet erected on Dirk Hartog Island? 
Who took part in the ceremony? 
On 7th December, 1938. 
The tablet was fixed without ceremony to the lighthouse tower during a maintenance visit of the lighthouse steamerCape  Otway  to Dirk Hartog Island. 
asked the Minister respresenting the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that by reason of the Labour Government's decision to eliminate the exemption of £50 for children after the first child in arriving at the taxable income of a married man with three children, such a taxpayer with an income of - (a) £350 would now have to pay federal tax of £6 13s. 4d. per year: (b) £400 would now have to pay federal tax of £136s. 8d. ; on income earned in the financial year 30th June, 1941, whereas under existing legislation federal tax is not payable on such incomes? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer: - 
Yes, but the taxpayer would receive during this year £26 in child endowment benefit, not payable in the previous year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
How many of the permanent members of the Royal Australian Air Force have volunteered for service overseas during the year 1940 and the year 1941? 
The Minister for Air has furnished the following reply:- 
All members of the Royal Australian Air Force are liable, under the terms of their enlistment, for service both at home and overseas. Service overseas by members of the Permanent Air Force is not, therefore, dependent upon their having volunteered for such service. Members of the Permanent AirForce have, since the outbreak of war, as a matter of necessity, been utilized to a large extent as instructors and in other key positions. Notwithstanding this necessity, over 400 of them are giving and have given active service abroad. It should be understood thatthe possibility of overseas service for members of the Permanent Air Force is somewhat restricted, inasmuch as it is only possible to post them for service with Royal Australian Air Force units abroad as distinct from Empire Air Training Scheme units. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice - 
What is the function of the Copper and Bauxite Committee? 
Exactly why has the committee gone to Tasmania - is it for a pleasure tour of the S State, or to test metal deposits? 
Is it a fact that some members of the committee hold big interests in copper leases and/or copper mines in Australia? 
Is it a fact that some member or members of the committee hold big bauxite leases in Australia? 
Is it a fact that some members of the committee hold big financial interests in bauxite leases in Australia? 
Has the committee made any report to the present or previous Government? 
If so, is the report available to senators? 
What remuneration in salary or allow ance do the members of the committee receive? 
Would it not be possible for elected representatives of this Parliament, who have no financial interest in copper and/or bauxite mines or leases, to make an investigation and report to the Minister, if such a report is desirable or necessary? 
SenatorFRASER. - The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers :  - 
The functions of the Copper and Bauxite Committee are to investigate the copper and bauxite resources of Australia with a view to stimulating production of copper and to determine whether supplies of sufficiently good quality bauxite are available on which to base an aluminium industry. 
The committee is at present visiting Tasmania for the purpose of investigating deposits of copper and bauxite. The visit is being made in the performance of its functions and at the direct request of the Premier of Tasmania. 
Yes. 
A member does hold leases over bauxite deposits. 
Answer to previous question discloses that a member of the committee holds leases over bauxite desposits. As to the exact value I am unable to state. The leases arc granted by the State Government and the degree of their development for the production of aluminium is the determining factor as to their value. 
The committee has made six reports to the Government since it was appointed in June last. The first report was entitled " Preliminary Statement on Australian Bauxite Resources ". The second, third, fourth and fifth reports dealt specifically with copper, and the sixth report dealt with the copper, alunite and bauxite resources of Western Australia. 
These reports contain information which it would be unwise to make public in wartime, but I shall be pleased to discuss these reports with the honorable senator. 
Members of the committee, with the exception of  Dr. H.  G.Raggatt, the Commonwealth Geological Adviser, who is a public servant, are serving in an honorary capacity, but they are paid fares and a travelling allowance of two guineas per day when travelling on the business of the committee. 
Whilst I am Minister I shall welcome any investigations members of the House of Representatives or the Senate feel they would care to make. Further, I feel it is a duty of the elected representatives of the Parliament to take a close and active interest in the development of the mineral resources of this country. I shall be pleased at any time to receive the considered opinions of the honorable senator or any other members on this important subject. 
On the 21st November,  Senator Allan  MacDonald asked - 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer obtain for the information of honorable senators the exact total amounts which the private banks and insurance companies reconverted and contributed in newmoney towards the recent war loan? 
The Treasurer has furnishedthe following reply: - 
Cash subscriptions to the recent £100,000.000 war and conversion loan by trading banks and life insurance companies amounted to £6,411,000. 
On the 19th November,  Senator Foll  asked if the Minister representing the Minister for the Army was aware that considerable inconvenience was being caused by, and complaints made regarding, the insufficient quantity of equipment supplied to those who have volunteered to serve in the Home Defence Force. The honorable senator's statement was brought to the notice of the Minister for the Army, who advises that it has not yet been possible to make an adequate issue of arms and training equipment to the Volunteer Defence Corps, as the first necessity is to maintain the equipment of the Australian Imperial Force and to equip the Australian Military Forces. Some service rifles have been made available to the Volunteer Defence Corps and further issues will be made as opportunity offers. The situation with respect to equipment will now permit an issue of 3-in. mortars and sub-machine guns being made, and the issue of other weapons and equipment will follow as soon as earlier priority requirements can be met. In the meantime, every assistance is being given to the training of the Volunteer DefenceCorps wherever possible by close affilia tion with the battalions of the Australian Military Forces and by making available the drill halls and unit training equipment of those forces. 
When the debate on this motion was adjourned, I was pointing out that the Government's taxation proposals are based on the principle of placing the burden on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. I have not been able to grasp too clearly the objections which honorable senators opposite have raised to the budget. Some of them complained that too great a tax is to be placed on large incomes, whilst others contended that too great a burden will be placed on the lower incomes. Consequently, I find it difficult to determine exactly what is the attitude of the Opposition to the budget proposals. I believe that actually they Lave no real objection to them, but are convinced that they are wise and necessary in the existing circumstances. Honorable senators opposite have been silent regarding the proposal to increase soldiers' pay. I take it that in this instance silence implies consent. However, they expressed general opposition to the proposal to increase the rate of invalid and old-age pensions, contending that the present is not an opportune time to improve that social service. On that point, I can only remark that that objection was invariably advanced by their political predecessors whenever a similar proposal was made in the past. 
Can I take it then that the Opposition supports the Government's proposal? 
And, perhaps. I can take it that honorable senators opposite agree that theGovernment's plans for meeting its huge future expenditure is on the whole, very reasonable. 
I have listened to it with great interest. In respect of invalid and old-age pensions, Icould not help but recall the position which existed in this country in. my very early days. All non-Labour parties strongly opposed the institution of invalidand old-age pensions. Before the advent of the Labour Government in Queensland, when we were fighting for this reform, the system in vogue in that State was disgraceful. When old people could no longer work, they were placed in an institution at Dunwich, a very pretty  island adjacent to Brisbane. Husbands and wives were segregated, and obliged to spend the evening of their lives apart fi om each other simply because they were no longer able to earn their living. The Labour party abolished that most undesirable system. In fact, the establishment and improvement of our system of invalid and old&lt;-age pensions have been due almost exclusively to the efforts of the Labour party. 
Honorable  senators  opposite will remember, no doubt, the late  Mr. J.  0. Watson who died only recently. Because of the concessions which he won as leader of the Labour party in this Parliament from the Deakin Government, the press throughout Australia declared that whenever  Mr.  Watson  asked  Mr. Deakin  for anything.  Mr. Deakin  invariably replied, " Yes,  Mr. Watson  ". That saying became proverbial in the political life of the rime. 
I am pleased to hear the honorable senator say that, but I remind him that  Senator James  McLachlan devoted a good deal of time to an attack on the Government in that respect. He stated that we could not afford this expenditure in the present circumstances. He also stated that the Government, whilst handing this increase to the pensioners, would take it from them through indirect taxes. Honorable senators opposite cannot have it both ways. They have objected to the Government's plans in respect of taxation, extension of credit and borrowing. I can only conclude that they are putting up a sham-fight and arc not offering any real resistance to the Government's proposals. An objection raised to this budget, more particularly by certain interests outside of this Parliament, is that the Government has not taxed lower incomes sufficiently. Only a short while ago the Fadden Government imposed increased taxes on incomes up to £1,500. Thi3 Government has decided to allow those rates to stand. 
They were too objectionable. In order to offset the unequal taxation imposed in the various States the Fadden Government proposed to introduce a system of compulsory loans under which taxpayers in all States would make a similar contribution to the national revenue either by way of direct taxes or by compulsory loans. That was an objectionable proposal because, whereas taxpayers in, say, Victoria, would be contributing a substantial proportion by way of loans which would be repaid with interest at the end of the war, taxpayers in Queensland would be paying only in the form of taxes, and would not get, anything returned. 
I believe that in the present circumstances, it would be unwise to reduce the purchasing power of the people to too great a degree. The average working family living in modest circumstances can be relied upon to spend its income in a reasonable manner. 
It is. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  said he was satisfied that the people had sufficient good sense to spend their money wisely and not to squander it on non-essentials. 
That is some-  thing which has to be determined by this Government and by the people of Australia. Luxuries should not be imported into this country. 
If the honorable senator visits Sydney or Melbourne lie will see in any of the large emporiums frocks costing £13 13s. or £14 14s. each. I believe that the young ladies of this country are sufficiently attractive without having to rely on expensive clothing to improve their appearance. Such expenditure should cease. In any case, working families to-day have very little opportunity to spend money on non-essentials. The average worker on the basic wage has difficulty in making ends meet. One of the most unfortunate effects of war conditions is that large incomes are being made by big businesses in the cities, at the expense of country districts. I was disappointed at the lack of any direct reference in the speeches of honorable senators opposite to our primary industries. In addition to pegging the prices of primary products, all costs associated with primary production should also be pegged. Some big concerns are becoming wealthy at the expense of the people, and it is this Government's policy that individuals in receipt of high incomes shall be compelled to contribute a larger share to our war effort. I regret that the Government has not been able to restore concessional income tax deductions in respect of children on whose behalf payments are made under the child endowment scheme. One of the best accomplishments of the Labour party was to secure an exemption of £50 in respect of dependants. The present system is unjust and bears very heavily on a man in receipt of a small income. As I have already mentioned, working-class families pay a considerable amount in indirect taxes by way of the sales tax, and in other ways. Usually anything that they are able to save is paid either to assurance companies or the savings banks, the funds of which are available to the Government for the prosecution of the war. Honorable senators opposite have lauded these wealthy institutions for their substantial contributions to war funds, but those big concerns depend for their existence upon the contributions of the people. 
Some individuals with a one-track mind imagine that the war can be won only by sending large numbers of troops overseas, but I remind them that the time will very soon arrive when there will have to be a re-organization of our internal economy. Until now, there has been serious neglect of our internal economy, and little consideration has been given to the adverse effects on the production of essential commodities caused bythedespatchoftroopsoverseas. 
SenatorCOURTICE.- No ; but I think that we can achieve a better war effort if we concentrate on the production in this country of foodstuffs required by our allies. I should like our surplus wheat to be shipped to Russia. It is claimed that shipping space is not available, and I am quite sure that none would have been available in the future had honorable senators opposite continued in office. For years, I have been urging the Government to undertake the building of wooden ships in Queensland. In that State, I know a man engaged in building pleasure yachts who is anxious to undertake the construction of wooden ships for use in the present national emergency, but he has not received any encouragement from previous governments. I have not a great knowledge of the technicalities of shipbuilding, but I should think that Queensland timbers are eminently suitable for the purpose. In that State also, there is an adequate supply of tradesmen to do the work. Wooden ships should have been built in Queensland long ago. They could be of great service to us in our war effort. 
I repeat that it would be far better to concentrate to a greater degree upon producing foodstuffs and their despatch overseas, thus bringing about a more balanced internal economy. That will have to be done if this war lasts much longer. At present, recruiting drives are being carried out in country centres which have already been depleted of their man-power, and in which crops cannot he harvested owing to the shortage of labour. In addition, there has been a rapid gravitation of labour from the north to the southern States, where big munitions industries have been established. That is an aspect of our war effort which the Government cannot ignore, and I urge that a policy of decentralization be adopted. Our activities should not be confined to Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide to the detriment of Queensland and the country districts generally. This chamber is supposed to represent State interests, and it is our duty to direct attention to the effect which the war effort is having upon rural districts and country people generally. Because of the heavy expenditure in the capital cities, the big firms and retail business houses are making excessive profits. I look to the Government to take every penny of those excess profits, because Australia cannot afford to allow any section to make money out of the war. Persons engaged in the primary industries have had the prices of their products pegged, and, in many cases, they are unable to find markets for their commodities. The wool-growers should receive a somewhat better price for their product, and the price of sugar should also be higher than it is. Honorable senators opposite smile, but some men are walking off their sugar-cane farms in Queensland because they are unable to make a living there. 
SenatorFoll. - Their costs of production have increased out of sight. 
Their production costs have not increased a great deal. Wages have increased, but that is due entirely to the increased cost of living. The sugar industry does not greatly cavil at the cost of wages. 
The honorable senator suggests that the growers are not concerned about the high costs of production, but I advise him to visit Queensland and obtain first-hand information about the primary industries of that State, where many of the producers can market only about one-half the quantity of the goods they produce. At present many thousands of men and women are engaged in the production of munitions, and, if we neglect the primary industries, we shall find the post-war rehabilitation of industry generally much more difficult than it would be if we fostered our primary industries. 
I plead for greater consideration of the claims of Queensland with regard to war expenditure. Air training schools could be established throughout that State. Large supplies of coal and timber are available throughout Queensland, and I feel sure that the present Government will leave no stone unturned in exploring the possibilities in that direction. In reply to a question to-day it was suggested that any motor spirit containing more than 15 per cent, of power alcohol would be unsuitable for use in motor vehicles, but I believe that even a mixture containing 20 per cent, of power alcohol would be acceptable to those persons in the outback parts of Queensland who have been partially deprived of the use of their motor vehicles as the result of petrol rationing. Lavish expenditure by the military authorities in times like these is to be deprecated, and I believe that considerable economy could be effected. I do not suggest that Defence Department trucks are used in order to convey letters to post offices, but every effort should be made to eliminate extravagance and waste, particularly where petrol could thereby be conserved. The public is under the impression that a great deal of waste now occurs. I see no reason why the military authorities should not make full use of producer-gas units. The Government has not done a great deal to encourage the use of these units. Had it tackled the problem thoroughly, greater economy than has been exercised in the use of petrol could have been obtained. For instance, the manufacture of a standard type of producer-gas unit would have proved beneficial. 
Those engaged in primary industries throughout Australia are experiencing most difficult times and many of them are in financial trouble owing to the high interest bills that they are compelled to meet.For a limited period, at least, the interest rates of those engaged in primary industries should be reduced by one-half. That would enable a considerable proportion of those who cannot carry on their properties under present difficult conditions to retain them. The primary producers are carrying heavier burdens to-day than any other section of the community, and they are entitled to a reduction of interest rates. I do not consider that the establishment of a mortgage bank will cause the financial worries of the man on the land to vanish, but, if such a bank were wisely and sympathetically administered, always having as its goal the reduction of interest rates, I am sure that its operations would react to the advantage of the Commonwealth.  Senator McBride  apparently imagines that primary producers in Queensland are getting a high price for their sugar, but I point out that whilst in many industries increasing costs can be passed on, the primary producer is unable to do so. Having regard to the quantity of sugar that has to be exported from Australia, and the difficulties experienced by the cane-growers, I suggest that  Senator McBride  is entirely mistaken if he imagines that the growers receive too high a price for their product- 
Since I had the pleasure and privilege three or four years ago to administer to  Senator Courtice  the oath of allegiance on his assumption of his present position in this chamber, I wish that I could compliment him on the speech that he has just completed, but, frankly, I must say that he disappointed me. I should imagine, Mr.'  President,  that after having listened to so many speeches on the financial statement issued by the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  you have become somewhat weary. I have read the budget speech several times, and it contains some extraordinary statements.  Whilst  the ideas  expressed  may be sound, the Government has not suggested methods by which they can be satisfactorily implemented. The Treasurer stated at the beginning of his speech that - 
To-day we are in the throes of the most deadly and devastating war that has ever been waged between nations, and the skies are dark with clouds of evil portent. The Government has a full realization of the responsibility that rests upon it to carry out its duty to the country with determination, and all of the capacity at its command. 
The budget shows very little sign of  a realization of  the gravity of the situation. This  Labour  Government has apparently  failed to realize  that an all-in effort by the whole of the nation, and not by parts of it, is vital to our very existence. The budget is framed with deliberate calculation to appeal to the selfish, the unthinking and the ignorant; that is, to " the crowd ". At a time like this, to relieve 70 per cent, of income-earning electors from all but indirect taxes and to slug the remainder ruthlessly, does not appeal to me as an all-in war effort. This is purely a political bugget. It puts social security above national security, lt is true that, there are increases of indirect taxation, but. a higher direct tax on that 70 per cent, of the people would be a more honest way in which to obtain the money required. As I have said, the budget may be popular, but it is not equitable. A successful all-in war effort demands the diversion of production from the masses of the people, and not solely from those in receipt of the higher incomes. It is grossly unfair to rely on voluntary contributions from 70 per cent, of the people. In his budget, the Treasurer says that the Government will appeal for less spending on luxuries. Ever since the war began, there have been all sorts of appeals. The system has been overdone; the appeals  huw  become tiresome. Our very existence as a nation is at stake. The Treasurer says that there is to be a voluntary appeal for national saving, but I remind him that a national savings compaign was launched nearly two years ago. The Government will appeal to the masses of the electors, but, it will apply compulsion to the few who exercise only a comparatively few  vote3.  The economic foundation of th&gt;.' budget is unsound. The alleged wealthy sections of the community are to be called upon to pay for the war out of their capital and their savings. The budget appeals to the class consciousness of the masses, and is unworthy of a political party which boasts of its fairness to all Australians. I predict that it is foredoomed to failure. Notwithstanding all the advertising, the beating of drums, and Commonwealth-wide organization to raise enthusiasm for war savings by voluntary means, the campaign met with indifferent, success. 
I do. I was actively connected with that campaign for eighteen months in Victoria. I spent  my  Saturdays and Sundays on the job. 
Notwithstanding the poor response to that campaign for war savings, the Treasurer now asks the people for many millions of pound? more than have been raised in the past. He asks them to lend the money voluntarily. On this out-of-date system, the  success of the budget depends. The Government, like Micawber, is waiting for something to turn up. It has no chance of success, not even Buckley's. 
No. I am fating the facts. It is noticeable that the Treasurer and, I suppose, the caucus also, either ignored or were blind to the mad orgy of reckless spending which characterizes our national life to-day - horse racing, dog racing, lotteries, pictureshows, dancing, and the purchase of finery. The Treasurer implores these " wasters " in the community, most of whom he has exempted from income tax, to "co-operate willingly in a voluntary reduction of consumption and voluntarily to lend the amount so saved to the Government ". Why ask them ? Why not take from them? Why not compel them to save? I believe in compulsion; the voluntary system only means that the willing few carry the burden which should be shared by the unwilling many. The Treasurer's budget statement is excellent in parts, but throughout it there is a reiteration of theGovernment's dependence on the worn-out voluntary system. We hear a good deal about an all-in war effort, but we must dobetter than the Government proposes. This budget will not sufficeus in our dire need. The voluntary system is dead, and only awaits burial by compulsion, which is the only just, and indeed the only honest way. Labour appeals to the electors to give voluntarily what the Government has a right to take. This country is in the direst peril it has known in its one hundred and fifty years of existence. It is not right that a few should have to bear the whole burden. TheFadden Government was superseded because, among other reasons, it proposed to introduce a system of compulsory war loans. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  said that he objected to that system because it introduced an element of compulsion into the Australian life. The honorable gentleman conveniently forgot the other elements of compulsion in our national life - compulsory unionism, compulsory education, compulsory voting, compulsory taxation, and so on. 
Our democracy could not continue without some forms of compulsion. 
There has been a lot of loose talk in this chamber about bank credit and the control of banks and companies. We have repeatedly heard the parrot cry " Look at their profits ". Such cries are laughable when we reflect on the fact that those profits are distributed among large numbers of shareholders. 
There may be a few poor widows among the shareholders, but the point is that these vast accumulations of profits of which some honorable senators speak arc shared by all sorts and conditions of men and women. Honorable senators opposite speak as if the vaults or strong rooms of the various financial institutions of this country contain hundreds of millions of pounds. That is a fallacy. There are only three ways by which the war can be paid for : The Government may resort to heavy taxation, to compulsory loans, or to compulsory rationing. 
Then; have been numerous references to the subject of the pay of soldiers. As a soldier who has fought in two wars, I say that the deferred pay system is one of the greatest blessings that a soldier can have conferred upon him. I know that during my service in Mashonaland and Matabeleland under the South Africa Company many years ago, our pay was 5s. a day actual and 2s. a day deferred. A man who completed the full term of two years had about £70 to his credit when he received his discharge. That was a great asset to him in a black man's country. It is a deplorable thing for a white man to be penniless in such a place. Speaking for myself, I should have been in a bad way when I returned from the Great War after nearly five years' service had it not been for the deferred pay due to me. Although a man may have the best intentions in the world, he never saves much of his pay when on active service. But if a certain proportion of his pay were put away for him, it, like compulsory payments to a life assurance company, creates an asset whichhe will find useful later. Speaking as a soldier,I should prefer to know that a sum was accumulating to my credit rather than that the whole amount should be paid as active pay, for I know how easily money can disappear. 
Since it relies chiefly on the voluntary system, the budget is doomed to failure. There is some consolation in the knowledge that a supplementary budget will be introduced later. The present budget will not meet the situation that confronts this country. We are engaged in a fight for survival ; if we are to survive, we must abandon once and for all the undemocratic system which places the whole of the burden on the willing few. This country will have to be mobilized on a war footing. So far, the actual situation has not been brought home to the bulk of the Australian people, or, indeed, to its governments of public men. I have no misgivings about the task that confronts the Government. I wish it well. When the present Prime Minister accepted office, I offered to him my good wishes and my sincere sympathy also, knowing the terrific task that awaited him. I pray that he will have good health and strength to stand up to the task. The weight of his responsibilities alone will impose a great strain on his strength; but in running away from an all-in compulsory war effort the Government has fallen down on its job. 
I am not concerned with the previous Government. 
I shall support any government that has the best interests of Australia at heart. I did not agree with the policies of the last Government, the Government which preceded it or the Lyons Government. I am an out and out conscriptionist ; I believe in compulsion.  My  old friends, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  and the  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Brown),  know only too well that ten or twelve years ago and all through the intervening years I advocated compulsory military training and preparedness for war. I said from my place in this chamber as long ago as 1935 that the sands were running out and that, in a matter of a few years, we would be faced with total war. 
I would conscript everything. I believe in an all-in war effort. I believe in compulsion of every kind to wage the war to a successful conclusion. In these days we should take everything and say to every man, woman and child in the community, " This is your job ". 
I am not worried about interest on war loans, but I am concerned about the survival of this country, and this country will not survive unless we wake up from our slumbers. During the course of his speech  Senator Courtice  referred to the subject of man-power. 
I agree that we need an accurate and complete survey of the man-power of this country. A vast reservoir of man-power is at present, untouched and, indeed. is difficult to touch. Many able-bodied young men are sheltering in government departments, both Commonwealth and State. I speak with knowledge of the State Public Services of Victoria and Tasmania and of the Commonwealth Public Service. I know that some public servants who want to go away and do a man's job find it difficult to get leave because they are regarded as indispensable. The list of reserved occupations is an absolute disgrace. But what of the men who are overseas now? Is it possible to send to them the trained reinforcements they so , badly need when the training camps in this country are practically empty and the daily number of enlistments is down to a pathetic little dribble? The whole position of recruiting in Australia for the Australian Imperial Force since May of this year has been deplorable. Letters that have come to me from kinsmen who have been through the campaigns of Greece and Crete .and have fought in the gallant defence of Tobruk, reveal that they have had a grim time. In a letter which I received only last Friday a young man writing to me from abroad said, "We do not care a tinker's curse what you politicians do in Australia; we are not interested in you. We have a job to do and we shall do it; but, by God, we can do with some trained reinforcements since the withdrawal from Greece. We are a vanishing race ". In 1918 we were in a similar position on the western front in France. The whole of the five infantry divisions of the Australian Imperial Force were then wasting away through lack of reinforcements, and in order to meet the difficulty created by the lack of reinforcements no fewer than eleven battalions, one from each of the eleven brigades, had to be smashed up and their members utilized to build up the strength of the three remaining battalions in each brigade. Although the members of the Australian Imperial Force abroad were dying in their tens of thousands, many of their fellow-countrymen in Australia gave them no thought. I am afraid that history may repeat itself. It will be impossible to secure a sufficient number of recruits for the present Australian Imperial Force if, as has happened during the last two years, able-bodied young men are paid such high wages that they are induced to remain in Australia. When the Allies had their backs to the wall in 1918, when the success of their arms looked hopeless, when the Hun had been able to release 142 divisions from the eastern front following the collapse of Russia, what was happening in Australia? Figures compiled by the late Professor Ernest Scott and published in a section of the  Official History of Australia in the War of 1914-18  disprove the honorable senator's statement. It is what happened in Australia at that time that causes me to doubt the efficiency of the policy of the present Government and its ability to stand up to its obligations. In 1918, at a time when we had our backs to the wall, the Brisbane Labour Council, on the 16th May, adopted the following resolution unanimously : - 
That we declare our sincere belief that any member of the Labour movement in this State, whether attached to the parliamentary, political or industrial wing of the movement, who appears upon a recruiting platform, or in anyway does any other act involving any further participation in the war by Australia, fails to correctly interpret the views of the workers upon this question and displays lamentable ignorance of the  fundamental  principles of tho working-class movement. 
But worse was to follow. In June of the same year, the Triennial Interstate Conference of the Australian Labour party, the "peace at any price " conference, was held at Perth. It was held during the week commencing the 17th June, 1918, when our overworked and numerically weak battalions had to carry on. My own unit at that time averaged about 400 bayonets; its normal strength was 1,080. That was common to all battalions. The Perth conference was attended by the following delegates : - 
New South Wales- T. D. Mutch, M.L.A.; J. M. Power; J. H. Catts, M.P.; A. Rae; A. C. Willis; and G. Sutherland. 
Victoria -  Senator John  Barnes; E. J. Holloway; A. Stewart; J. H. Scullin; M. Blackburn; and  Mr. Bennett. 
Queensland - T. J. Ryan (Premier) ; J. A. Fihelly; W. McCormack; C. Collins, M.L.A.; L. McDonald, M.L.C.; and  Senator Ferricks. 
South Australia - T. W. Grealey; N. J. O. Makin; and S. R. Whitford. 
Western Australia - P. L. O'Loghlin, M.L.A. ; W. D. Johnson; D. Cameron; C. Callanan: F. A. Baglin; and W. Roche. 
Tasmania -  Senator J.  J. Long;  Senator D.  0'Keefe; W. E. Shoobridge; John Curtin; and A. McCallum. 
The proceedings were held in secret. No representatives of newspapers were allowed to be present, and publication of the resolutions passed was postponed for several days. Boiled down, the main resolution which appeared in the  West Australian  of the 21st June, 1918, meant peace at any price. The resolution published in the  West Australian  read - 
We arc of opinion that a complete military victory by the Allies over the Central Powers, if possible, can only be accomplished by thu further sacrifice of millions of human lives. 
It was urged that negotiations be immediately initiated for the holding of an international conference for the purpose of arranging equitable terms of peace. The resolution was adopted unanimously. 
Everything. The Labour party would invite the Hun, who was then on top, to attend an international conference at which the terms of peace could be decided. At that time, we had our backs to the wall; our men were staying in the front line for three or four weeks on end until they were so exhausted physically that they looked' like scarecrows. Although their overworked and exhausted bodies tortured them, their indomitable spirit remained unbroken. 
I mention the experiences of the last war because I am afraid that history may repeat itself and that once again there may be talk of the holding of an international conference to discuss the terms of peace. The resolution passed at the " peace at any price " conference in Perth was diametrically opposed to all that Labour had said when war broke out in 1914. At that time Labour's avowed policy was to see the war through to the bitter end, even to the last man and the last shilling. How can I have any confidence in our present war effort when I read of the things that happened on that, occasion when we were up against it? I pray God that history will not repeat itself on this occasion. The provision of reinforcements for the Australian Imperial Force is being avoided. I do not know the present cost of getting a recruit; but when I retired from my job as  Deputy  Director of Recruiting in June last, it was very high, and the results were very meagre. What will happen now if we cannot get reinforcements by the voluntary system? What is the Government going to do about the matter? Will it let those fellows face the same old bitterness and the same task that we did ? Is it going to turn them down? I hope not. It is not a matter of asking for men. The Government ought to take them. I know quite a lot of things which honorable senators opposite do not know regarding this subject. They have no background when it comes to military matters. But there are some things which shake a man. On the 29th November, 1939, after the outbreak of war, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin),  when he was Leader of the Opposition, proposed the following motion in the House of Representatives : - 
That this House is of the opinion that Australian man-power is required for the defence of the Co in mon weal th and is opposed to the despatch of expeditionary forces. 
It may be an opinion again; and it may be that our fellows overseas can stop there without reinforcement, help or encouragement. One finds further illuminating records in  Hansard.  The Leader of the Senate declared that he believed in negotiation, reasonable discussion, conferences, and pious resolutions of the kind that I have just read. When I read the resolution passed at the Perth Conference he asked what was wrong with it. I repeat that everything is wrong with it. On the 1st December, 1939, he declared in this chamber - 
I would not negotiate with that scoundrel Churchill. I regard  Mr. Churchill  as a mad dog let loose for the purpose of spreading hatred where previously none existed. 
Speaking in the House of Representatives, the present Minister for Social Services  (Mr. Holloway)  said - l' shall oppose even to the point of stretching thi- law to breaking point any proposal to send Australians to fight on foreign battlefields. 
The honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan)  declared - 
I declare emphatically against any expeditionary force proceeding overseas to wage war in Europe. 
The honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Blackburn)  said - 
If the Australian Labour party must choose between supporting the raising of forces for overseas service and an immediate negotiated' peace, I know which I would choose. 
Usually when one talks about negotiating a peace, the other fellow is prepared to negotiate and talk with you. But faced with what we are faced with to-day, and knowing what we do, besides remembering the things we have read - not in the press, but in the writings of Hitler, Ludendorf, Goering and others - what hope would we have of making a satisfactory negotiated peace? This young nation can get through this business in one way only, and that is by fighting. Even since the outbreak of war, the press generally throughout the Empire has fed us on pap. First, we were told that Poland had the most wonderful army in the world, and would put up effective resistance. So it has gone on right through  the piece. Prance, we were told, had the most magnificent army, which was perfect, down to the last tank. Always, somebody else is going to save us. Then the German went for the Russian bear; and he is still at him. People remark to rae how well the Russians are doing. They are well done by Fritz. Notwithstanding  Senator Courtice's  notion that we should send wheat to the Russians so that they will fight our battle, while we keep our own young men at home, Russia will not save us. We must save ourselves. When Russia is crumpled up, the story will be that the United States of America will save us. No one can fight: the battle for Australia but Australia itself. 
Anywhere in the world. If the honorable senator will read volume 9 of the  Official History of Australia in the War of 1914-18  he will learn that the Royal Australian Navy fought in the seven seas of the world. That is where we must fight to-day instead of sitting round our funk hole like frightened rabbits ready to scurry into our burrow when the ferret comes at us. We must stand up and fight the enemy. After the experiences I have mentioned, how oan one have any confidence at all in the poor, worn out and unjust system of voluntaryism? We need only plead that when our country is in dire peril it is our right and duty to take money, labour and men. The terrible pity of it is that our young Australian manhood since 1929 has not been trained in arms. Our men have not been taught the calling into which they must now be pushed and hurried away untrained. Armies cannot be made by stamping a foot; they cannot be organized and trained by any old method. Honorable senators who have been in this chamber since 1930-31 onwards know that this is one subject on which I can say, perhaps, that I have been consistent. It is one reason why I was not held in favour by any of the governments of the past. I advocated a policy which they did not have the courage to implement. Those are the things that we must tackle, particularly the problem of exemptions. That problem is evaded in State and Commonwealth departments. 
I know that in this matter the Government will be up against the heads of departments. The same opposition will be advanced in banks. The plea is made that men are indispensable, although they are doing work which older men, or women, could do. 
According to  Senator Courtice,  the establishment of a mortgage bank will save this country. I do not like the idea of mortgages. I laboured under one for more years than I care to remember, and when I freed myself from it I made up my mind that only very dire circumstances indeed would compel me to enter into another. The idea behind a mortgage bank is all right; but many other problems require more urgent attention. A mortgage bank will not help our distressed primary producers out of their troubles. In fact, it may in some instances aggravate their troubles. At all events, many other more urgent matters should first be attended to. One of the greatest disadvantages under which we labour - and I do not know whether we shall live to see it overcome - is that, unlike New Zealand, we have seven parliaments whereas our sister dominion has only one parliament. The existence of so many parliaments in this country is one of the greatest hindrances to our war effort. I know, of course, that we cannot alter the position at present, but it is the cause of much waste of time, money and energy. 
I do not suppose that any honorable senator will dispute the fact that reinforcements for the Australian Imperial Force are vitally necessary. I take it that all of us are agreed upon that point. To-day, however, those reinforcements are not being obtained. I again ask what the Government is doing about the matter. I know that the immediate answer which I shall receive to that question from the Leader of the Senate is that it is a matter of Government policy. That is true; but it is a matter which enters into my mind every day and every night and it worries me. It is a matter for the nation; and it is up to Australians to see that our men overseas are not let down. We should not ask for recruits ; we should take them. 
 Honorable senators  opposite have endeavoured to discredit the budget, and, had we been in opposition possibly we would have acted similarly. This budget is similar to that introduced by the Fadden Government, with some improvements, notably that prominence has been given to the need for a recognition of the principle of equality of sacrifice. Why should the burden of providing revenue to carry on Australia's war effort be borne unduly by those in receipt of small incomes? Any honorable senator who has lived on the basic wage knows the hardship imposed by a reduction by 2s. or 3s. of his weekly income. I know what it means, because I have had the experience of living on the basic wage. I direct the attention of honorable senators to the following report which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of the 30th October last : - 
Other opinions expressed in various newspapers are similar. The report continues - 
It is part payment for our national security, and for the equipment and maintenance of those who are risking and giving their lives in our defence. 
When anything of importance occurs in this chamber or in the House of Representatives, reference is usually made to it in the leading articles of the principal Australian newspapers. I remind honorable senators that on the morning after the presentation of this Government's budget to Parliament, it was favorably commented upon by Australia's leading newspapers. 
Every man who professes to take an interest in important current events should read them. The article in the Melbourne  Age  continued - 
In any detailed assessment of the budget proposals, these basic factors must be kept in sight. Compared with the September budget, the Government is increasing the war and civil expenditure to the extent of £5.059,000. 
With the aid of economies to be effected, the increased revenue is to be disbursed in increasing old-age and invalid pensions, increasing and extending service pensions, increasing active soldiers' pay and the allowances to wives and children and other dependants of members of the Forces. And who will say, even in time of war, that the nation's duty, not generosity, to such groups should be neglected. 
Those words should prove that the budget is based on sound principles. I believe that although honorable senators opposite have criticized the budget, they know that it meet3 the requirements of a majority of the Australian people. In recent months I have had an opportunity to visit various munitions establishments, aircraft factories and other similar undertakings, and what I saw is a credit to Australia, to those who established them, and to the workers. The development of industries engaged on war work has been remarkable, but many people are not aware of the excellent work that is being performed. They hear that thousands of employees are engaged in certain factories, but they do not know the extent of their output. Lack of steel is hampering production in our defence industries to-day, yet we have thousands and thousands of tons of iron ore lying in undeveloped deposits at such places as Yampi Sound in Western Australia. I am not criticizing our existing steel industries; what we require is additional plants. Steel is the basis of our heavy industries and in this category I include shipbuilding. There is too much wrangling. While Hitler's submarines are busy torpedoing our ships our iron ore deposits at Yampi Sound are lying idle. Those deposits and others should be developed, and vested interests which are at present hampering development should be ignored. It should be a case of " all in to win ". Water power could be utilized to develop the steel industry in Western Australia. A hydro-electric scheme could be established at a very small cost, or the power generated by the rise and fall of the tide, which in the vicinity of Yampi is from 28 feet to 38 feet, could be harnessed. Steel is produced in Norway and Sweden with the assistance of such power. Iron ore is the raw material, which, when converted, is used in the construction of ships, armaments and in many other ways. 
I am pleased to hear from  Senator Collett,  who was  chairman  of the Western Australian War Industries Committee, that the first goal has been kicked. In view of the honorable senator's statement, I shall refrain from making further reference to the subject at this juncture. 
Western Australia suffered rather a severe setback as a result of the imposition of the gold tax. I suggest that the gold-mining industry be reviewed, with the object of removing that unfair levy. It is quite reasonable to tax profits, but it is not fair to tax the value of the product. Production costs were not considered when the tax was imposed. The production of gold  is  vital to our war effort. During the last war miners were encouraged to produce as much gold as possible ; but to-day the gold tax is crippling the industry, and many small shows have been unable to carry on. 
An increased tax on incomes exceeding £1,500 a year is not unreasonable, as persons in receipt of incomes above that amount are quite able to pay a higher rate. A person who has ample means should do his best to assist his country. What would be the use of money should we lose the war? 
But not all of them. The people of Australia generally have done magnificently in our war effort. 
Yes, and this Government is rendering a splendid service to the people. 
We are all proud of those who have enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force, the Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. Australia has made a remarkable effort in that respect; but nothing has been said of the splendid service being rendered by the nurses who are serving overseas. 
I shall deal with that point later. At present there are about 1,000 Australian nurses overseas who deserve just as much praise and support as those engaged' in our fighting services. Nurses are performing valuable work under most difficult conditions, and should be given credit for the selfsacrificing service that they are rendering to their country. I believe that one volunteer is as good as twenty conscripts. In the Melbourne  Herald  of the 22nd November, the following paragraph appeared :  - 
Individually, the Ministers vary in ability, and some are disappointing, but collectively it is a hard working, loyal cabinet that is giving a crisis-weary Australia the first real approach to stability of government it has known since the early days of the Menzies' ministry. 
If given an opportunity, this Government will serve Australia well. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.1 to 8 p.m. 

I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to amend the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act, mainly in three directions, namely :  - 
To ensure that the maximum rates of service pension for members of the forces and other provisions regarding service pensions conform to the amendments made with respect to invalid and old-age pensions. 
To provide that veterans of the South African war be admitted to the benefits of service pensions, and for medical treatment to be given to those suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. 
To give statutory authority for certain payments sanctioned by previous governments. 
The more important of these are, of course, the first and second. Both relate to service pensions, the new type of pension instituted in January, 1936. Service pensions are really a form of invalid or old-age pensions for members of the forces, and are granted on the grounds of age, of being permanently unemployable, or because the ex-soldier is suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. The present rate for members eligible on the ground of age, and for unmarried members eligible on either of the grounds, is £11s. a week. It is provided in clause 3 of the bill that the rate shall be increased by 2s. 6d. a week to give a maximum rate of £1 3s. 6d. a week. In the bill, the rates are expressed in fortnightly amounts. Provision is made in it for the granting of pensions to both husband and wife where a member is eligible on the ground that he is permanently unemployable or is suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. In such cases the aggregate maximum rate is £1 16s. a week, being 18s. for the member and18s. for his wife. Clause 4 provides that the rate for the member shall be increased by 5s. a week to a maximum rate of £1 3s. a week. The present rate of 18s. a week for the wife of a service pensioner is already equal to that payable to the wife of a member receiving a war pension for total incapacity attributable to war service. Clause 5 omits sub-section 2 of section 45 ah of the act and provides a common basis as regards deduction from  pension on account of accumulated property. Under the section as amended, deduction from pension will apply only in respect of property valued in excess of £50. The existing exemption in respect of an individual pensioner is £50, but  in  the case of a husband and wife, it  is  £25 for each. In future, the exemption will be £50 for each.Clause 6 effects three amendments in respect of the section of the act relating to the rate of  pension  payable whilst a service pensioner is in an institution. The first amendment makes it, clear that the provision applies only where the pensioner is maintained at the public expense, and removes the necessity for reducing the pension to the lower rate where the pensioner enters, say, a private hospital or an intermediate hospital. In future, when a service pensioner is admitted to  a public  institution, reduction of pension will not operate until the twenty-ninth day after admission. This will place service pensions on the same footing as invalid  or  old-age pensions  where the  pensioner is admitted to hospital. It is desirable that the hospital rate of pension should agree in respect of both service pension and invalidor oldage pension. At the inception of service pensions, they did agree, but, through certain differences  in  the legislation affecting  the  two departments, and in other provisions which the departments had necessarily to observe, the institutional rate for service pensioners has, since September, 1936, been higher than that paid to invalid pensioners. For most of the period,  the  advantage was1s. a week. The present rates are : Invalid or old-age pension, 6s. 9d.  a  week; service pension, 7s.6d.  a  week. The proposed new rate  for invalid pension is  7s. 9d. a week and the amendment will bring the rates into uniformity and keep them so for the future.  Clause  7 inserts a new section  in  the  act,  whereby the provisions of service pensions are extended to veterans  of  the South AfricanWar. This had been decided upon by the previous Government. The present Government concurs in the decision, and is pleased to  give  effect  to  it. In this connexion, credit is due to Senators Brand, Collett - who was the former Minister for Repatriation - Ashley, Sampson and Cooper, and to  the  honorable members for Darwin  (Sir 
George Bell), Brisbane  (Mr. Lawson),  Bourke  (Mr. Blackburn),  Melbourne  (Mr. Calwell).,  Moreton  (Mr. Francis),  Hume  (Mr. Collins)  and Lang  (Mr. Mulcahy),  who have been staunch advocates of the claims of these veterans. The extension will operate from the 1st November, 1941, and will, no doubt, be the means of affording comfort to those veterans in need of such a pension. It will be noted that Australians who served in South Africa with the forces of Great Britain or of a dominion other than Australia are also eligible. Medical treatment for members of the forces suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, even though not due to the member's service, is a concomitant of the service pension scheme, and this benefit will be available for the veterans who should beso unfortunate as to be afflicted with that disability. The benefit will be available irrespective of whether or not the member is to receive a service pension. The provision is covered by one of the amendments to section 60 of the act, affected by clause8 of the bill. The other amendments to section 60 do not confer  any  new benefit; they are designed merely to give statutory authority for concessions already in force. They may be regarded as machinery amendments to facilitate administrative accounting for the expenditure. 
I commendthe Government for the introduction of this bill. Although the Minister readily admits that the amendments proposed in the measure were under consideration by the previous Government before it relinquished office, I am grateful to this Government for having facilitated their introduction. The granting of the service pension and the raising of the rate to 23s. 6d. a week places the ex-soldier who is unable to work on a very favorable footing as compared with other members of the community in distress. The service pensioner's wife is also in a favorable position in that she receives a pension of 18s. a week merely because she is the wife of an ex-soldier and not because she herself is an invalid. Provision for the payment of service pensions to veterans of the South African War should have been made in the original legislation. 
During the South African War in 1899-1902 men enlisted in the armed forces to serve the Empire with just as much enthusiasm as they display to-day, and they rendered first-class service to their country. Over 16,000 Australians went to South Africa, and whilst they did not have to face the rigours of modern war they had other disabilities to overcome, such as disease, undernourishment and fatigue, which are not encountered to the same degree in these more enlightened days. In fact, I might describe the South African campaign in the words used by the present Leader of the Senate as " something in the nature of a gentleman's war ". It is not yet too late to pay this little tribute to those who served their country on that occasion. Not many of them are still alive, though we are proud to include among their number no fewer than four members of the Senate. Every consideration should be displayed towards these men. This measure will be very much appreciated by them, and I trust that it will receive the unanimous support of honorable senators. In his second-reading speech the Minister departed from customary practice when he mentioned the names of those who are said to have had some part in the introduction of this measure. I am not sure whether that is a compliment or whether there is something behind it. 
I accept the Minister's assurance. I may be permitted to mention, however, that his own name is omitted from the list of those to whom he has paid this tribute, yet, as every honorable senator knows, he has for a long time advocated consideration of the claims of the South African War veterans for service pensions. The Opposition, I feel sure, will support the bill. 
.- The Fadden Government is to be commended for approving the principle of a service pension for burnt-out South African war veterans. The Curtin Government also is to be congratulated upon the action it is now taking to implement that decision. The number likely to qualify for this pension is estimated to be under 300. The majority are about 60 years of age and are thus not old enough to qualify for the old-age pension, whilst they hardly comply with the conditions required for an invalid pension. Time and again with other honorable senators, I have pleaded for a pension for these old veterans, who cannot earn a constant livelihood, because of advanced age, or mental and physical incapacity due to the rigours of active service. Most of them have been living on charity and whatever help their more fortunate comrades can give them. The pension will enable them to obtain some of the necessaries of life in the eventide of their days, and will create the right psychological effect on those young men who are being asked to don the King's uniform in the present world struggle. These old veterans realize that no obligation rests upon the nation to give them this assistance and, therefore, they feel very grateful for it. On the other hand, the Commonwealth owes them something for the part they played in that campaign 40 years ago, a campaign which, ending with magnanimous peace terms, created a new dominion within the British Commonwealth of Nations. It forestalled any attempt by Germany, through the two Boer republics, to extend its influence in the South as it had already done in West and East Africa. Despite the diehard Afrikander anti-British elements, the campaign brought peace between the two white races and peace between them and the coloured population numbering millions. It strengthened the Empire's strategical position during the Great War. Had the territories in South Africa not been unified under the British Crown, Germany would have taken advantage of racial discord, an advantage which, in the present war, as in the Great War, would have caused Australia serious concern. 
In this chamber are four South African war veterans, namely,  Senator Ashley, Senator Cameron, Senator Sampson  and myself. Though the kind of warfare in South Africa was different from that of the Great War, it was just as exacting. We remember the ceaseless night marches month after month, the constant vigilance night and day, the courage and initiative necessary to beat our opponents under guerilla warfare conditions, of which they were recognized as the world's greatest exponents. We know that many of our comrades carried on, though enteric germs within their system weakened their constitution. This service pension will assist those men in their declining years. 
On behalf of the South African veterans of Australia, I thank the former Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Collett)  for his sustained interest in this matter. He convinced his colleagues in Cabinet of the justice of the claims. This bill will place South African  war  service pensioners on the same footing as service pensioners of the Great War. Four years ago a similar measure was passed by the New Zealand Parliament. 
 Sub-clause 1 of clause 7 requires an applicant for a South African war service pension to prove that he was resident in Australia within a period of twelve months immediately prior to his enlistment. I bring to the notice of the Minister  (Senator Cameron)  the case of a Tasmanian, who fought with the Australians in the South African war, but, owing to the conditions under which he enlisted, will not qualify for a service pension. He spent three years in South America and on his return journey he stopped at Capetown and enlisted for service with the Australian troops. At the conclusion of hostilities, he returned to his native State, Tasmania. Because he was not a resident  in  Australia within the period of twelve months immediately prior to his enlistment, he is not entitled under this measure to a service pension as a South African war veteran. Very probably there may be a number of similar cases. 
Yes ;  he  has written to me in regard to the matter, and when I passed his letter on to the Minister, my attention was drawn to this provision. 
 The honorable senator is not in order at this stage in dealing specifically with a clause of the bill. He must reserve specific references to individual clauses until the committee stage. On the second reading, he may refer to the provisions of the bill generally. 
, - On behalf of many old Tasmanian South African war veterans I congratulate the Government on the introduction of the bill, thus giving very prompt effect to the intentions of the previous Government. The measure will be welcomed by many South African war veterans resident in Tasmania, who have fallen upon evil times, and are now in need. On their behalf I thank the Government for introducing the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Service pensions for South African veterans). 
 Perhaps the Minister  (Senator Cameron)  would clarify a point which arises under this clause. I have been asked why a distinction is made between South African war veterans and veterans of the last war in respect of medical treatment. The Minister might explain the responsibility of the Imperial Government in respect of injuries  received  in the South African war. 
The Imperial Government is responsible for the payment of pension in respect of wounds, or sickness, sustained as the result of service in the South African war. 
 I have already cited a  case  which arises in connexion with this provision. I ask whether some provision can be made to cover such cases, particularly if there should be a considerable number of them. 
The provision referred to by  Senator Herbert  Hays conforms to the principle  of  pensions payable in respect  ofthewarof1914-18andthepresentwar. 
Members of the forces of Great Britain and other dominions are admitted to benefit under the Australian Soldiers Repatriation Act. provided that they can establish that they were resident in Australia for twelve months prior to enlistment. It would appear that, at the moment, the Government cannot go fur ther. 
.- I should like the Minister for Aircraft Production to clear up the point raised by  Senator Collett  with respect to South African war veterans. I took this matter up with  Senator Collett  some time ago because it appeared to me that ex-soldiers . of the South African War were entitled to medical attention only when suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis.  Senator Collett  explained that pensions for war injury and sickness were paid by the Imperial Government, but not pensions for tuberculosis, which had developed since the war. I shall be satisfied if the Minister will assure me that that is the position. It seems to me to savour of cheese-paring to provide that when ill veterans of the South African war may benefit only when suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
.-I move - 
That the bill be now read a third time. 
In answer to the point raised by  Senator Leckie  on clause 7, I should like to state that the ordinary service pension is payable in respect of disabilities due to war service. Medical treatment is afforded only in respect of pulmonary tuberculosis. 
.- That is a very unsatisfactory answer to the point I raised. The Minister has only repeated what is in the bill. I want to know why these South 
African Warveteransareentitled to medical treatment for only one complaint, namely, pulmonary tuberculosis. Apparently, if one of these ex-soldiers has certain war injuries, which, although not apparent at the time of his discharge, result in illness at a later stage, is he not entitled to medical attention ? I am afraid that the Minister misled me when he said that he would answer later the point I raised. In the meantime the bill has reached the third-reading stage, and the Minister has only repeated what he said in his second-reading speech. Unless 1 receive a satisfactory answer I shall not feel disposed to assist the passage of the measure without protest. I do not suggest that the Minister deliberately- misled me in order to get the bill through, but that was the effect of his action. I ask again if South African war veterans are entitled to treatment for complaints other than pulmonary tuberculosis, and, if not, why not? 
.- I take it that the object of providing only for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis is to bring the practice in respect of South African War veterans into line with that applying to ex-soldiers of the Great War. Should that principle be departed from difficulties would arise. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now rend a second time. 
I submit this bill with the utmost confidence, believing that, having regard to this nation's present circumstances, true Australians will accept it as just in its incidence, and essential in its purpose, namely, the prosecution of the war. Upon the result of this conflict depends the future of the individual, and that is our greatest consideration. I say that because, taken collectively, individuals constitute this great Australian democracy. In this extremity, with which we are now faced, the consideration of personal gain must pass into the background where it rightly belongs. Personal interests, and those of companies and enterprises which have flourished under a charter which the community alone could give, and which the community now simply demands that they should defend, must be sunk in the face of grave danger to the community. Surely it would not be too much to ask the prosperous companies of Australia to give their all to preserve the conditions under which they have flourished for so many years. Had the Government asked the shareholders in companies to forgo all their dividends to protect the grand heritage that they are building up, I am sure that the patriots among them would not have hesitated. In times of peace companies are often vehicles upon which subscribers are carried to permanent comfort and frequently to wealth ; in this emergency they must realize that the continuance of that assured source of income depends upon the sacrifices they are prepared to make now. We have been told so frequently that this is an all-in war effort, that perhaps the significance of the term now fails to make an impression; but honorable senators who served in the last Ministry can well appreciate the meaning of " a total war effort ". In fact, many companies owe added prosperity to the increasing self-sufficiency of the Commonwealth due to the extra responsibility that has been placed upon us by the war. Indeed, these companies have a double obligation to Australia, and I feel sure that, in its hour of need, they will not fail this great country. The burden is heavy, but it has to be borne. In the House of Representatives the Government accepted an amendment which lifts the statutory percentage of profit from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent. Minute as that may seem, it has already involved a difference of £800,000 in the estimated revenue from this source. I hope that honorable senators will approach this problem as big Australians, realizing at all times that every minute lost and every penny lost, inevitably must detract from our chance of ultimate victory. When we were in Opposition there was never a voice raised on the Labour side of the chamber against what we considered to be legislation directed towards the proper and effective prosecution of the war. Now that the responsibility has fallen on the new Ministry I sincerely trust that we shall enjoy similar co-operation. 
This bill is designed to amend the Wartime ('Company) Tax Assessment Act in certain particulars; mainly to give effect to the Government's proposal to reduce the statutory percentage of profit from 8 per cent to 5 per cent. It is desirable that a. brief reference be made to the manner in which the War-time (Company) Tax operates under the present law. The tax applies only to public companies. A public company, the taxable profit of which does not exceed 8 per cent, of the capital employed, is exempt from the tax. The tax is graduated, and the rate increases according to the percentage which the taxable profit in excess of 8 per cent bears to the capital employed. The rate commences at 4 per cent, on the first 1 per cent, of the capital employed by which the taxable profit exceeds 8 per cent., and increases by steps of 4 per cent, for each additional 1 per cent., until the maximum rate of 60 per cent, is reached at the point where the taxable profit is more than 22 per cent, of the capital employed. The Government has very carefully surveyed this field of taxation, and has considered different methods of taxing profits of companies, not only from the point of view of increased revenue, but also with the object of preventing profiteering during war-time. As a result of this survey, it is considered that many companies which are not liable for War-time (Company) Tax because their profits are less than S per cent, of the capital employed, or which pay a negligible amount of tax, should be required to make a greater contribution to the war effort. It is felt, also, that those companies, whose taxable profits represent a high percentage on the capital employed, are not making that sacrifice which the present world situation demands. The reduction of the statutory percentage from 8 per cent, to 5 per cent. does not represent a departure from the principle of ability to pay. As previously mentioned, the tax is graduated, and, therefore, falls less severely on those companies whose profits represent a comparatively smaller return on the capital invested, than on those companies which enjoy a higher percentage return on capital. This tax, unlike the war-profits tax which operated during the last war, does not apply only to companies whose war-time profits exceed those of pre-war years, but also affects companies which made high profits prior to the war and continue to make them during the war period. Consequent upon the reduction of the statutory percentage from 8 per cent, to 5 per cent, is the proposal to increase the amount allowed as the minimum capital employed, from £12,500 to £20,000. The object of providing for a minimum capital employed was to ensure a minimum percentage standard for companies with small capital, and for those companies which failed to furnish information to enable the capital employed to he ascertained. Thus a capital of £12,500 ensured a percentage standard of £1,000, i.e., 8 per cent, of £12,500. It is the desire of the Government to retain the principle of the minimum percentage standard of £1,000, and, in order to do this, it is necessary to increase the minimum capital employed to £20,000. 
Honorable senators are, no doubt, aware that the Board of Referees appointed under the War-time (Company) Tax Assessment Act is required to inquire into and report to the Minister, upon any claim referred to it  by  the commissioner, that some unavoidable condition, associated with a particular class of business, makes it just that a greater statutory percentage than that specified in section 20 of the act should be prescribed in respect of that class of business. If the board is satisfied that unavoidable conditions exist, it is required to make a recommendation as to the greater statutory percentage which it considers just. Where a greater statutory percentage is granted in accordance with the board's recommendation, such percentage is prescribed by regulation. 
The act does not contain any provision which, would enable the board to review  any claim which, it has inquired into and reported upon. The board has inquired into and reported upon several claims.  lt is  essential that these claims be reviewed. They were considered when the statutory percentage was 8 per cent., but it is probable that had the statutory percentage been 5 per cent., different conclusions would have been reached by the board. Provision is contained in the bill requiring the board to review those claims which have already been inquired into and reported upon, but any recommendation made as a result of the revision will not apply to assessments for the period during which the statutory percentage of 8 per cent, operated. 
The necessity has arisen to amend the definition of "income tax". In the present law " income tax " is defined as the income tax imposed' as such by any act. Income tax payable in respect of the taxable income as assessed for income tax purposes is allowed as a deduction in arriving at the taxable profit for war-time company tax purposes. It was not intended that income tax deducted from the taxable income should include super tax, because that tax is alternative to war-time company tax, and is deducted from the war-time company tax itself. However, the Taxation Board of Review recently held that super tax was an income tax imposed as such, and that a company was entitled to have the super tax deducted from the taxable income in arriving at the taxable profit, notwithstanding the provision in the law for deduction of the super tax from the war-time company tax assessed. The decision of the board would entitle a company to a deduction of an amount which, in effect, it does not pay, because the amount of war-time company tax payable is reduced by the amount of super tax assessed. It is important that the law he amended to prevent the double deduction of super tax. It is proposed to make the amendment retrospective, but it will not deprive a company, in whose favour the decision of the board was given, of the benefit of the decision. 
I commend the bill to honorable senators. Owing to the amendment made in the House of Representatives to increase the proposed statutory percentage of profit from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent., the revenue that the Government will derive under the budget has been reduced by £800,000. I regard that action as wrong. No Government derives pleasure from submitting taxation proposals, whether they provide for direct or indirect taxation. We all know that a state of emergency exists. Members of the Advisory War Council are well aware of the gravity of the position, and I repeat that it was distinctly wrong to reduce the revenue available to the Government. If the Senate does the right thing, it will realize that the revenue budgeted for is essential. Had the matter been left to this chamber I believe that the reduction of the proposed statutory percentage would not have been made. The shareholders in big companies are the people who have most to gain by the winning of the war, and the amendment of the Government's proposal is one of. the most distressing incidents that I have witnessed in this Parliament. To me it seems deplorable that in a time when the war position was never graver than it is now, the Government is to be handicapped by a loss of revenue to the amount of £800,000, because some people do not approve of this tax. In times of danger, heavy taxes must be imposed', unpopular as they may be. I trust that the bill will have a speedy passage through this chamber. 
.- It is interesting to hear the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  uttering words of censure regarding the action of the Government in the House of Representatives in accepting an amendment to this bill. A bill of which we knew nothing comes before us. and before members of the Opposition have expressed any opinion at all regarding it, the Minister upbraids them for depriving the Government of revenue. Surely it is a new departure in this chamber for the Minister in charge of a measure to censure his own leader, and the Ministry of which he is a member, because it has accepted an amendment moved by the Opposition in the House of Representatives. If the Government regarded it as vital that the amendment should not be made, it has a majority in the other branch of the legislature, and it could have stuck to its  guns. This measure was to have received a smooth passage through the Senate. The Opposition had not intended to oppose it, except in one small particular. We do not approve the method by which the revenue required is to be raised; we consider that it is a thoroughly bad bill, with many injustices and anomalies. There is a general feeling that those who drew up the measure had no clear conception as to how companies conduct their businesses. If the Opposition is assured that the only means that the Government could devise for obtaining the extra revenue required was that provided for in this bill, the passage of the measure will not be obstructed. 
Companies are aggregations of individuals, and the formation of companies has become necessary to enable capital to be obtained to carry on business economically, and in the best interests of the community. The days of the one-man company have almost gone. The capita] used by companies is provided by both large and small shareholders, and the great majority of them are fairly small shareholders. The present Government, in order to " sock " the " big man is obsessed with the idea that companies are all composed of rich men. Many people have invested their savings in companies in order to provide themselves with the means of livelihood in their declining years. Actually the bill provides that the small shareholders shall pay a portion of the wartime profits tax of the large shareholders. Being taxed at a rate in accordance with the profit of the company, the small shareholders pay more than they would be required to pay if the full dividend wore paid out to them; therefore the Government is " socking ", not the rich man, but the comparatively poor shareholder. A statutory amount of dividend has to be paid to preference shareholders before any ordinary dividends are paid, but under this bill a company must also pay tax on the difference between 5 per cent, and the 7 per cent, or 8 per cent, to which preference shareholders are entitled, and that amount must come out of the dividend of the ordinary shareholders. I am surprised that no provision has been made so that the preference shareholders would be called upon to give some assistance in that regard, but they are to be left untouched. The bill contains a number of anomalies the effect of which will be bad, in that they will prevent small and recently established companies from setting aside any considerable reserves. Large and well-established companies which have built up reserves will not be in so bad a position. When the war ie over these small companies, which will be hit hard by this legislation, may have no reserves at all and may even be forced out of existence, thereby increasing unemployment. 
Should this country be defeated in the present conflict there will be nothing left for anyone. Every man in the country, whether he possesses little or much, has everything at stake. 
The title of the bill is War-time (Company) Tax Bill 1941, and, therefore, I presume that it is a war-time measure, although there is no clause in it which restricts its operation to the period of wai-. In committee I propose to move an amendment to ensure that this legislation shall remain in operation only for the duration of the war and for six months after the end of the financial year in which tlie war terminates. 
I do not understand the interjection. There is nothing in this bill to ensure a profit of 5 pex cent, for any period. Indeed, the Government may at any time introduce another bill to restrict profits to 2 per cent., or even to 1 per cent. 
I merely want to be sure that this legislation will not continue indefinitely. If the Government intends that it shall remain on the statutebook after the war is over, the opposition to it will be stronger. Should it be found, say, six months after the war terminates that the money which it will provide is still wanted, the legislation could be re-enacted in the light of the necessities of the time. I appeal to the Minister in charge of the bill to move the suggested amendment himself, in which event honorable senators on this side, while nor necessarily refraining from criticism of certain-portions of the measure, will agree to give it a speedy passage. 
Should it be found at the expiration of the term of the measure, that it would be desirable to continue it for a little longer, a bill to that effect could be introduced. If the Minister will agree to my proposed amendment, the Opposition will not raise any strong objection to the passing of the bill. 
.- -I endorse what  Senator Leckie  has said in regard to certain remarks of the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator Keane).  Had the bill been introduced without such comments, a better atmosphere would have existed, in regard to it. In the Hoti.se of Representatives, the Opposition moved an amendment, and the Government accepted it, although in that chamber the Government has a clear majority of three. Apparently, Ministers in another place saw the justice of the amendment, and accepted it. It ill becomes the Minister in charge of the bill in this chamber to criticize his colleagues in another place. 
Yes. It was moved in the interests of justice. Have we reached such a stage that a man who takes .up a few shares in a company is committing a siu? 
There have been strong references to profiteers, but I point out that there are many companies in Australia which have never paid what could be called a "profiteer's dividend". T  draw  attention to the following paragraph in the opening speech of the Minister : - 
Had the Government asked the shareholders in companies to forgo all their dividends to protect the grand heritage that they are building up, I am sure that the patriots among them would not hesitate. 
Is there any particular reason why people who have exercised thrift, and have invested some of their savings in Australian companies, should be asked to forgo all of their dividends because there is a war on. when people in other walks of life are not asked to make a similar sacrifice? A few days ago,  Senator MeI;ride  pointed out that among the shareholders of such large companies as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited there are many people with incomes not greater than the basic wage. 
An examination of the list of shareholders of many large companies would reveal that many of them hold only a few hundred shares, which they have purchased out of their savings. The return from such shares, although small, is in many instances their only income. I have yet to loam that it is a sin against society to be thrifty, and to invest one's savings in a well organized and properly controlled Australian company. Honorable senators know that many Australian companies have done much for the development of our primary and secondary industries. It was unnecessary for the Minister in charge of the bill to " point the bone " at these people and say that had the Government asked them to forgo all of their dividends it would have been a reasonable request. 
There is no more reason why the Government should say that a thrifty person who has invested a few hundred pounds in a company should forgo his dividends because the country is at war than that an old-age pensioner should forgo his pension during the war. The Government would be acting wrongly if in its taxation measures it set out to attack only the thrifty section of the community. Yet that is what it is doing in bill after bill that comes before us. Successive governments have advocated thrift. Indeed, the present Prime Minister is asking the people to discontinue certain forms of expenditure in order that the money may bc invested in war loans and war savings certificates. The only purpose of the Opposition in the other House in moving the amendment was to see that justice was done to the thrifty section of the community. 
.-- I strongly resent the suggestion that members of the Opposition in the House of Representatives acted improperly in supporting an amendment to alter the  basis  of the war-time company tax. Such a suggestion comes ill from a member of the party which voted to throw the Fadden Government out of office because the party was opposed to the means by which that government sought to obtain revenue. Although members of the present Ministry objected to the taxation proposal of the previous Government, which was intended to bring in £25,000,000, they have the audacity to say that we should meekly accept a measure of this kind which we may believe to be unsound. The fact of the matter is that the bill, as it was introduced into the House of Representatives, was a very bad one. It was improved a little by tlie amendments made in the House of Representatives. If the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Leckie  be incorporated in the measure I shall support the second reading although I frankly confess that I shall do so with a great deal of misgiving. It is proper therefore that I should say that I regard the measure as thoroughly unsound. Some levity was created when  Senator Leckie  suggested that, in some instances, this bill would tax the poor to the benefit of the rich. That proposition is perfectly sound. Let  us have a look at it. This bill imposes a tax on companies and in that respect it is tlie kind of measure which is attractive to this Government because it does not propose to take money directly out of the pockets of the voter. 
That is so. The tax imposed on a company is  supposed  to be a little less painful, and because it is less painful it is regarded as less objectionable to those who cast votes. 
Not at all. My objection to the bill is that it is thoroughly inequitable. Let us consider the case of a woman whose sole income of £100 per annum is derived from dividends from a company. The Government proposes to tax that woman through the company in which she holds shares at the rates provided in this bill. 
-lt would be practically impossible to compute it. The difference would depend entirely on the nature of the company, its rate of profit, and the amount of tax it will be required to pay under this bill. For the purposes of my argument, however, the amount of the difference is entirely irrelevant. If the Government confined its taxation proposals to equitable methods, that is, if it imposed the tax on the individual taxpayer, under the present law the woman to whom I have referred would not pay any tax at all. But the Government is not courageous enough to tax such a woman directly ; that might affect her vote; and therefore it imposes the tax on the company. Out of money which would otherwise be available for dividends, it proposes to impose in some instances a very high rate of tax which must reduce the amount available for distribution by way of dividend, and to the same degree must reduce the amount which would be received by the woman to whom I have referred. 
The Leader of the Senate appears to have no sympathy for the poor widow. 
I have established my point that this tax will operate to reduce the incomes of people who would not otherwise be taxed. Let us look at the other side of the picture. How do the rich fare under this bill? Let us consider the position of a man whose dividends from a company amount to £5,000 or £10,000 per annum. If he receives the dividends into his hands without their being taxed on their way through the company, he will, under present rates of taxation, pay 18s. in the £1; but under the method proposed in this bill, the Government intends to tax the profit in the hands of the company. It does not, however, intend to impose a tax on that profit of 18s. in the £1; in most cases it will be from 5s. to 9s. in the £1. It is true that the dividend of such a taxpayer is reduced, but it is not reduced by the rate of tax that he would pay as an individual, namely, 18s. in the £1. If the Government allowed the whole of the profit earned by a company to pass to the shareholders untouched, they would pay tax on their dividends at the rate appropriate to their incomes; but if the profit is stopped in transit, and is taxed in the hands of the company before it reaches the taxpayer,, the wealthy shareholder gets some benefit. The arguments that I use against legislation of this kind are much the same as those I used several days ago when we were dealing with the revised Estimates and budget papers. Those forms of taxation which impose taxes on companies are intrinsically unsound. 
Yes. I am willing to face that position. 
When taxes were first imposed on companies the provision which was made for rebates operated to the advantage of the shareholder. However that provision was wiped out owing to the necessity for obtaining the maximum revenue with which to prosecute the war. Possibly that was an unfortunate step, but at any rate it did not operate in relation to rates of taxation anything like those which the Government now proposes to impose. It becomes a very different proposition when an ordinary tax of 3s. in the £1 is extracted from a company and in some cases a super tax and, in addition, a war-time profits tax which can reach very high levels indeed. It becomes of great importance to see that we do not create real injustices in this  community  by failing to follow the reasonable and equitable course of trying to tax everybody according to their ability to pay. 
Not at all. However plainly I speak, the honorable senator cannot understand me. 
I am a little puzzled by some figures that appeared in the budget speech when compared with other figures which have been supplied by officials of the Taxation Department. The Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  in his budget speech stated that the return from this tax at the old rate for the current financial year would amount to £1,000,000. That is quite contrary to sworn evidence given before the Joint Committee on Profits. If the Minister will look at the report of that committee, paragraph 42, he will see that it stated that war-time company tax, in its first year of operation, was estimated to yield £2,333,000, and that the return from super tax would amount to £2,800,000. These figures were supplied to the committee by officers of the Taxation Department, and were carefully checked before they were inserted in the report. I have no reason to disbelieve them; but I would like to be informed which set of figures is correct. I have a suspicion that there may have been some miscalculation of the real benefits which are expected to be derived from this tax. There may also be some miscalculation in connexion with the £800,000 to which the Minister has referred. The Government cannot treat the whole of the proceeds of this tax as gross additional revenue. This tax serves to absorb some of the fund which is available for dividends. If it were not imposed, dividends at a greater rate would pass to the shareholder, and the Government would thus be enabled to collect more income tax from individual taxpayers. I do not know whether that factor has been taken into account in calculating the net proceeds of the tax. Such information would be interesting. We must remember that there is only one fund, and that whether the money be taken from the shareholders themselves or the company, the fund is precisely the same. If it be taken, first, from the company the amount available to shareholders is reduced and, therefore, the contributions which they will make in the form of income tax will be reduced. I have already said that I regard the bill as bad, although it has been improved a little by the amendment moved in the House of Representatives, and wisely accepted by the Government. E hope that as the result of the alteration in respect of rates, the Board of Review provided for under this legislation will not be inundated with applications for special treatment. However, I fear that that will bo so. This class of tax originated as an attempt to deal with high profits in war-time. On that basis it has some psychological justification. 
For the reasons I have already given, I do not regard it as having any real merit as a producer of revenue; but, psychologically, some justification exists for putting a curb on the declaration of high dividends by .companies in war-time. That was the reason for the imposition of this tax last year. However, it is nonsense for the Government to suggest that it is really taxing high dividends when it commences to tax them at 5 per cent. Not sufficient regard is paid to the risk involved in industrial enterprises. In one class of business a rate of profit of 5 per cent, may be regarded as high, but in another class, having regard to the risks entailed, it. may be very low. In these days it is important that we should encourage the greatest possible degree of initiative and enterprise in industry. It is not wise to destroy all initiative and to make it impossible for people to earn rewards as the result of their keenness and genius in industry. I commend the Government for paying some attention to the reports that have been presented by the various joint committees, including the Joint Committee on Profits, of which I am chairman. The Government adopted one of that committee's recommendations in its income tax assessment legislation; but I do not believe that it would have indulged in this particular piece of legislation had it paid full regard to what the committee had said concerning legis lation of this kind. I emphasize that all members of the committee agreed upon those recommendations. They said - 
While the revenue from this source is not great, we think this problem should be considered, not merely from a revenue-producing point of view. There is strong and justifiable objection to the exploitation of the community in war-time, and this tax does place some curb upon the accumulation of excessive profits. On the other hand, we would emphasize the dangers of imposing a rate of tax which is so high as to discourage initiative and enterprise at a time when the exercise of these qualities is itself a valuable contribution to a total war effort. 
That paragraph expresses my views. Once we impose a vicious tax of this kind on so low a rate of profit as, say, 5 per cent, we run a real risk of seriously interfering with the very kind of initiative and enterprise which is essential to the success of the tremendous undertaking in which we are engaged. 
I am not reflecting upon anybody. When anyone suggests, in respect of company profits, that it is desirable to encourage enterprise, he is met with the accusation just made by the honorable senator. I have never heard any honorable senator opposite suggest that people who work in these industries should work, say, twelve hours a day for the amount of pay which they would receive for an eight-hour day. No one has ever suggested that a worker who asks for twelve hours' pay for twelve hours' work is unpatriotic. So it is with industrial enterprises as a whole. If we expect them to speed up and display initiative and enterprise we shall obtain the best results in that direction by offering them some inducement. It need not be a great inducement. But they will respond, provided they know that their efforts will bring some slight reward. I commend to the Government the paragraph which I have quoted from the report of the Joint Committee on Profits. I repeat that if the Government had digested that recommendation it would not have introduced this measure in the form in which it has been introduced in the House of Representatives or in this chamber. 
SenatorSPICER. - As I explainedbefore, I should impose an income tax on members of this community sufficient to provide the revenue which the Government needs. If the Government required £28,000,000 to-morrow, I should vote in support of a proposal to impose a tax of1s. in the £1 upon the income of every person in this community, rich or poor. Out of the total income of £560,000,000 of all persons earning under £400 a year, the sum of £28,000,000 can be secured in that way, and I believe that every honorable senator on this side would supports such a proposal. Consequently it is nonsense for any member to accuse the Opposition in the House of Representatives of anything improper in moving an amendment to this measure, because the amendment will result in reducing the revenue estimated to be secured under the bill by £800,000. At the same time honorable senators opposite refused to adopt the compulsory loan proposals of the Fadden Government, and thus scorned a means of raising £25,000,000. Yet they accuse us of doing something improper because we support an amendment which involves a reduction of £800,000 of the revenue to be obtained under this measure. We support the amendment because the Government has not followed sound lines in its taxation proposals. The Government and the people as a whole will come to regret this kind of taxation. Ultimately we shall be obliged to face up to the real issue, and say to every adult individual in the community that he or she must pay a little more out of his or her pocket. 
.- Honorable senators opposite have adopted an extraordinary attitude on this measure. They look at the bulk sums of company incomes, but they never pay regard to the amount that is paid to individual shareholders. When they notice that a big company makes a profit of, say, £1,000,000, they fail to realize that that sum represents the income of thousands of people. They look upon such organizations with suspicion, and allege that they are run by monopolists for thebenefit of monopolists. That is not the case. They are run by the general community. 
SenatorCameron.  -  Some of them are very well off. 
They are well off as the result of their own efforts and enterprise in establishing industries. In his second-reading speech the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  said that the bill would place this burden on the shoulders of those best able to bear it. As  Senator Spicer  and  Senator Leckie  have pointed out, that is not so. Let us consider the case cited by  Senator Leckie  in regard to preference shares. The purchase of preference shares is not a speculation but a safe investment, and for that reason tens of thousands of people have invested sums of £100, or £200, in that way. However, whilst those people are receiving less than the basic wage, they are to he taxed under this measure. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  asked honorable senators on this side to name a few persons coming within this class. On behalf of several women I have invested amounts of money in preference shares which return to them £50 a year. It was a little of their spare money. Trustees generally invest in preference shares. The Government proposes to take from these people the small income which such investments yield, and, as  Senator Spicer  has said, it is attempting, by taxing them through the companies, to blind them to the fact that they are being taxed. That is entirely wrong. Many of the companies which have been established during the last year are speculative. But will anyone invest money in new industries which may cease to exist when the war  is  over? Surely companies of this kind are entitled to a little greater rate of profit than 5 per cent, without additional impositions. Most of their plant will become obsolete when the war is over. Yet thousands of people who have invested their money in this way at great risk are to be taxed at an unfair rate under this measure. I agree with  Senator Spicer  that the Government proposes to exempt an income tax field of £560,000,000, which represents the aggregate incomes of taxpayers in receipt of between £400 and £1,500 a year. 
SenatorFraser. - They are not exempt. 
They are escaping the payment of any additional income tax, and I ask why? Hundreds of people who have invested money in industrial undertakings during the past two years will suffer because of this legislation. What chance have the companies which are to be penalized by this measure to place money in reserve as a set-off against obsolescent plant? They will be called upon to pay taxes upon practically the whole of the money that they put into reserve for obsolescent plant. Many people would not have established new businesses had they known that this difficulty would arise. The Government is doing wrong. The money could he raised in other ways. Consider the position of some of the big pastoral companies in Queensland. Usually these companies experience one good season and then three or four bad seasons. What will he their position if they are unable to put money into reserve to offset losses during bad seasons? This Government will have a rude awakening very soon. I shall support the bill because it must be supported, but I do so with a bad grace. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Senator McLeay)  put - 
That itbe an instruction to the committee of the whole on the bill to consider the insertion of a new section in the principal act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative there being more than fifteen Senators present and no dissentient voice. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
New clause 5a. 
.- I move - 
That after clause 5, the following new clause be inserted: - " 5a. After sectionthirty-seven of the principal act the following section is inserted: - 
This act shall continue in force until six months after the end of the Financial year during which the present war between His Majesty the King and Germany terminates, and no longer.'" 
The effect of this amendment if agreed to will be that the act will remain in force until six months after the end of the financial year in which thewar ter minates. The Government will have time to collect the tax during that year. The revenue will not be suddenly cut off. That provision is in accordance with a provision in the National Security Act, and I cannot see why the Government should not accept the proposal. If, when the time comes for the act to cease to operate, the Government desires to continue collecting the tax, the legislation can be re-enacted, but to pass this bill now and leave it on our statute-book for all time is a different matter altogether. It is conceivable that there might be some difficulty in repealing legislation of this kind, but, if the amendment be carried, this legislation would automatically cease to operate. I cannot see how objection can be raised to what is obviously a fair provision. This is a war-time profits measure, aimed at the control of profits in time of war, and at no other time. To make this legislation permanent because of the necessity to raise money in these exceptional circumstances is an unfair procedure. 
, - The committee would be unwise to accept  Senator Leckie's  amendment. When the war is over Parliament will be in a better position to determine what is required. It is unwise for us to attempt to foresee what will be the circumstances at the end of the war. It might be necessary to amend this legislation in a most drastic manner even before the end of the war. I see no reason for the amendment and I cannot subscribe to  Senator Leckie's  argument. Surely we can trust Parliament, whatever may be its composition at the end of the war, to determine this matter in the best way possible. 
.- There is nothing novel in the amendment. A similar provision already exists in the National Security Act. 
No. This also is war-time legislation. Parliament has seen fit to provide that the powers which the Government may exercise under the National Security Act shall be exercised only for a specified period. The title of this bill indicates that it is a tax upon the pro-fits of companies during war-time. 
I do not propose to do that. I suggest that we shall get along much better if the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  does not seek to draw a red herring across the trail. The point which he has raised has nothing whatever to do with this tax. This bill is being introduced as a waT-time measure and in that way it is similar to the National Security Act. The principal act does not expressly provide that it shall cease to operate at the end of the war, and we have an opportunity mow to insert a provision to that effect. We are not prejudicing anything or trammelling any one's discretion when the war is over. 
No; I have not heard anything so ridiculous in my life. We are not trammelling another Government by merely providing that this legislation will come to an end automatically when the war is over. 
As a matter of  fact,  that is a good argument in favour of the point which I am making. Because we do not know  what  the circumstances will be at the end of the war, it seems to me that it would be a good idea to ensure that the government of the day will consider this matter in the light of conditions operating at the end of the war. 
That as the whole point. If this amendment be carried, then whatever government may be in office at the end of .the war cannot escape the responsibility ,of considering whether or not it is desirable that this legislation be continued. In other words, Parliament will have to consider this problem in the light of the circumstances which exist at that time. Surely it is very desirable that, by means of a provision such as this, we should ensure that this matter will be considered by the government of the day, and by the Parliament of the day, in the light of existing circumstances. 
.- The Government cannot accept the amendment. As  Senator Leckie  is aware, a similar amendment was suggested by a member of the Opposition, but the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  took the view that it would not be fair to bind a future government to such an undertaking. I remind honorable senators that this amendment actually has nothing to do with the bill before the Senate. It is an amendment of .an act passed by the Menzies Government. Therefore  Senator Leckie  is actually asking  this Government to do something which his own Government failed to do. I suggest to the honorable senator that as this matter has been raised only in this chamber, it be molt pressed. The amendment appears to me to be unnecessary. We should not tie the hands of the  government  that happens to be in power after the war. 
[10.1L - Company taxation has been increased by 50 per cent., and the "vital amendment made by the bill is to levy a war-time profits tax on companies when their profits exceed 5 per cent., whereas under the present act the statutory rate of profit is 8 per cent. This very drastic alteration submits '.companies to vicious taxation, although it is desirable to encourage people here .and overseas who may be interested in investing their capital in companies in Australia to believe that there is some hope for the future. It is desirable to be assured that this iniquitous rate of tax will apply only for the period indicated in the amendment submitted 'by  Senator Leckie.  I appeal to the Ministry and to the committee to accept the , amendment. 
I do not know the reason that has actuated the Opposition in submitting the amendment. The Opposition might well wait until after the war before submitting such an extraordinary proposal. Whatever government happens to he in power at the 'conclusion of the -war, -will have 'heavy financial obligations in providing for the returned members &lt;of our  fighting, forces, andi it may be necessary to retain taxes, at the present rates for more than- six. months after the conclusion of the war.. An endeavour is being made by the Opposition by. pressure to place a tag on this bill, so that, like the National Security. Act, it will cease to operate six months after the termination of the war ;. but I see no reason why such  a:  provision should be made with regard' to a. taxation bill'. Any honorable senator who imagines that the financial difficulties of the government of the day will cease- at the conclusion of the war is making a serious mistake. I am. glad that, the: Minister  (Senator Keane)  has definitely declared that the Government will not accept tlie amendment. 

 Senator ARTHUR  (New South Wales) p0..7':.  -  There are 1718 public: companies in New South Wales, andi they have an enormous- amount, of paid-up- capital. Mien associated with those companies control: practically the1 whole of the economic structure  o£  the- State, and, if the- amendment submitted by  Senator Leckie  were carried, we should tie the hands; of this Parliament for the duration of the war, unless this legislation were amended at a later date. The- companies im New. South- Wales, that., will be- affected by this measure- number- 127, and if they were permitted to- make a profit- of 5 per cent, on watered capital- 
The honorable senator nrma*, show that his remarks are directly connected with the amendment. He would not be in order in making, a second-reading speech at this stage; 
If the amendment were accepted' the Government that happened to be in power at. the conclusion of the war would find its hands tied unless this legislation were amended. We should do nothing to impede the financial operations of the government of the day at the conclusion of the war. The time may come when it will be thought desirable to allow companies to make a profit of 15 per cent, on their watered capital, or the rate of profit may be fixed as. low as 14 per cent. 
. -One good reason- why the amendment should be accepted; by the committee was provided by the Minister for External Territories  (Senator Fraser)  who pointed out. that at the- end of the war it might be necessary for the Government to continue the form, of tax provided for by this bill. If that position should arise,, the Government of the day should go into the question as. to whether the war-time company tax should be. retained; but, if that be the view of the present Government the title o£ the bill should be altered. It. was- brought down as a wartime meas.ur.e- and provides for heavy imposts to meet war-time needs.  Senator Leckie  is to&lt; be commended for having proposed this amendment. Heavy taxes hara been, imposed on. the community in the past., and the people have been assured tha-t they have been, imposed only as- emergency measures-,, bat those taxes ha-v.e never been, withdrawn, nor has further legislative- sanction- been obtained for their continuance. During a time of depression- and difficulty a special tax was- imposed by a State government to deal with unemployment, but, even when, unemployment ceased, that tas was not withdrawn-; it was merely given another name.. Many taxes that, have been expressly imposed to. meet emergency conditions, have- remained in operation.. I remind the Minister that the insertion of such a provision in a bill is nothing, new. The same thing has been done in connexion with the gold tax. On account of the abnormal price of gold, due principally to war conditions, a percentage of the premium over and above a certain rate is regarded as a war tax. When conditions- return fo normal,, the price of gold will probably fall, in which event the tax will no longer operate. As the Minister for External Territories has suggested that the Government may Be inclined to retain this form of taxation after the war, I can only say that his argument is an additional reason for carrying the amendment. 
,. -  I heartily support the amendment moved by  Senator Leckie,  and cannot, understand the heat which the proposal has engendered on the Government  benches. The amendment casts no reflection on the present Government. If it be a reflection at all, it is a reflection on the Government which introduced the original measure. I have no hesitation in saying that the Government of the day overlooked an important point when it set no limit to that legislation. I agree with  Senator Foll  that far too many measures have been continued long after the reasons for their introduction have passed. When the sales tax was first introduced by a Labour Government, it was described as an emergency measure, but it has been continued ever since. 
The taxpayers were told that the sales tax was justified only in the peculiar circumstances which then existed. In fairness to the taxpayers, we should ensure that this class of legislation will cease to operate when the need for it no longer exists. Should the amendment be carried and the government of the day find that this measure should be continued when its term expires, legislation to re-enact it canbe introduced. I hope that the Government will accept the amendment in the spirit in which it is proposed. 
There is no ground for  Senator McBride's  statement that we on this side have become heated during this debate. 
I admit that I do not understand it, but as honorable senators opposite are so unanimous in their support of it, I naturally look for the " nigger in the woodpile ". 
I should not have risen had it not been for  Senator Foil's  remarks concerning certain legislation passed, I think that he said, by the Parliament of Queensland. The honorable senator was inaccurate when he said that that legislation was continued without any review. He referred to unemployment insurance legislation which was introduced during a period of depression. The tax imposed by that measure was abandoned, and to-day, the worker on the basic wage does not pay it. There is a development tax in Queensland, but there is no unemployment insurance tax. I cannot see any reason for the amendment of  Senator Leckie,  but I am not greatly concerned whether or not it is accepted. 
.- I thought that the Government, if it intended to oppose the amendment, would give some reasons for its opposition, but the only reason advanced on its behalf so far is that the Government should have an opportunity to review this legislation at the end of the war. That is precisely the object of the amendment. Government supporters have suggested that to set; a time limit on legislation is something new, but that is not so. There is a time limit on the National Security Act, and on various measures providing for the payment of bounties. I admit that no such limitation was suggested by the Government that, introduced the original bill. At the time, no honorable senator then in opposition drew attention to the matter, but that cannot be said of this bill. As this is a war-time measure, theGovernment should accept the amendment, and allow the bill to pass. 
Question put - 
That the proposed new clause be agreed to  (Senator Leckie's amendment). 
.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure provides for the amendment of the rates of war-time company tax in accordance with the Government's proposal to obtain from public companies a greater contribution to the revenue. I desire to explain very briefly the existing scale of rates of war-time company tax. The tax is imposed on the amount by which the taxable profit of a company exceeds the percentage standard. The percentage standard is an amount equal to 8 per cent, of the capital employed. The first 1 per cent, of capital employed by which the taxable profit exceeds the percentage standard is taxed at 4 per cent and the tax increases by 4 per cent, for each additional 1 per cent., until a maximum rate of 60 per cent is reached. The maximum rate applies at the stage where the taxable profit exceeds 22 per cent, of the capital employed. It is now proposed to increase the commencing rate and steps from 4 per cent, to 6 per cent, and to increase the maximum rate from 60 per cent, to 78 per cent, Under the proposed scale of rates the maximum rate will be reached at the point where the taxable profit exceeds 17 per cent, of the capital employed. The attention of honorable senators is invited to the schedule to the bill in which the proposed amended scale of rates appears. The scale is arranged in the same manner as the present scale. The schedule shows the rates of tax applicable to companies whose excess of taxable profit over the percentage standard is greater than 1 per cent, of the capital employed. The third column shows the average rate of tax applicable to the portion of the excess which is equal to the percentage on capital specified in the second column. In order to illustrate how the average rate is ascertained, let it be assumed that the excess of taxable profit over the percentage standard is more than 3 per cent, but not more than 4 per cent, of the capita] employed. If the various steps of tax were set out in detailed form the position would be: - 

<graphic href="169332194111253_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

The rate shown in the third column for that portion of the excess equal to 3 per cent, of the capital employed is 12 per cent., that is, the average of  6  per cent, for the first 1 per cent., 12 per cent, for the second and 18 per cent, for the third. The form in which the rate is expressed is short and comparatively simple. It is anticipated that the increase of the rates of tax together with the reduction of the statutory percentage from8 per cent, to 5 per cent., will yield an additional £3,800,000 for a full year, and that of this amount £3,100,000 will be collected during the current financial year. This means that the total amount estimated to be collected is £4,100,000 as compared with £1,000,000 which the previous Government expected to collect. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
A fortnight ago I placed the following questions on the notice-paper: - 
Is it the intention of the Government to immediately revise the list of exempted occupations in order to make available additional men for recruits for the Australian Imperial Force? 
Is it the intention to utilize womanpower wherever possible in order to free men for the fighting services? 
Surely sufficient time has elapsed to enable the Department of Defence Coordination to supply the answers to those two simple questions. 
, -  I desire to refer to a statement attributed to the Minister for the Navy  (Mr. Makin)  in Adelaide last Sunday. According to a newspaper report the Minister said that those who were bringing forward the vexed question of conscription should, be reminded that the members of the Australian Imperial  Force  in the last war had pronounced against it. No doubt the Minister made that statement in good faith, but it is amazing that that lie has persisted for so long. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in referring to a statement made by a Minister  as  a lie. 
The total majority of the men of the Australian Imperial Force overseas in 1917 who favoured conscription was 9,879. 
 This afternoon the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  replied to a question which I asked dealing with the amount of subscriptions by private banks and insurance companies to the recent war loan. I have a distinct recollection that I also asked for the amount reconverted  as well as the cash contributions of those institutions. However, the cash subscriptions only were provided in the answer supplied to me. I now ask the Minister if he will also supply the amounts reconverted by the private banks and the insurance companies in the recent loan. 
I am very glad to learn that the Government of Tasmania has asked the Commonwealth to appoint a committee to inquire into the economic position of that State as the result of war conditions. In this respect, I wish to bring certain immigration figures to the notice of honorable senators. Between the end of December, 1939, and the 30th June, 1941, the population of Victoria increased by 51,000, New South Wales by 26,000, Queensland by 20,000, Western Australia by 3,000 and' South Australia by 2,000, whereas the population of Tasmania decreased by 3,000. This loss is due to the fact that no war industries have been established in Tasmania. I realize that Tasmania was not industrialized to the same degree as the mainland when the war broke out two years ago. However, there has been ample time since then to commence war industries. Tasmania is richly endowed with mineral wealth, and has the distinction of possessing a greater variety of minerals than any other country in the world. With the largest and cheapest hydroelectric power in Australia, it is particularly fitted to fill any waT demands. It is said that war undertakings in South Australis will require 60,000 employees when they are in full production. Tasmania, unfortunately, will be expected to supply many of these employees. With our small population of only a little over 200,000, a loss of 3,000 persons a year is very serious. This can be obviated only by the immediate establishment of factories for war work. Recently, I visited Orange and inspected a munitions factory in course of erection which is estimated to cost £400,000, and to give employment to 1,200 people. The defence of Tasmania has also been neglected. It has been pointed out that a hostile force could use Tasmania as a base of operations against the mainland. This matter also calls for inquiry. Tasmania is send ing its quota of men overseas, and its own defence should not be overlooked by our military authorities. 
I also draw the attention of honorable senators to the statement which I have made in this chamber from time to time that there can be no new order, and no improvement, under the present monetary system. In that respect I bring to the notice of honorable senators the following warning which comes from Canada: - 
POLICE CHIEF'S WARNING. 
The following Canadian press news item should be pondered by every thinking person - and by some politicians who do not appear to come in this category : - 
Winnipeg, 18th September. - (CP.)- 
Marcel Gaboury, of Montreal, director of the Quebec provincial police, to-day urged police forces in Canada to be ready for possible post-war unrest that may come from social and economic changes. " Social and economic unrest is  merely  dormant", he told delegates at the annual convention of the Chief Constables Association of Canada. " After the war many men overseas do not propose to lay down their arms and march the streets in search of work ", he said, " Labour leaders have told me that if the Government can spend- millions on war it can do so during peace ". 
.- The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  has intimated to me that be will inquire into the reason for the delay in forwarding replies to questions asked by  Senator Foll.  I recollect that  Senator Allan  MacDonald also asked for the information which he mentioned. Unfortunately, I overlooked it, but I shall obtain the additional figures he asks for and supply them to him as soon as possible. The appointment of the committee to inquire into the economic position of Tasmania as the result of war conditions, to which  Senator Darcey  has referred, was the subject of a statement made by the Leader of the Senate to-day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. ' 
-I direct the attention of the Minister for the Interior to the fact that a great deal of difficulty has been experienced by honorable senators in the last two or three months in booking of sleeping berths on interstate railways. We realize that the railways are taxed to their utmost capacity, but we consider that we do not receive the same consideration as that given to private persons. In many instances we have applied f or berths a week, ten days and even a fortnight ahead,and have been told that accommodation was not available, but that we should be informed later regarding the matter. We have often found that, even after long waitingperiods, berths have not been obtainable. I think that it will be agreed that when a senator applies for a berth at least a week in advance,his application should be successful. 
 I shall have the remarks of the honorable senator brought to the notice of the Minister for the Interior, who is temporarily absent and ask that an early replybe furnished. 
In view of the question asked by  Senator J  ames McLachlan regarding the difficulty experienced by honorable senators in obtaining berths on the interstate railways, will the Minister in charge of navigation make inquiries as to the vacant passenger accommodation on the Governmentcontrolled interstate vessels plying between the eastern ports of Australia and Western Australia, with a view to ascertaining  whether it would be possible to use that accommodation for the transport of many departmental officials and others who now travel on the trans- Australian railway? Those passengers are known in railroad circles as " dead-heads ", and most of them are not in a hurry when required to travel on business. That would reduce the present urgent demand for berths on the railways and make use of the space available on interstate steamers that are now plying from port to port with an extremely small number of passengers. 
I shall endeavour to get the information desired by the honorable senator, but 1 remind him that departmental officers often have important duties to perforin, and are not all " dead-heads". 
Has the PostmasterGeneral any information to convey to the Senate regarding a suggestion that returned soldiers who have occupied positions as semi-official postmasters for nearly twenty years should have their appointments made official and permanent? 
The honorable senator indicated to me this morning that he intended to ask that question. I have been supplied with the following information :  - 
There are seventeen returned soldiers occupying positions as semi-official postmasters in the Commonwealth and the question as to whether they come within the provisions of section 84 (9) (c) of the Public Service Act is one for determination by the Public Service Board, to which reference is being made. 
Inquiries are being made into the matter, but are not yet complete. 
asked the Minister for Information, upon  notice - 
Was the Honorable N. Makin, Minister for the Navy and Minister for Munitions, truthfully reported in the press in the statement that Diggers of the Australian Imperial Force in the last war pronounced definitely against the adoption of conscription? 
If so, will the Minister for Information supply his ministerial colleague with the result of the Diggers' vote  in  the referendums taken  in  1916 and 1917? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions is as follows :  -  1 and 2. The Minister for the Navy has made a public correction of the statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Hasany arrangement been made for travelling facilities for members of the forces visiting their homes at King Island and Flinders Island on Christmas leave? 
If not, will the Minister, owing to the heavy bookings, make similar arrangements with Australian National Airways as he has already made with Tasmanian Steamship Proprietary Limited, to ensure to  members  of the forces the same opportunity of visiting their homes when on leave at Christmas? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer: - 
Arrangements are being made to ensure that members of the Military Forces will  be  able to visit their homes  in  King  or  Flinders Islands during their period  of  Christmas leave. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister furnish the Senate with particulars of the dehydration of meat that is being carried out in Queensland and the prospects of success of this process? 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
Experiments which have been carried out in both Sydney and Brisbane have been directed to the dehydration of mutton. Sample shipments have been made to the British Ministry of Food, and advice is awaited regarding the outturn. Officers of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research are co-operating with representatives of the industry in this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to increase the growers' representation on the Central Wool Committee? 
If so, when? 
The Minister for Commercehas supplied the following answer :  - 
and 2. The matter is at present receiving consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Co-ordination,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to immediately revise the list of exempted occupations in order to make available additional men for recruits for the Australian Imperial Force? 
Is  it  the intention to utilize womanpower wherever possible in order to free men tor the fighting services? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied the following answers: - 
Industries and occupations covered by the list of reserved occupationsare under constant review by the Man-power Committee and the Man-power Priorities Board. 
The answer falls into two divisions -(a) Civil industry - Yes, if no alternative male labour is available within the limits of certain occupations and subject to certain safeguards. (b) The Services, where the circumstances may vary - The Navy: If no alternative male labour supply is available, the matter will receive the consideration of the Government. The Army: Approvalhas been given for the formation of an Australian Women's Army Service, the members of which are to perforin such work in connexion with the Army as can suitably be carried out by women with a view to releasing men from the rearward administrative services. It is not, however, the policy to dispense with men at present enlisted, but to transfer them for more active work with the forward formations and fighting units. The Air Force: Yes, if no alternative male labour is available within the limits of certain occupations and subject to certain conditions. In the case of the Air Force, members of the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force will he employed on such duties as those of wireless operators, teleprinter operators, tailoresses, nursing orderlies, clerks stores, clerks general, clerks pay, telephone operators and the like. 
The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answer :  - 
The matter has not yet been determined, but it is expected that an announcement of the Government's intention will be made at an early date. 
On the 20th 
November  Senator Brand  asked whether a copy of Major-General  Sir Iven  Mackay's report on the Australian Defence Forces would be made available to honorable senators. The Minister for the Army advises that it will be appreciated that security considerations preclude the publication of the whole of the report of the Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces. 
On the 21st November  Senator Brand  asked if the Minister for the Army had been correctly reported in the press which stated that the Minister had remarked that a raw recruit could be made into a soldier in a week. I undertook to discuss the matter with my colleague, and am advised that drill as such will, in the future, play a very minor part in the training of the Australian soldier. What was implied in the remark by the Minister for the Army was that sufficient drill will be taught in a week to make a trainee efficient to carry out his sterner training for battle, and not that the reduction of the period allotted to drill would make an efficient soldier in a week. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is designed to place theburden of income tax evenly on the shoulders of the whole community, chiefly by closing avenues for evasion of tax and by eliminating concessions that are considered, tobe not justified under war-time conditions. The most important of the amendments effected by the bill is designed to discontinue the exemption hitherto allowed to resident shareholders on. dividends paid by companies out of exempt ex-Australian profits. Last year, the Commonwealth abolished the rebate of tax previously allowed on dividends included in the taxable incomes of individual shareholders'. By that action it departed from the principle which operated previously that the profits of a company are the profits of its shareholders. Now that recognition has  been  give to the principle that  the  profits of a company and the dividends paid out of those profit's are separate items for purposes of taxation, there is no logical reason for treating income which is exempt  in  the hands of the company as retaining its exempt character when  distributed  by way of dividends to the shareholders.  The  exemption of dividend's creates anomalies as between shareholders receiving equal amounts of dividends, inasmuch as one shareholder is obliged to pay tax on the full amount of his dividend whilst another shareholder is either free from tax on his dividend or is liable to tax ononly a part of it. The abolition of the exemption willremove this discrimination. As a result, dividends paid by companies out of their exempt ex-Australian profit's will now be included in the taxable field, and the further exemption allowed to shareholders in respect of dividends paid by companies out of profits arising from the sale or compulsory resumption for public purposes of non-trading assets of the company will also be discontinued. It is not proposed that the removal of the exemption shall have any retrospective application ; the new law will apply only in respect of dividends declared after the 29th October, the date on which the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  delivered his budget speech and' announced the Government's proposal to discontinue the exemption. 
Another important feature of the bill is the repeal of section45 of the principal act. That section relates to Commonwealth loan interest included in dividends distributed to shareholders. To the degree that dividends are paid out of Commonwealth loan interest the dividends are taxed to the shareholders at the rate of tax applied in 1930-31. The origin of section 45 may be traced to the agreement made in 1931 between the Commonwealth and the bondholders stating the terms on which bonds were to be converted. Included in that agreement was a provision that interest on the converted securities should not carry a greater rate of tax than that applying for the financial year 1930-31. That agreement did not, however, extend to dividends paid out of Commonwealth  loan  interest. In the following year the then Government introduced into the law the provisions which it is now proposed to repeal. The incorporation of section 45 in the law was justified on the ground that it was the logical extension of. the undertaking, given to the bondholders when they converted their loans. It was then contended by the Government that if section 45 were not enacted the agreement with the bondholders would be partly nullified. This Government does not subscribe to that view. The undertaking given to the bondholders applied to the interest on the loans, and in the view of this Government there was no justification at all for any extension of the concessional rate to dividend's which section. 45 authorizes. The tax imposed on interest received by companies from these converted bonds does not exceed1s. 4d. in the £1, which was the rate applied to companies for the financial year 1930-31. Accordingly, the company, as the recipient of the interest, has in the past received, and will continue to receive, the advantage of the difference between the 1930-31 rate and the ordinary company rate as well as freedom from super tax and the undistributed profits tax of ls. and 2s. in the £1 respectively. Whatever  siew any previous government may have had in regard to this matter, the .present Government is satisfied that there was no justification for the introduction of section 43 into the law, and it now proposes that .that provision be repealed. I may add that .the  view  taken by this Govern.ment  coincides  with the view taken -by the Royal .Commission on Taxation, which in 1932-34 conducted an investigation and recommended the repeal of the section. 
The bill also contains a special provision to apply -where income-producing assets .are transferred by a taxpayer to his wife. In -view of the heavy incidence -of war-time taxation, it is , necessary to provide :a .safeguard :against the possibility of .a taxpayer .dividing his income producing assets between his wife and .himself, with the object -of avoiding taxation. This provision will .ensure that, where such action has 'been taken, the same amount of tax will ,be payable on tlie income from the gift or the transfer-red property as would have been payable had the husband retained the .gift .or property.  As  an instance of the working -of this provision, if ;a taxpayer  transferred  to his wife property from which a net income of £600 was  derived  and, in addition, the taxpayer himself derived .a taxable income o'f £1,400, tax &gt;will .bc pay-able by the husband on £1,400 and by the wife on £600, at the rate -applicable to ;a taxable income of £2,000. If, -however, the wife derives income from sources ether than the property transferred to liar by her husband, she will be .assessed on that income at the rate applicable thereto. -Using the example cited previously;, and assuming that the wife derived -a net income of £400 from sources other than the property transferred to her by her .husband, she would thus be .taxed on that amount .at "the rate appropriate to £400. This tax would, .of course, ;be in addition to the tax on the £600 derived by her from the transferred property. It is not proposed that this new la.w -should have retrospective .application.; it will apply only in respect of gifts and- transfers of property without fully adequate .consideration made subsequent to the 29 th -October last. The Government does not desire that this provision should .apply where a taxpayer, without .thought of avoiding 'taxation 1-ia-bility, makes necessary provision for his wife's future security. To meet such a position, it is proposed that the amendment shall not ;apply where the wife's taxable income does not exceed £200 irrespective of the  sources  of the derivation of that income. It is likely that in some instances the transferred property affected by this proposal will consist of assets o'f a business, in the conduct of which the wife ns actively engaged. In cases of that nature, the Commissioner will -determine the proper value of the services rendered 'by the wife in the conduct of the business, and when ascertaining the net income from the transferred property for the purpose of applying the provision, will allow a deduction for such services. As war-time needs have prompted this proposal, it is provided that this provision shall cease to 'be operative when the National Security Act is repealed. 
It is proposed to -discontinue the concessional .deduction for children in respect of whom .the child .endowment benefit is payable. This amendment implements the proposal which was made clear when the child endowment scheme was introduced. P,art of the revenue -to finance the scheme was to he .obtained from additional collections of income tax arising from the disallowance of the concessional deduction for children in respect of whom child endowment was payable. The amendment will not, however, disallow the .deduction in respect of children who reached the age of sixteen years 'between the 1st July, 1940, and thc .30.th June, 1941 -, in other words, children in .respect of whom child endowment is not payable. As child endowment will not be payable for a full twelve months in respect of a child attaining the age .of sixteen spears during the period from the 1st July, 1941, to the -30th June, 1942, it is recognized that there is an .equitable claim -for the .allowance of some deduction for such a child. The amendment therefore -provides for the allowance of a proportionate part of the deduction of £50, according .to the length of time .during 1941-42 that the endowment will not be payable in respect of such children. For example, in respect of a child reaching sixteen on the 30th September, 19.41, the parent will receive three-quarters of .the -£50 allowance, whilst in respect of a child who will become sixteen on the 31st March, 1942, the allowance will be one-quarter of the £50 deduction. This concession will be applicable in assessments for this year only. It is not intended that it be continued beyond this year. 
Under the bill, the deduction of amounts paid as calls to mining companies in arriving at taxable income will be discontinued. Instead, it is proposed to allow a rebate of tax calculated on the amount of the calls at one-third of the rate of tax payable on the taxpayer's taxable income. The tax concession as now proposed is designed to allow substantially the same tax benefit as was enjoyed in pre-war years. 
The measure also provides that, where a trust has been created for children and the children are minors and unmarried, the trustee will bc required to pay the additional tax that the settlor would have been liable to pay on the settlement income if he had retained the settled property. By creating trusts and settlements of this nature, the settlor avoids liability to tax on income which is applied in meeting what is really his responsibility for the maintenance of his children. This has a detrimental effect on revenue which it is proposed to remedy. 
The bill also makes provision for the removal of the exemption of income derived by a deceased person in his lifetime from, the period commencing on the 1st July up to the date of his death, if the estate is liable to Commonwealth Estate Duty. The existing exemption is based on the argument that the income of the period immediately preceding death can be presumed to have been included in the value of the estate on which estate duty will be paid, and the exemption is necessary to avoid double taxation. This argument, however, overlooks the fact that all of the assets of a deceased person at his death represent, in the main, accumulations of incomes derived by him during his lifetime, on which he has paid income tax. From this point of view it is considered that no justification exists for making any distinction in respect of the income derived in the period immediately prior to his death. A further objection to the continuance of this exemption is that it confers unequal advantages in different cases. The estate of a person who dies towards the close of a financial year obtains a greater advantage than the estate of a person whose death occurred soon after the beginning of such a year. Another feature of the withdrawal of the exemption is that it is a further step towards the goal of uniformity in State and Commonwealth taxation laws. 
It is also proposed to bring within the assessable income field of a deceased person which had accrued due to him prior to his death, but which is received by his personal representative. The cases principally affected by this provision will be those of professional men such as doctors, solicitors, &amp;c, as well as businesses conducted by individuals for the purpose of effecting sub-divisional sales of land on the instalment principle and persons engaged in selling goods on the hire-purchase system. As these are receipts in the nature of income and would have been so assessed if the deceased person had not died, no reason exists why his personal representative after death should not be taxed thereon. 
It is also proposed to repeal section 160 qf the principal act which provides for the allowance in certain cases of a rebate of tax to an individual carrying on business. The rebate is the excess of the individual's rate of tax over the company rate on 15 per cent, of his income from the business. Section 160 was designed to give to individuals a concession similar to that formerly allowed to a private company which permitted the company to retain onethird of its taxable income free from liability for the additional tax on undistributed income. This concession to private companies was withdrawn last year, and no justification remains for the continued allowance of the rebate to individuals. 
The bill also provides for an abatement of tax in cases in which the combined Commonwealth and State taxes exceeds  18s.  in the £1. The Government's scale of income tax rates has been based on a maximum weight of combined Commonwealth and State taxes of 18s. in the £1. It is realized, however, that cases may arise in which the combined  weight of the two taxes will exceed this maximum rate. This provision has accordingly been made in order to give appropriate relief in these cases. The relief which the Commonwealth will give to the taxpayers concerned is the proportion of the excess rate over 18s. in the £1 which the Commonwealth weight of tax bears to the weight of the combined Commonwealth and State taxes. For instance, if the combined weight of tax is, say, 21s. in the £1 consisting of 14s. Commonwealth tax and 7s. State tax, the Commonwealth will give relief to the extent of 2s. in the £1. It then rests with the States to abate the remaining1s. The proposed rebate will apply to companies as well as to individuals. 
It is also proposed to amend the provisions relating to the assessability of the pay and allowances of members of the forces with the object of removing certain anomalies which exist under the present provisions of the law. 
The matters which I have mentioned are the more important features of the bill. Points upon which honorable senators may desire information will be explained during the committee stages of the measure. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 
Yesterday when I asked leave to continue my remarks I was about to deal with the position of our wool-growers. Last May when I asked a question in this chamber regarding the price of wool I was informed that either party to the existing agreement between the Commonwealth and the 
British Government may seek a review of the agreement in May of each year. The existing price does not give a fair return to the growers. I have received correspondence from growers in every part of the Commonwealth pointing out that the minimum economic price should be 15½d. per lb. I hope that when the present contract is reviewed in May our representatives will endeavour to obtain that price for our growers. Whilst our wool-growers have put up with the present price for a long period, I have no doubt that the gentlemen in Bradford who are reaping the bulk of the profit from the sale of our wool are in exceptionally comfortable circumstances. 
They are making a "good thing" out of our wool. When the existing contract is reviewed I hope that a minimum price of 15½d. per lb. will be secured. That price was paid during the last war and was based on the cost of production, and no good reason exists Why that method should not be followed on this occasion. 
Prices range from 7½d. to10½d. per lb., according to quality. The price realized by the British Australian Wool Realization Association in 1916 averaged £22 10s. a bale, whereas under the present scheme the average price is £17 15s. a bale. In the meantime, our costs of production have increased substantially. On this subject I quote the following press extract: - 
Increases of costs since the present war began are important in a consideration of this matter. 
The increase of retail prices from September, 1939, to September, 1941, was 10.2 per cent. The index of wholesale prices increased during the same period by 23 per cent.; the imports section by 42 percent., and the home section by only 13 per cent. The export index showsthat the price of Australia's exports increased from 'September, 1939, to September, 1941, by11¼ per cent. whereas the imports index shows that the prices of imports have risen 44 per cent., or that imports to Australia for the war period have risen in price 33 per cent. more than our exports. Now these figures show that theprices of imports over the price of wool increased from 10 per cent. to 12 per cent. and the cost of living by 10.2 per cent. Therefore, the price paid in Australian currency for our wool should be in keeping with the increase of the prices of our imports and with the increase of the cost of living which graziers and all others associated with the wool industry have to pay. The return to the grazier for his wool should be 15½d. per lb. 
That isa fair proposition. The present cost of production of wool is much higher than it has been for many years. The wool-grower has as much right as the wage-earner to a fair return for his labour.Our wool and wheat growers should be guaranteed a fair return for their product based on costs of production. Some people have an idea that because a man is on the land he is well off. That is not so. Personally, I think that it would be wise to devise a specific farming policy in respect of the wheat and wool industries. Wheat is an essential foodstuff, and therefore it must be regarded as indispensable in time of war. Many say that it is unnecessary for Australia to produce the large quantity of wheat at present being grown, but I venture to suggest that the time may soon come when all our wheat will be required to feed the peoples overseas. Unfortunately, shipping space is not available at present. 
That, too, has much to commend it. 
I believe that they would. Thank God that the Russian soldiers are doing such a magnificent job to-day. Owing to enlistments for service overseas and in our Militia Forces, our man-power resources have been greatly depleted, and great difficulty will be encountered in harvesting this season's crops of primary products. I suggest that men undergoing military training who possess a knowledge of farming in its various forms should be released from camps to assist with the harvesting. That is my idea, and naturally I regard it as a good one. A year ago the late " Texas " Green and I approached the then Government with that suggestion, and we were successful in securing the release of a number of militiamen to undertake seasonal works in rural areas. There is no reason why that should not be done this season. I also suggest that if conveyances be unprocurable to transport the wheat when it is harvested, military trucks should be made available for that work. There are many hundreds of such vehicles which could be used. I am anxious to assist the farmer in every way possible. 
That is a matter which is governed by international convention. The suggestion which I have made would overcome the difficulty. 
SenatorFoll. - Some of the honorable senator's colleagues claim that there are still some unemployed. Why not enlist the services of such men for harvesting? 
There are not many unemployed. 
I am pleased that the Government intends to establish a mortgage bank. 
It will be established at the first possible opportunity. Successive governments supported by honorable senators opposite had not the courage to provide such a bank. The establishment of such a bank is long overdue. 
Yes, but it would be better with the support of a Commonwealth-wide mortgage bank. Moreover, even though the people of Western Australia are provided for in that respect, the need exists in the other States. Farmers want greater security of tenure than they have had hitherto. Honorable senators who know something of farming conditions realize the difficulties which exist to-day. 
Considerable criticism has been voiced by honorable senators opposite concerning the Government's proposal in regard to soldiers' pay. My view is that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. With an increase of active service pay, more money will be in circulation instead of being tied up in the banks as it would be bad the previous Government's proposals been accepted. Why should not the wives and families of soldiers serving overseas have an opportunity to spend at least some of the money which their men folk are earning? If they wish to save it, they can. It is much better for the people generally to have additional purchasing power. Women are just as good money -savers as are men. 
I agree that expenditure on certain goods must be curtailed, but people must eat to live. That is why we should assist farmers to get their foodstuffs on to the market. 
No. I am fully in accord with the Government's decision to increase soldiers' active service pay. I am also pleased to know that invalid and old-age pensions have been increased. Unfortunately, it is still insufficient, but some day I may want an oldage pension myself, and 23s. 6d. will be very acceptable. It: cannot be denied that the work done by men and women who to-day are in receipt of the old-age pension, has been responsible for honorable senators being where they are to-day. These old people deserve some credit for their efforts, and they should be paid as much as the country can afford to give them. 
Yesterday I spoke of the expansion of war industries in Western Australia and I am pleased to know that the assurance given to me by  Senator Collett  is quite in accordance with the facts. The newspapers report that a considerable volume of work is proceeding. 
Yesterday, I dealt also with the shortage of steel in Australia. As a member of the Joint Committee on War Expenditure, I visited many munitions establishments, including foundries, and the general complaint was that output was restricted owing to a shortage of steel. That state of affairs should not exist while vast iron ore deposits such as those at Yampi Sound are lying idle. The following article was published in the  Round Table Club,  of the 1st July, 1941, dealing with the production of steel in China :  - 
It is true. No one can deny that successful efforts were made to prevent the development of the Yampi Sound deposits. 
I have not mentioned the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited or any other similar concern ; I merely said that the work had been stopped. The honorable senator has disclosed the actual position when he says that the work was stopped by the Government. The article continues - 
This monopolyhas now assumed the proportions of an octopus. Its representatives are not confined to steel production, but are working their way into other spheres of life in Australia. Some day we Australians will have to face this issue. Otherwise, we might find that such monopolies arc determining both our domestic and foreign policies. Their influence at Canberra is already well known. 
Free China has a much clearer view of democracy than we have in Australia. We call Australia a democracy, but how can such huge monopolies as those just referred to flourish in true democracy? Free China vests such giant concerns in the people and operates them for the good of the people and not for the dividends of a few financial magnates who sit behind polished tables and direct the destinies of millions of pounds. All capital belongs to the peopleand not to a private or State monopoly. Industry is conducted for service and not profit. Prosperity is determined by consumption and not production. Some men talk of democracy and freedom without attempting to define these terms and failing to realize that there cannot be a democracy or freedom under a profit-making economic order. We affirm with all the emphasis of which we arc capable that this profit-making motive is the very opposite to democracy and freedom. 
That could be done in Australia. 
It should expand it as nw eh as possible. That would assist Western Australia, which has extensive deposits of iron ore at Yampi Sound. Steel is required for ships, guns and many other similar articles and there is a general shortage of it. All of the manufacturers in Melbourne who use steel complain of a shortage. 
The fact that the honorable senator denies my statement does not prove it to be incorrect. I speak of what T know and have seen for myself. In the course of my duties as a member of a joint committee, I visited various establishments in Melbourne, and I saw workmen standing idle 'because they were waiting for materials. In one establishment, I was kept in the office while the word was passed round the works that I was making an inspection. I discovered that there was an absolute shortage of steel. I appeal to honorable senators opposite to assist the Government in every possible way, as "Labour senators assisted the previous Administration. 
That may be so, but honorable senn tors on this side also put the previous Government on the right track on many occasions. I believe that the Opposition intends to assist the Government in its war effort, Australia needs better equipment than that possessed by our enemies, and Australian workshops are turning out equipment that does credit to the country. The progress made in our war production in the last eighteen months or two years has surprised the world ; but, unless our factories can be supplied with the requisite materials, it will be impossible for them to achieve the results desired. What (he Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  has told honorable senators regarding the work of the aircraft factories is true. The present Government intends to carry the war effort through to a successful conclusion. 
As this is the first occasion I have addressed the Senate since the advent of the present Government, I add my official congratulations to those that I have already conveyed personally to the new Ministers. Whilst I wish them well, I trust that, in the interests of Australia, their tenure of office will be brief. In the course of this debate, we have had an exhibition in a most vivid form of one of life's contrasts. When honorable senators who now sit on the Government side formed the Opposition, they denounced the Government vociferously for its actions, but now they sit mute. But this is a time when we should chide one another somewhat gently. The difficulties of Ministers are great, and it is apparent that they are new to their work. The criticisms of former Ministers in this chamber and of  Senator Spicer  have been extremely pungent, and remain entirely unanswered 'by government supporters. Whilst I congratulate my friends on the lucidity of their utterances, and their devastating criticism of the budget, the most devastating speech of all was that of that good supporter of the Government, my friend  Senator Darcey.  Like another member of the Opposition, I find it impossible to understand how  Senator Darcey  can support even the budget brought down by his colleagues, in view of the principles that he holds regarding financial policy. I remind him of a little transaction that occurred recently when the Government of Russia, a country which some people in Australia regard as having one of the most up-to-date forms of government in the world, borrowed from the United States of America an amount of £192.000,000. How we are to get on without borrowing I do not know. I regret that, with all his knowledge and eloquence,  Senator Darcey  has not been able to convince me of the soundness of his financial views. When I examine this budget I observe that the honorable senator has not been able to convince the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  or the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  that it is unnecessary for governments to borrow money. 
Nobody recognizes more than I do the difficulties that confront the kindly 
Treasurer of tlie Commonwealth - if any Treasurer can be referred to as kindly - and the fact that he must have held his shapely head and cursed that hour when the Fadden Government was thrown out of office because of the budget presented by it. The fall of the Fadden Government was imminent. It was written in the skies that it would soon go down. One who wears the Napoleonic lock and speaks fair words convinced the independent members in the House of Representatives that the time was ripe ro oust the Fadden Government. With undue haste, and lacking the forethought which characterises some political leaders, the Labour party brought that government down on its budget, and nobody regrets it more than do the members of that party, because most of the criticisms from this side of the chamber are due to the fact that ihe Curtin Government could not adopt tlie Fadden budget. How the present; Ministry would have liked to adopt that budget! The Treasurer had to devise a different financial instrument, and what has he done? 
No man  who  had made the statements conrained in the budget speech should be down-hearted about them, for the principles preached are sound, and are the very principles that were contained in the Fadden budget. We were told what was likely to happen to this country, and what were the further charges that would ha ve to be levied on those who  were  foolish enough to think that they Wouk escape from paying their due portion of the cost of Australia's Avar effort. Looking round for some way of escape from the pitfall into which the haste of his party, in its desire to reach the tart: shop, had led him. the Treasurer said. ;: T. must do something different. I must abandon that sane principle of deferred pay for the returned soldiers. I must jettison it." But the jettisoning of that principle is contrary to the sound principles enunciated by the Treasurer in his budget speech. I regard the Treasurer as holding sound views on finance, but, whilst. the principles preached by him are sound, he cannot give effect to them, because some distinction had to be made between the Fadden budget and that submitted by the Labour party. I have no fault to find with the principles enunciated by the Treasurer, but he has not applied them in the preparation of tlie taxation measures introduced by him in order to implement the budget proposals. 
The probability is that the honorable senator knows a good deal abour that, bur he should not attempt to draw a red herring aero?.? the trail. The present Government has embarked on a policy of heavy taxation, and i? receiving the support of the parties in opposition, but it, will be disappointed with, the results, because it is killing the goose that lays the golden eggs. High taxation defeats its own purpose, as has been shown clearly in the United States of America and many European countries. We hear a. good deal about making  a  total war effort, and frequent mention is made of the national income. I am not sure that any of us fully understands either term. Few persons in the community are able to say how the national income is arrived at. But Ave all know that Australia's Avar expenditure is increasing, and that the sources from which taxes are derived are gradually being contracted. It may be that this legislation is what a golfer would call a " gradual approach " - the landing of the ball on the edge of the green by means of a good mashie shot. The "hole-out" will be when all, irrespective of the size of their incomes, do not make an extra contribution, as in New Zealand and Great Britain. It. may be that the Government thought that it would be unwise suddenly to levy more on persons in receipt nf incomes :above £1,500 a year, but implicit in this document is a broad hint that they are to be hit harder in the future, f am confident that before long the Government will find that the springs are drying up and that it ,vill. have to look to the little fountains lower down. 
I do no intend to discuss this budget from a party viewpoint, because there are times when party political considerations must be set aside and all must work together as a team in the interests of the nation. 
I come now to a small paragraph in the budget speech in which those engaged in rural industries are promised something in the future. For a great many years there have been promises of rural reconstruction, but so far that reconstruction has not taken place. The announced intention of the Government to establish a mortgage bank may also, perhaps, be regarded as a promise to the primary producers. The honorable member for Wimmera  (Mr. Wilson)  probably takes credit to himself for the inclusion of those two paragraphs in the budget speech, but I point out that several hurdles will have to be jumped before a mortgage bank can be established. For many years I have advocated something along these lines, but I realize that lower rates of interest must be the rule before such an institution can be successful. A more astounding proposal has never reached my ears than the statement that the mortgage bank 'will be established by the issue of debentures on the security of the bank of central reserve. Why not use the existing financial institutions, such as the Agricultural Bank of Western Australia, the State Bank of South Australia, the Rural Bank of Victoria, and various other banking institutions throughout the Commonwealth? What need is there to set up another bank which cannot getmoney, unless the Government provides it, at less than the current rate of interest? The only rural bank that the primary producers will get will be a subsidy. 
Recently, a vacancy occurred on the Commonwealth Bank Board through the retirement of  Mr. Drummond,  who has been associated with primary industries all 'his life and is well versed in every aspect of primary production. He knows the requirements of primary producers and his experience is not confined to the better districts but extends into the dry areas of the Commonwealth. First we heard that  Mr. Theodore,  a former Commonwealth Treasure]', was likely to be appointed, but, apparently, the Government lacked the courage to appoint him, notwithstanding his knowledge of finance and his wide experience of Australian primary industries. Not only as a matter of common sense, but also as a matter of law, the Government should have selected to fill the vacancy a man with a wide knowledge of the primary industries of this country. Instead, it selected a  Mr. Taylor,  who, judging by his interview with the press, does not impress me as having the light approach to the high duties of a director of a bank of central reserve - an institution which in effect holds in its hands the financial destinies of this country.  Mr. Taylor  may be an excellent lawyer, distinguished in his profession, but he does not appear to have approached this new responsibility in the earnest spirit which should characterize a man occupying such a position. In a press interview lie is reported to have said that there is no black magic about finance - none whatever. 
The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  knows well that two and two make four, but there are some so-called financial wizards  who would make the total four and a half, or three and a half, if it suited their purpose. According to the press report of the interview with  Mr. Taylor,  that gentleman said that he could not discuss details of his appointment, or his attitude towards current financial problems, until he had conferred with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  and the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley).  He expected to do so within a few days. I admit that the Prime Minister has a distinguished record as a producer of very good leading articles, but I do not knowthat he is particularly well qualified to give advice respecting wheat, sheep, wool, grain, cattle, or other aspects of primary production. The Treasurer is an engineer, and probably is no better acquainted with primary production than is his lea.der. Yet  Mr. Taylor  announced that he must consult with those gentlemen before he could discuss his attitude towards current financial problems. Surely that is an indication that he has  no  proper conception of his duty, or of his responsibility for the safety of that institution upon which the future of every other financial institution in this country depends. The solemn silence That has reigned since  Mr. Taylor's  statement appeared in the press leads me to think that he has seen  Mr. Curtin,  .and that it would be well for us to draw a veil over what happened at the interview. 
Some of them were excellent appointments, and some of them perhaps otherwise. But previous governments never appointed a lawyer to control the destinies of the butter industry, or other primary industries.  Mr. Taylor's  appointment to the Commonwealth Bank Board was unashamedly a political appointment. He is the senior vicepresident of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labour party. 
There is nothing wrong with that.  Mr. Taylor  may be a gentleman and a competent lawyer, but his remarks on his appointment, particularly the levity in which he indulged, do not reveal him in a favorable light. He appears to have no proper regard for the institution on which the whole of the economic life of this country depends. Whatever may he said of the Commonwealth Bank .by way of criticism, the fact remains that upon it the solvency of this country depends. There can be no escape from that situation. 
After saying that he would consult with the Prime Minister and the Treasurer,  Mr. Taylor  related some personal history. Ho did not throw bouquets at himself. Indeed, he was delightfully candid. He said, for instance, that he had not done a great deal at school because he was too much of a larrikin. Is that tlie proper approach to an appointment of such importance? Are statements of that kind calculated to inspire confidence in the institution which he will assist to control ? He then told the public, through the press, that he had been in danger of expulsion on three occasions, once after ho had been convicted at the Ryde Court for playing up in a train. I leave the matter there, with this advice to my friends on the treasury bench, "Do not do these things ". It may be that previous governments made political appointments. But the important point is that it is time that such practices ceased. I admit that I was horrified when the appointment was announced, because it violated the spirit of the law and endangered our primary industries. I do not know what the honorable member for Wimmera, whose vote assisted to put the present Government into office, thinks of the appointment. The Treasurer in his budget speech referred briefly to the Government's banking policy. At a time such as this I do not quarrel with the Government for promulgating regulations for the control of any individual or organization. Whether they be banks, trade unions, or organizations political or otherwise, they should all come within the control of the law. In an effort to guard against inflation in the future, I understand that the Government proposes to compel the private banks to deposit with the Commonwealth Bank their investable surplus funds. That, I believe, is now done under some agreement which has been made with the banks. Whether it be done by agreement or by regulation, I regard it as a proper step because it is the only one that will enable the central reserve bank to check inflation; but the Government must bear in mind that the central reserve bank is also looking for business in competition with the other banks. 
Not at all. It is possible to secure financial accommodation from the Commonwealth Bank as readily as it is from any other financial institution in this country. I suggested to a former Treasurer when he contemplated this method of control that interest should be paid on such deposits or that some provision be made which would prevent the Commonwealth Bank from entering into competition on an unfair basis with other banking institutions with money that really belonged to them. At this critical period in our history when there is a plentiful supply of money owing to the expansion of industry to meet our war needs, it may be necessary to exercise control of the kind proposed by the Government. My friend,  Senator Gibson,  has a saying that plenty of money and plenty of feed will ruin any man. It will be the duty of the Government and the central reserve bank to contract the supply of money so that lavish credits will not be established throughout the length and breadth of the country. The method adopted by the Government to divert lavish spending on luxury goods, some of which would not be regarded as luxuries in ordinary times, will, we trust, bring about the desired result. Honorable senators will find in the published figures of deposits in the savings banks eloquent testimony of the fact that people are husbanding their money in those institutions. They will spend it how and where they please and the Government will be ultimately driven, if this war continues - and it looks like continuing for some considerable time - to adopt a rationing system in this country. Rationing is a form of control that no one likes to impose; but the position must be faced. The Government will have to adopt a. rationing system similar to that in operation in New Zealand, or it will find that its revenues are far short of expectations. 
I should like to make a suggestion which I trust the Ministry will regard as constructive. When I see young men in Melbourne going through their airraid precautions exercises and witness the trial blackouts in Sydney, Melbourne and other places, I think what fools we were not to have made our coastline safe from attack by a policy of naval preparedness. Air-raid precautions will be unnecessary here unless aircraft carriers are permitted to approach close to our shores. At a time like this when we are expending millions of pounds lavishly on the war, I cannot but feel that, had we expended £20/000,000 a little while ago on a naval programme in cooperation with our sister Dominions of Now Zealand and South Africa, we would to-day have had the wherewithal to resist an attack on our coastline, and our people would feel safer in their beds. Active co-operation existed between the previous Government and the Government of New Zealand. I had an opportunity to stay in that dominion for some considerable time whilst I was a member of the Lyons Government. At that time New Zealand, with its 1,500,000 people, was about to commence the erection of a steel-works. The supply of raw materials in the dominion was not in any way comparable with that in Australia; but New Zealand was fortunate in having supplies of alloys which are so valuable to-day in the manufacture of steel used in the production of munitions and other war requirements. Surely there should be a greater measure of co-operation between the two dominions, even if it were only in the nature of a customs union which some people, I fear, view through the eye of a Carmen potato and others through the end of an orange. For God's sake let us drop these petty dissensions, and get closer together. Let us realize that the New Zealanders can make valuable contributions to assist this country just as we can make valuable contributions to assist theirs. Let the 8,500,000 people of the two dominions work together as an economic unit. If we have to make concessions by all means let us make them; New Zealand, in turn, will meet us half way. Let us do everything to foster our relations with the United States of America. If we are to defeat, for all time, the monstrous Nazi movement headed by that inhuman monster, Hitler, every effort should be made to secure the greatest possible co-operation between the English-speaking races throughout the world. Several days ago I read a speech delivered by M.  Poincare  om the part played' by that distinguished Frenchman, General Foch, at the peace conference at Versailles. Among the words he used, so far as I remember them, were these : " I hope that the world will never live to regret the rejection of your advice at Versailles ". General Foch foresaw a part of what would take place if his advice were ignored, but what has happened has been on a much more devastating scale than he in his most despondent moment ever imagined. 
There is a tremendous misunderstanding to-day regarding the new Russian constitution. Many people in this country have not read it, and therefore have no knowledge of affairs in Russia under the new constitution and Stalin's rule. They are astounded to learn that the people of Russia have complete freedom of worship. These huge juggernauts which rise up in times of revolution find their level in the human beings that surround them. I know of no reason why we should not give the fullest aid to Russia. The Russians are fighting the battle of civilization with us, fighting for the freedom which we hold so dear, the freedom which has characterized our people, and which was established at Runnymede at the time of the signing of Magna Charta. The new constitution of the Russian people is more conservative than any we would care to support to-day. The old Mosaic law that he that does not work shall not pat is embedded in it. What have we to fear by aiding Russia? Apart from its intrusion into the politics of various European countries and its attempted intrusion into the politics of the United States of America, what have the Russians done to make us fear them? When the war is over they are likely to wish to live at peace within their own country. After all, we do not interfere in the politics of other countries, and surely there is no necessity for the Russians to interfere in ours. 
There are two matters which I think the Government should regard as of great importance. I say to the Leader of the Senate in all sincerity that it is lamentable that, in time of national emergency and of dire need, this Parliament has no power to prolong its life for a. single day. The Mother of Parliaments and the New Zealand Parliament both have that power, fi- respective of what governm'ent occupies the treasury bench, I shall support any move made to clothe the Parliament with power to lengthen its life for use in time of need. We have only to remember the hurly-burly in Australian politics a little over twelve months ago to realize the disastrous effect of this constitutional inhibition. At that time, when we should have been here doing our utmost on behalf of our country, we were engaged in all the distractions associated with the holding of a general election. I know that there is a feeling in some quarters that we should not approach the British Parliament for an alteration of the Constitution to enable us to prolong the life of the Commonwealth Parliament; but I shall support the endeavours of this or any other Government to secure the necessary power to enable this Sovereign Parliament to prolong its life should the need arise, because I regard such a power as essential. It is a strange commentary on our Constitution that, at a time of war, when the Government is taking to itself unprecedented powers, this Parliament has not the power to prolong its life even for one day. The Leader of the Senate should take up this matter with his Cabinet and endeavour to get something done. Do not let us be for ever talking about it and doing nothing. 
We pride ourselves upon our war effort. In that, respect bouquets are due to the predecessors of Ministers and the heads of departments. Our war effort is going forward, and every Minister is endeavouring to pull his weight. But we must guard against one danger. Do not let us get this problem out of its proper perspective. We have only a small population. We must organize and equip a fighting force; and when we look at what lias been clone in that direction, as well as in the manufacture of munitions and war material, we can pride ourselves upon our achievements. At the same time, however, we must pay due regard to the resources of our man-power. I suggest, therefore, that an  immediate  survey should be made in that direction. A responsible officer of the Government, a man in whom I am sure that all governments have the greatest trust, has told me that this country has only one limit, namely, its physical capacity. I urge the Government to ensure that we shall not go beyond that limit. We must ensure the continuance of industry and trade, because it is from that sphere that we derive the revenue, reduced though it be, required to finance our war effort. However, I can see definite signs of a lack of man-power in many industries. We should take care not to overstretch ourselves in this respect. We should ensure that sufficient men will be a vailable in order to carry on the good work in which the Government is engaged. 
I view with considerable alarm the depredations that are being perpetrated  in  Europe; and I am afraid that the conflict will last for years. At the same time, I have no fears for the future. But we must buckle on our armour and,  if  need be, tighten our belts. "We must hold our heads high and resolve that whatever sacrifices we may be called upon to make we shall make them in the interests of our civilization and superior humanity. We shall not bow to aggression. We must never think of proposals for peace which may emanate from a man who has been guilty of the crimes  of  this leader of death and destruction in Europe. Our people should be informed of those crimes. I shall take an opportunity in the future to address myself on that subject to the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley).  I emphasize that we cannot think of making terms with Hitler. We must fight to the end, and with that object in view we should set about preparing a sound foundation. We must stop our bickerings and party politics. We must stand by Australia and sink our differences for the time being, bitter though the pills may be. It is no pleasure for me to see those in whose political principles I do not believe occupying the treasury bench in this Parliament. But while they are there I, and, I believe, the party to which I belong, will give every assistance to them, because we want the best that they can give to us. We want them to make every possible effort for the preservation of our civilization and way of life. 
 The honorable senator who has just resumed his seat dealt briefly with the man-power position in this country. Whilst all sections of the community appear to be united in the prosecution of our war effort, the fact remains that some sections, against which I hope the Government will take prompt action, are threatening to weaken that effort by advocating conscription of manhood for overseas service and conscription of wealth in this country. That policy is entirely wrong. As  Senator A.  J. McLachlan has just pointed out, our man-power is commencing to dwindle. At the earliest opportunity the Government should disclose to what degree we can afford to continue recruiting tor overseas service. 
I am of the opinion that we may come to that conclusion. In the last war when we had five divisions overseas the cry was for 16,500 reinforcements a month. During that period conscription proposals were defeated on two occasions. To-day, we have four divisions serving overseas. I admit that our present casualties are not to be compared with those which we suffered in the last war; but whilst we have an additional 2,000,000 people in Australia since the conclusion of the last war, the calls on manpower in this war are considerably greater than was the case in 1914-18. We have recruited approximately 200,000 men for the Air Force and the Air Force reserve, 60,000 of whom are serving in the Royal Australian Air Force, and our present naval personnel greatly exceeds our strength in that arm in the last war. Further, thousands of additional men are nowengaged in munitions factories. In these circumstances, can we continue to cry out for more and more men at the risk of seriously depleting our man-power? The possibility exists that we may be attacked at our back door. I admit that we have certain assurances that we shall not lack aid from outside in the event of the war spreading to the Pacific. I urge the Government to make an immediate survey of our resources of man-power in order to ensure that we shall retain sufficienmen in all essential spheres. During the last war we were informed by military experts that a mobile force of 80,000 men. would be sufficient to defend this country effectively under the conditions existing at that time. I believe that to-day one armoured division would provide effective immediate defence in the event of a sudden attack upon this country. 1 can see no reason for continuing the costly circus which is to be witnessed daily in Martin-place in Sydney, and in other capital cities. Such methods are obviously ineffective. It is also apparent that the expenditure incurred in sending recruiting trains all over the country is being  wasted.  Senator Clothier  drew attention to the grave man-power problem which confronts our rural industries. The military authorities refuse to grant temporary exemptions from military service to men who are required to transport wheat to silos. So far as those authorities are concerned the wheat crop can be left to rot in the paddocks. That is happening in the Canowindra district. We also find that military doctors have passed men for service who are blind in one eye or have an artificial limb. 
I cite those instances in order to emphasize the bad effect of our present recruiting methods and military administration on men who are eligible to enlist. Whilst such conditions continue one cannot wonder if many of our eligible men do not enlist. Some people declare that we have unlimited man-power. That is not so. Undoubtedly many eligible men have not offered themselves for service; but an investigation into their circumstances would reveal that many have failed to enlist because of pressing private responsibilities. Most people are inclined to overlook that fact. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from4.46to8 p.m. 

When I obtained leave to continue my remarks earlier to-day I was about to state that the present Government has inherited a legacy of difficulty due to the maladministration of its predecessors in connexion with the fruit-growing industry. I refer particularly to the treatment of some growers of apples in New South Wales, among whom are numbers of returned soldiers from the last war who were settled on the land at heavy cost to the Government of that State. Many of these primary producers have been ruined deliberately by a previous government. When the Apple and Pear Acquisition Scheme was brought in early this year, it was placed under the control of the then Minister for Commerce  (Sir Earle Page),  who passed the responsibility on to the Assistant Minister for Commerce  (Mr. Anthony),  who is one of the principal banana-growers in New South Wales. In appointing a man to operate the scheme in New South Wales,  Mr. Anthony  chose another big banana-grower to be a dictator in the distribution of apples and pears in New South Wales. The man chosen,  Mr. Stevenson,  was supposed to take instructions from a State committee, but he set himself up as the dictator of the apple industry, and took steps to ruin the growers. Early in January of this year a meeting of wholesale and retail dealers in apples was held in Sydney. They were asked to say if they would co-operate with the Government, and 98 distributors in Sydney offered to do so.  Mr. Stevenson,  however, selected only 43 of them, and told the others that they would have no further trade. Some of those were men who had been 30 or 40 years in the trade, and had clients all over Australia. Later,  Mr. Stevenson  reduced the number of distributors still further. On the 8th January the following circular was sent to growers :  - 
Circular to all Registered Growers. 
We shall see as we proceed. A large number of growers forwarded the names of their agents.  Mr. Stevenson  then set about to find loopholes. Later he decreed that no agent should canvass for business under penalty of being debarred from further trading. Some growers in the Batlow, Leeton, Bathurst, Arm id ale and Kentucky districts advised their usual agents that they were despatching their apples to them. When that was reported to  Mr. Stevenson  he debarred those agents from further trading in apples on the ground that they were canvassing, notwithstanding that they had been in the trade for many years, some of thorn as long as 40 years. At a later date the agents were notified that they must not inform growers of the prices received for their fruit in the market. 
The agents were notified by correspondence, and they in turn informed the growers. 
Because of the maladministration of a former government, the unfortunate soldier settlers in the Kentucky districts were told that their fruit was not required, and must be destroyed. 
Is my statement denied ? 
-Fruit from that district was carted onlorries to the station of the wealthy Dangar family, where it was fed to pigs. The board was charged2d. a case for cartage. 
It was fruit which would have been welcomed in the western districts of the State. 
The fruit was similar to that which is offered for sale in Sydney to-day. 
Both  Mr. Anthony  and  Mr. Stevenson  are bananagrowers, and it was to their interest to ensure that there was a shortage of apples, so that bananas would bring a high price, as. indeed, they have done this year. At a rime when apples were being offered for sale at l½d. or 2d. each, excellent bananas were available at eighteen for 6d. That action cost the Commonwealth £1,400,000 last year. The loss could have been reduced considerably by proper administration. Throughout a portion of New South Wales people could not get apples. Indeed, they cannot be obtained cheaply to-day. No experienced man would have put the variety of apples into cold stores as was done with thousands of cases throughout Australia this year, with the result that when taken out of cold storage practically half of the apples were useless, and retailers were forced to repack the fruit before leaving the markets. In normal years a retailer was able to buy the product of certain growers, but  Mr. Stevenson  denied to growers the right to use their own registered number on cases containing their fruit. 
There was no need for such action. Previously, retailers could rely on getting good quality fruit if they bought the product from reliable growers, but to-day they do not know what they are getting.  Mr. H.  V. Smith who is associated with the New South Wales committee and the Apple and Pear Marketing Board is also associated with the Batlow Cooperative Company, an organization of growers which is supposed to be representative of those controlling the packing sheds throughout New South Wales. However, its offices are situated in the same building as the Bananagrowers Association, and the telephone number of both organizations is the same. 
This year the apple crop totalled about 15,000,000 cases compared with approximately 6,000,000 cases last year. The following table shows the quantities supplied to a number of agents last year when the season was normal, and this year when there was a record surplus : - l.'h ere has been a regular " racket " in the distribution of apples in Sydney this year. There is a registered concern in Sydney named J. Holmes Proprietary Limited, the shareholders of which arc practically identical with the shareholders in another concern called the Commonwealth Fruit and Produce Company Proprietary Limited. This year if. Holmes Proprietary Limited received 79,473 cases and the Commonwealth Fruit and Produce Company Proprietary Limited received 19,059 cases, or a total of 98,532 cases, although the normal purchases of those companies were fewer than. 40,000 cases per annum. Silk Brothers Interstate Traders Limited obtained 4S,27S cases, although in a normal year they bought only 15,000 cases. Another firm, L. T. Locke, got 39,051 cases, although their normal supply was about 22,000 cases.  Mr. .]'.  Jenkins, another wholesale fruiterer, whose normal trade was 4.9,000 oases, was able to secure S2,000 case?. J. Holmes Proprietary Limited and the Commonwealth Fruit and Produce Company Proprietary Limited are the controllers of a subsidiary company known as the Apex Company, which is not registered. During the last two months apples bought from the board by J. Holmes Proprietary Limited and the 
Commonwealth  Fruit and Produce Company Proprietary Limited at from 8s. to 9s. a case were passed over to the Apex Company, which in turn sold them to retailers at 24s. a case. No receipts were given for these sales. The committee which inquired into the apple and pear industry should have included in its report a recommendation that a receipt should be issued for every case of fruit sold in the market and that a copy of the receipt should be sent to the board so that all sales may be traced.  No  record is kept and no receipts are issued in respect of fruit sold for cash in the metropolitan fruit markets to-day. That undesirable practice has been continued for the last 20 years. The operations of the Apple and Pear Board this year have cost, the taxpayers of this country approximately £1,400,000; and although  there  has been a steady demand for apples most of them have been left to rot on the ground. In The city of Sydney to-day it is impossible to buy an apple much larger than a billiards ball for less than 2d. Apples of larger size are sold in suburban shops for  Si-&lt;).  each and in some city shops for 4d. each. I.n a year of heavy crops such price? are scandalous.  Mr. Stevenson  collaborates with firms and individuals such as J. Holmes Proprietary Limited,  Mr. J.  Jenkins, Silk Brothers Interstate Traders Limited and L. T. Locke and gives them concessions that are denied to reputable dealers. Last week he went to Melbourne, probably to consult with  Mr. Mills,  the chief officer of the board. After the last war the State governments incurred great expense in establishing returned soldiers in the fruitgrowing industry. With the assistance of r llc' State Departments of Agriculture these settlers were able to make a reasonably good living until the war cut off their export markets. To-day. however, largely a.= the result of the operations of the Apple and Pear Board they have been forced to accept Stale relief. A grower with a wife and two children receives £6 10s. a. month from the State govern.ment and a grower with a wife and one child receives £5 10s. a month. Had these  men been permitted to sell their fruit on the open market- -and the demand for fruit all over the country is very great - they would not have become a charge upon the State. I trust that this Government will see that the business of the Apple and Pear Board is so conducted in future that the enormous loss incurred this year will not be repeated. Provision should be made to acquire the surplus crop only by the payment to the growers of 2s.6d.a case at the tree and the remainder of the crop through traders in the ordinary way. Had that been done, the loss on the acquisition scheme this year would have been considerably reduced. 
I propose now to discuss the important subject of the additional excise of 3d. a gallon imposed on beer. In New South Wales, as in all other States of the Commonwealth, breweries are conducted by monopolies, joist as are most of the big industries in Australia to-day, particularly the war industries. According to the  Commonwealth Year-Book,  the total quantity of beer and stout brewed in New South Wales in 1937-38 was 31,630,132 gallons. The additional excise of 3d. a gallon on that production would yield £395,376. 
Sena tor ARTHUR. - No, but I object to this additional impost being passed on to the consuming public. 
They did so on two other occasions when the excise was increased. It is reasonable to suppose that the production of beer has increased since 1937-38, but no later figures are available. I suggest that, of the additional excise of £395,376, Tooth and Company Limited will pay £250,000 and Tooheys Limited will pay £140,000. The profits earned by both of these concerns are so great that they could well afford to bear this additional impost. 
It is difficult to obtain a copy of the balance-sheet published by Tooth and Company Limited. The balance-sheet presented to the Registrar-General by that company is a fake. The Commonwealth should draw up a uniform balance-sheet to be presented by all companies and no large number of items should be permitted to be aggregated. The profit and loss account issued by Tooth and Company Limited contains the following item: - "Gross profit on trading, and rents and interest, after making provision for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation and contingencies, £2,251,584". It would be interesting to know what amount is written off for depreciation in an undertaking of that kind. The wealthy brewing interests have a monopoly not only over the brewing of beer, but also over its distribution. Hotels of an aggregate value of £11,000,000 are owned by brewing interests in Australia. In its published statements, Tooth and Company Limited do not disclose the value of hotels which they own and control. 
Sena tor ARTHUR. - Approximately £870,000 was disclosed. One item in the balance-sheet published by that company under the heading" Assets " reads :  - "Breweries, freeholds and leasehold properties, at or under cost, plant, machinery, rolling stockand motor vehicles, at cost, less depreciation, £6,706,279 ". Freeholds and leasehold properties obviously consist of hotels and breweries. For some reason best known to the company, the total value of the hotels owned by it is not disclosed. The company usually leases its hotels for a period of three years at a rental adjusted to return the capital value of the property every twenty years. The brewery authorities insist that the agreement entered into by the lessee shall contain a provision whereby the lessee is obliged to keep the property in repair and in good condition at his expense. The general manager of that company has done much travelling to Canberra and Melbourne since the budget was introduced. I urge the Government to prevent that company and similar concerns from passing any further increases of excise on beer on to the public. It passed on the first increase of excise duty by compelling hotel-keepers in New South Wales to use smaller glasses. The cost of effecting that change amounted to from £50 to £100. That expenditure represented an excellent subsidy to the glass combine. The increase of 3d. of excise duty should be borne equally by the hotel-keepers and the brewers. The Government should not allow the price of draught beer to be increased, although it might be fair to allow an increase of Id. a bottle of the price of bottled beer. Tooth and Company Limited have also increased the price of CO2 gas by ls. per cylinder, thus obliging hotel-keepers to pay on the average an additional amount of £3 or £4 a week for that gas which is a by-product of the brewery. The hotelkeeper must also pay a deposit of £1 on each gas cylinder. We can imagine, therefore, the dead money which Tooth and Company Limited is holding to-day, even in respect of that small item. Whilst breweries in New South Wales do not disclose the value of their hotel properties, that information is given by similar companies in Victoria under the Victorian Company law. In that State, Carlton and United Bireweries Limited, in 1939, held properties valued at £1,871,281, and tlie Castlemaine Perkins Brewery Company Limited held similar properties valued at £1,512,162. In 1939 Tooth and Company Limited made a net profit of £855,709 and paid a dividend at the rate of 12 per cent. Its assets in that year were valued at £9,134,288, and its paid-up capita] was £6,182,657. It is, therefore, one of the largest public companies in Australia. How has it been built up ? In 1910 its capital was £900,000, but since that year it has made six issues of bonus shares to the value of £2,150,000. Thus the rate of dividend of 12 per cent, in 1.939 was actually a rate of 33 per cent, upon the original capital. Yet we find some honorable senators opposite appealing on behalf of poor widows because the Government proposes to increase the tax on shareholders in these big companies. Let me now deal with Tooheys Limited,  In  1940 that company paid a dividend at the rate of 9 per cent., and its assets were valued at £4,117,615. In Western Australia Swan Brewery Company Limited paid a dividend of 25 per cent., its assets being valued at £1,611,332. Through Colonel H. E. Cohen, a gentleman who resides in Victoria, that company is linked with the metal monopoly in Melbourne. 
That gentleman is associated with the Electrolytic Zinc Company Limited and Zinc Investments. The firms comprising Carlton and United Breweries Limited include Carlton Brewery Limited, Melbourne, Shamrock Brewing Company Limited, Victoria Brewery, Foster Brewing Company Limited, and Castlemaine Brewery Company Limited. The Government should ensure that the breweries do not pass increases of excise on to the public. They are making enormous profits because they enjoy a monopoly of brewing and distribution. Yesterday the report of the royal commissioner who inquired into the expenditure of secret funds was tabled in the Senate. That report contained certain findings against the  president  of the Coal Miners Federation,  Mr. Nelson.  Personally, I disagree with the report. The evidence submitted at that inquiry would not hold in a court of law in any part of the British Empire. However, I am reminded that not so long ago it was a common thing in New South Wales to pick a particular judge,  Mr. Justice  Pring, and to appoint a certain barrister,  Mr. Lamb,  to conduct inquiries into any matter in which the interests of the Nationalist party, which is now known as the United Australia party, were involved. 
I take this opportunity to give to the Senate some details concerning the operations of companies associated with the coal monopoly to which honorable senators opposite made a present of £S00,000 when they forced the Government to accept an amendment to the War-time (Company) Tax Bill which was considered in this chamber yesterday. 
I remind the honorable senator that he is not in order in referring to a debate which has taken place in the current session. 
Limited holds slightly less than half of the shares in the same company. Huddart Parker Limited controls three mines, Hebburn No. 1 and Hebburn No. 2, through Hebburn Limited, and the Metropolitan mines through the Metropolitan Coal Company. Huddart Parker Limited owns 400,000 shares in Hebburn Limited and 105,500 of the 120,000 shares in the Metropolitan Coal Company, through which Hebburn Limited is linked with the Broken Hill Proprietary Company  Limited, as it owns one-third of the shares in Broken Hill Proprietary Collieries Limited. I point out that the Hebburn No. 1 mine also figured prominently in the miners' holiday pay dispute. This mine produced in 222 working days 2,221,000 tons of coal on which an amount of £5,565 was collected from consumers at the rate of 6d. a ton to reimburse the company in respect of holiday pay for their employees. We now find, however, that it is proposed to pay the men only for two and one-half days, which will cost £1,250, leaving the owners a cash balance of £4,305. Monopolist interests in New South Wales will benefit considerably from legislation passed by the previous Government, and a thorough examination should be made of the matter. Let us consider for a moment three of Australia's biggest industries, namely, sugar, banking and brewing. We find that these industries are controlled by the individuals whom, as I have already said, have the economic structure of New South Wales in their hands. The individuals, and the total capital of the companies in which they are interested are as f  follows  :- -Fairfax family £20,480,000 ;  Mr. R  W. Gillespie, £2,510,000;  Mr. E.  B. Knox, £17,119,000;  Mr. E.  J. A. Massie, £15,902,000;  Sir Frederick  Tout, £13,744,000;  Sir E.  King, £1,469,000;  Sir Mark  Sheldon, £4,495,000. Then we come to some titled gentlemen whose interests include shipping, coal and gas -  Sir Samuel  Cohen, £11,283,000;  Sir Henry  Braddon, £9,540,000;  Mr. O.  E. Friend, £7,083,000;  Sir John  Butters - one time Chief Commissioner of the Federal Capital Commission - £5,975,000 ; and  Colonel A.  Spain, £4,569,000. There are also  Mr. A.  Howard Smith, £4,941,000;  Mr. James  Burns, £3,749,000. Undoubtedly, a list such as this is wearisome to honorable senators, but in view of the exigencies of the present situation, perhaps it is advisable that we should explore the ramifications of various interlocked directorates of monopolies in this country and the capital they control. I believe that many of these people are substantial contributors to the campaign funds of the political party represented by honorable senators opposite. The list continues: -  Mr. T.  H. Kelly, £15,163,000;  Mr.. O.  Phillips, £11,815,000;  Mr. G.  P. Hughes, £8,1S4,000;  Mr. M.  Mcllwraith, £9,012,000;  Mr. G.  B. Love, £9,002,000;  Mr. C.  A. Sinclair, £8,917,000;  Sir Thomas  Buckland, £850,000 ;  Sir Norman  Kater, £11,950,000 ;  Sir Philip  Goldfinch. £11,700,000;  Sir Donald  Cameron, of Royal Australian Air Force recruiting fame, £4,739,000;  Sir Herbert  Gepp, £3,113,000;  Sir "Walter  Carpenter, £958,000 ;  Sir A.  Howie, £1,519,000 ;  Sir Graham  Waddell, £2,991,000 ; The Honorable T. Armstrong, £2,162,000; and the Honorable T. A. J. Playfair, £5,440,000. , / L last-mentioned is associated with the inner group or secret consultative council of the United Australia party in Sydney. There are approximately 45 big companies in New South Wales whose combined capital amounts to £1.75,000,000. To-day, most of them are making exorbitant profits, notwithstanding the fact that their balance-sheets show only 7 per cent, or 8 per cent. The real tost to apply is the original capital invested. Take, for instance, the history of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. Broken Hill was discovered a century ago by Rasp and was described as " a heap of mullock ". Samples of ore were taken to Adelaide for testing purposes and the richness of the Broken Hill mineral deposits was revealed. Ever since the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was formed in 1885 to exploit these vast metal deposits its capital has been consistently watered year after year, and dividends have been paid on that watered capital. Prior to the last war, the capital of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was approximately £800,000, and in Mardi, 1919, bonus shares to the value of £1,500,000 were issued from profits made during the war. A further issue of bonus shares was made in 1935, and then in 1939, the  Chairman  of Directors,  Mr. John  Darling, informed shareholders that there would be a further bonus issue in 1940 of 60 shares for every 100 shares held. The money involved was £4,000,000. To-day the' capital of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is more than £11,000,000, and the company controls scores and scores of subsidiary undertakings. Its interests include Australian Iron and Steel Limited, at Port Kembla, which has a capital of £5,700,000 and owns five coal-mines; the Southern Portland Cement Limited; Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited, which has a capital of £5,031,175 ; the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Proprietary Limited, which is building aircraft for the Commonwealth; the Titan Nail and Wire Proprietary Limited ; the Commonwealth Rolling Mills Proprietary Limited; the Commonwealth Steel Company Limited, which is associated with Vickers; B.H.P. By-products Proprietary Limited ; Rylands Brothers (Australia) Proprietary Limited; Lysaght Brothers and Company Proprietary Limited; Lysaghts Newcastle Works Proprietary Limited; B.H.P. Collieries Proprietary Limited, which owns four coal-mines; the Australian Wire Rope Works Proprietary Limited; British Jute Mills (Australia) Proprietary Limited. In addition, Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited owns eight ships. One of the outstanding men in the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited is  Mr. Essington  Lewis, who is now doing a good job in connexion with munitions. He has more than 20,000 shares in Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, the activities of which are now being extended to shipbuilding, aircraft production, magnesium production and the manufacture of tinned plate and chemicals. 
I have no intention of abusing the: Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited. I am merely giving the Senate facts in relation to that concern, which no doubt are displeasing to the members of the Opposition, but even more displeasing would be a revelation of the interlocking of company directorates in Victoria and their association with large concerns in Great Britain. 1 refer to theRobertson group and the Baillieu group. The Government should take a stand in regard to monopolies. Octopus-like organizations such as the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited have been making exorbitant profits. In 191.5 and 1916- during the last war - the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited made a profit of 50 per cent. in each year, which was the foundation of the 1,500,000 bonus shares issued to shareholders at a later stage. In 1933, the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited endeavoured to establish the tinned plate industry in Australia, hut under the Ottawa Agreement that could not he done. When that company first proposed to take steps, the  president  of theSouth Wales Tin Corporation was brought to Australia. When he arrived, he came first to Canberra and asked the Government not to allow the establishment of the tinned plate industry in this country as it would be contrary to the terms of the Ottawa Agreement. Two years ago,  Mr. John  Darling in his annual report mentioned the possibility of establishing the industry at Whyalla in South Australia, and said that a start had already been made on the provision of a water supply to that centre. 
SenatorSpicer. - The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited has done a good job at Whyalla. 
Government line of steamers to that convicted criminal Lord Kylsant, who has not yet paid for the ships. Our primary producers are crying out for shipping space, but the vessels are not available despite the fact that they should have been built years ago. The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited will also have a monopoly of the tinned plate industry in South. Australia. Had it not been for the actions of the previous Government, tinned plate, which is a vital war requirement, would have been available in this country years ago. 
The budget proposals of the Government are to be commended by all good citizens of Australia, who must recognize that the measures by which the necessary revenue is to be obtained offers the only solution of our financial problems in the present circumstances. My only regret is that full use is not to be made of the credit resources of the nation through the medium of the Commonwealth Bank, in accordance with the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems. I believe that the private banking system is of no use to the nation in time of war. Every private bank in the British Empire closed its doors in 1914, except the Commonwealth Bank, and even the Bank of England was shut for two days. If I desired to transfer an account from a suburban branch of, say, the Bank of New South Wales or the Commercial Bank to the Commonwealth Bank, I should be required to obtain the permission of the branch manager of the private bank. For several years persons dealing with private banks have had to obtain permission to open an account with the Commonwealth Bank. Persons with accounts in private banks have been refused permission to open accounts with the Commonwealth Bank, and in many instances have been told to do their business with the private banks. 
I deprecate the derogatory remarks that have been made in this chamber regarding a recent appointment to the board of directors of the Commonwealth Bank. Surely it is time new blood was introduced into that personnel of that board.  Mr. Drummond,  who recently resigned from the board, represented some of the combines, such as the pastoral combine. 
Amongst a number of more or less misleading statements,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan said that honorable senators on this side were dumb. I assure him that we do not intend to be dumb. We intend to exercise our rights under the Standing Orders, and we shall submit, on behalf of the Government, a case which cannot easily be disposed of by the Opposition.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan went on to say that action, rather than words, was required. First he complained that honorable senators on this side were not talking, and afterwards he claimed that they were saying too much. When a senator of his experience speaks in such terms, we wonder whether he means what he says, or knows what he is talking about. He had some scathing things to say about the appointment of  Mr. Taylor  to the Commonwealth Bank Board. I listened to him carefully and he proceeded to judge  Mr. Taylor  on a statement in a newspaper report which may, or may not, be true. 
He was under no obligation to deny it, if he did not wish to do so. Often I do not take the trouble to refute stupid or misleading statements made concerning me by my opponents. 
I am referring to statements made by men like the honorable senator. It is not worth while to take notice of every dog that barks.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan, who has had a legal training, would impress one with his uncontaminated altruism, and of a desire to do justice by his fellow men. Yet almost in the next breath he proceeded to condemn  Mr. Taylor  on a statement contained in a newspaper report which may or may not be true. I wonder what the honorable senator would say if he were charged in a court of law in respect of a statement based on a newspaper report. I can imagine how indignant he would be, and how emphatically he would speak against the injustice of an attempt to judge him on  ex parte  evidence. He had nothing to say about the appointment of  Mr. J.  H. Ashton to the Commonwealth Bank Board on the 29th August, 1939. That gentleman happens to be only a grazier.  His  only qualifications for appointment are that he is the son of a rich father, an excellent polo player and a Palm Beach celebrity. We did not hear the honorable gentleman say anything against this man, who has had no previous experience of banking and apparently has had nothing to do with the conduct of business on modern lines. He was apparently ignorant of economics and a mere neophyte; but because  Mr. Taylor  happens to be the nominee of a Labour Government, honorable gentlemen opposite regard his appointment in a totally different light. They cannot rise superior to their political bias, and would not, by direct statement, innuendo or implication, condemn  Mr. Taylor  as a mere ignoramus. We on this side are expected to take such honorable gentlemen seriously. Personally I do not regard men who have had experience as bankers as being any more able than the average business man. At best they are only expert bookkeepers. A man may be an able bookkeeper, but know nothing about economics. Most bankers in Australia fall within that category. 
I knew bini very well. He was an astute business man, but I should not say that he had a working knowledge of economics. 
Yes ; he had a strong political bias. 
Hp to 1930 the private banks managed their businesses in the usual way, but in that year they were confronted by a problem that was new to most of them, and they called in  the  assistance of university professors. Since then those professors have 'been at the elbows of those controlling bankers, and have constantly advised them. That indicates to me that, men who are classed as able bankers are merely expert bookkeepers. When faced with economic conditions  similar  to those confronting Australia to-day, when the national debt is increasing and when governments have to raise revenue to an amount previously thought to be beyond the range of possibility, the banks enlist, the services of professors of economics. I consider that  Mr. Taylor  has qualifications equal to those of any other member of the Commonwealth Bank Board, and superior to those of .some of them, particularly  Mr. Ashton,  the last appointee of the Menzies Government. 
During this debate 1 had the temerity to interject while honorable senators opposite were speaking. In case I may be misunderstood I wish to make it clear that I do not interject in order to harass any honorable senator, but for the purpose of obtaining, if possible, admissions which I can use later in debate. I should not like it to be thought that my interjections are in any way personal. If results could be obtained by being personal the position would perhaps be different, but results cannot be secured in that way; they can be obtained only by arguing a problem on its merits to the best of one's ability. If a man is stating I lis case, and, by interjecting, his opponents can obtain an admission, that is a perfectly legitimate thing to do. I do not object to that at all. If I attempt to put up a case on behalf of the Government of which I am a member, and cannot submit a better case than that put forward by my opponents, I should take a back seat. I do not object to any question that is relevant to the subject under discussion being asked during a debate. I obtained a. number of admissions from  Senator Spicer,  the first of which is that he believes in equality of sacrifice. Judging by the subsequent remarks of the honorable senator, I assume that he meant equality of financial sacrifice. He then went on to say that his conception of equality of sacrifice was that all mustbe taxed ls. in the fi. 
The honorable senator now seeks to qualify his statement, but I do not remember him making any such qualification during his speech. He will remember that I interjected repeatedly, " What about the basic wage-earner?", and that he replied, " All should be taxed ". The honorable senator receives a parliamentary allowance of approximately £20 a week, whereas an old-age pensioner receives about 22s. a week. If both pay ls. in the £1, the honorable senator would pay fi to about ls. paid by the pensioner. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown).  - It. will be competent for the. honorable senator to make a personal explanation when  Senator Cameron  has concluded his speech if he considers that he has been misrepresented. 
While  Senator Spicer  was addressing the Senate I repeatedly directed his attention to the position of the worker on the basic wage, and, if my memory serves me correctly, be said all should pay ls. in the fi. I consider that I am right in assuming that his conception of equality of sacrifice in a financial sense is that if a basic wageearner has to pay ls. income tax, and the honorable senator is taxed ls. also, that represents equality of sacrifice. Or we may go further and say that if two persons receiving respectively fi and £20 a week were left, with 10s. a week and £10 a week respectively, their sacrifice would be equal. That is the so-called equality of sacrifice which I am. confident that honorable senators opposite are seeking to establish in the minds of the people. 
I have in mind the vindictive opposition by honorable senators opposite to certain proposals for raising more money which would still have left the people whom the honorable senator represents with more than sufficient to live on. I am sensible of that opposition, and. therefore, L am certain that, I am right. If there is to be equality of sacrifice, there must be equality of income. If the worker on the basic wage is doinghis best for the basic wage; if the man fighting in the front line overseas is doing his best for the amount that he receives; if all workers in munitions factories, mines and other industries are doing their best for the wages that they receive; the honorable senator cannot claim to be making an equal sacrifice if he is not. prepared to do his best under the same conditions, and at the same rates of pay. Honorable senators opposite vehemently oppose additional taxes being placed on companies, and on persons in receipt of big incomes, although they know that other Australians are doing their best despite the fact that they receive a miserable pitta nce in comparison with the incomes that they themselves receive. When the honorable senator's claim that he believes in equality of sacrifice is analysed in the light of his subsequent remarks it is clear that he does not mean what he says. 
The honorable senator prefers to pose in the reflected glory of the men in the factories and in the front lines who are doing their best for a miserable pittance compared with what he himself receives. 
Another admission which I obtained from  Senator Spicer  was that the only satisfactory system of taxing is one which ensures that every person in the community pays taxes in accordance with his ability to pay. 
I shall show that it is not inconsistent. This is a general statement rather than a specific one. It is a statement which an astute man may make when he wishes to create the impression that he means something entirely different from what he does in fact mean. If every one paid taxes in accordance with his ability to pay,  Senator Spicer  and myself would  be  forced down to the basic wage; or, as I have said on other occasions, we should have to submit to our incomes being reduced to £500 a year before anyone receiving less than £500 a year was taxed. Throughout the whole field of taxation the worker on the basic wage pays a great deal more in proportion to his income than is paid by a person receiving more than the basic wage.For instance, should  Senator Spicer  and a girl employed in a factory board a Melbourne tram and each pay a fare of 3d. to the conductor, the amount paid by the girl would represent a great deal more in proportion to her income than it would in the case of  Senator Spicer.  In every direction the person whose income is less than £500 pays considerably more in proportion to his income than is paid by persons in receipt of more than that amount. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Pursuant to statute, I lay on the table the following paper: - 
National SecurityAct - National Security (War-time Banking Control) Regulations -Statutory Rules1941, No. 272. 
These regulations give effect to the Government's decision, as outlined in the financial statement of the 29th October, to bring the operations of the trading banks under effective control. The regulations carry out certain recommendations of the Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems and make other provisions to meet present conditions of war finance. The Government had conferences with the representatives  of  the trading banks and the Commonwealth Rank before the details of the regulations were finally settled. An exemption from the regulations is being granted for two months to all institutions - other than the private banks specified in the regulations - which are or may appear to be carrying on in Australia the business of banking. This exemption will cover the Launceston and Hobart Saving Banks, also pastoral companies and other institutions which carry on some banking functions. This temporary exemption will give time for inquiry and consideration as to whether amy of these institutions should be brought within the regulations. 
 I move - 
That the bill be  now  rend ;i second time. 
This bill gives effect to the Government's proposal to obtain an additional £500,000 revenue from land tax by imposing a super tax of 20 per cent, in those cases where the taxable unimproved value of the taxpayer's land exceeds £20,000. Honorable senators are aware that the  law  allows  to  resident taxpayers an exemption of £5,000 in arriving at the taxable value of their land so that a resident would need to own land of  an unimproved  value of £25,000 before he would become liable to this additional  rax.  As absentees do not receive the exemption enjoyed by residents, they will be liable  to  pay super  tax  when the unimproved value of the land exceeds £20,000. In order to remove any anomaly which would arise  in  those cases where the taxable unimproved value  of  a taxpayer's land was just over the taxable value  of  £20,000, the incidence  of  the super tax has been graduated by providing that  it  shall not exceed 1 per cent,  of  the taxable value in excess of £20,000. For example, if the taxable value of the taxpayer's land is £21,000, the super tax would be 1 per cent, of £1,000, or £10. When, however, the taxable value reaches £24,S00, the full super tax of 20 per cent, thereafter becomes payable. 
When the Government was surveying the various avenues available for increasing the revenues, it recalled vividly the very substantial remissions which the payers of land tax in Australia 'has enjoyed over the past thirteen years and it will, I arn sure, be interesting to honorable senators if I recount the history of these remissions. The reductions commenced in 1927-2S, when the basic 1914-15 rates were reduced by 10 per cent. This reduction was maintained until 1932-33, when they were reduced by a further 33$ per cent., making a total reduction of the 1914-15 rates of 40 per cent. The following year, a 50 per cent, reduction was substituted for the 33$ per cent, granted in the preceding year, so that for 1933-34 the rates of tax operating were only 45 per cent, of the basic 1914-15 rate. The reduced, rates were continued for the next five years until. 193S-39, when they were increased by 11.1 per cent., bringing them up to just one-half of the rates which  Ave  re in operation in 1914-15. These reduced rates were applied also in 1939-40. but last year,  when  the previous Government was faced with a huge  increase  of war expenditure, it doubled the rates and by doing so restored the basic rs tes of 1914-15. The actual money value of the remissions I have referred to is over £13,000.000. and as 75 per cent, of the land tax is paid in respect of city lands and only 25 per cent, in respect of country lands, honorable senators  Wl  realize that the greatest benefit from these remissions has been enjoyed by the wealthy companies and individuals who own city properties. In view of the very generous remissions which the land.1 taxpayers of Australia have enjoyed over the past thirteen years, the Government considers that they .can now fairly be called upon to make an extra contribution towards the defence of this country and of their own land holdings. This is not the first occasion on  which  the land tax rates have been increased beyond the basic 1914-35 rates as, at the conclusion of the  war of 1914-1S, tlie rates were  increased  by 20 per cent, without any exemption in respect of holdings below a taxable value of £20,000 such as is contained in this bill. The Government's decision that the super tax shall apply only where the taxable value of. the taxpayer's land exceeds £20,000 will mean that approximately 70 per cent, of the total taxable value of country lands will escape this additional impost so that the tax will fall only lightly upon the primary industries of Australia. 
I do not intend to oppose the passage of this bill. The Government having made up its mind in the matter of the taxes to be imposed, has to accept full responsibility for adding this new impost which will bear heavily on many people. 
.- The Minister in his second-reading speech said that 75 per cent, of the land tax is paid in respect of city lands; but f point out that it will not be paid by the owners of land on which big city emporiums and the like are erected but by the men and women who purchase goods sold, by them. This is but another tax on people who cannot afford to pay. There are many other ways of raising the necessary revenues besides imposing a land tax which inevitably must he passed on. The owners of big city establishments will undoubtedly pass it on to the public, despite any attempts made by the Prices Commissioner to prevent them from doing so. 
Those who own big city properties will not pay the tax; someone else will have to pay it for them. The primary producers in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia and, to a. lesser extent, those in Queensland, where the leasehold system largely prevails, will 'be called upon to bear the unjust hurden of this tax. It will hit hardest those who hold big properties, particularly pastoral companies regardless of what bad seasons may come their way or what mortgages they have on their properties. This bill proposes to impose a direct tax on the primary producers' capital. It will not affect the holders of large properties in the cities. 
Just as do the big business emporiums. Whilst I do not intend to vote against the bill, the Government is unwise in -bringing in legislation of this kind which will affect only certain sections of the community. 
.- I should like the Minister to elaborate some of the statements which he made in his second-reading speech. In the concluding portion of his remarks he said that 75 per cent, of the land tax is paid in respect of city lands and only 25 per cent, in respect of country lands. I presume that that is correct. Later in his speech he said that approximately 70 per cent, of the total taxable value of country lands will escape this additional impost. I have no desire to lay myself open to the charge of having opposed the Government's proposals to raise the revenue with which to prosecute the Avar; but 1 should like to ensure that the additional taxation required to meet the Government's heavy commitments is spread over the community on an equitable basis. 
The concluding portion of the Minister's second-reading speech is quite lucid. What he desired to point out was that, as the unimproved value of holdings in tlie country does not in many instances amount to £20,000, approximately 75 per cent, of the country lands will escape this tax. Although 1 do not intend to oppose this bill, I have always regarded a tax on capital as a most dangerous and diabolical way of securing revenue for the Crown. 
Had the honorable senator the wit to understand the  point  I am endeavouring to make, he will realize that I am saying that a tax on capital is unwise. During and immediately after the depression of 1930-31, the reports issued by the Commissioner of Taxation showed that some of the producers of the best stud flocks in this country had to approach t he Hardship Board for relief. In cases in which this tax has been imposed upon men who really had no income it has amounted to a levy upon capital. No account was taken of their circumstances. They were placed in the humiliating position of being obliged to approach the Hardship Board in order to obtain relief. This kind of taxation is wrong in principle. Insofar as it affects owners of land in the country, it is iniquitous. As a member of the previous Government, 1 was more or less obliged to subscribe to this tax, or at least to sit quiescent when it was under consideration in this chamber. I realize that the Government must have the revenue it requires; but it is high time that we left this class of tax entirely to the States, and took steps to review our taxation methods generally with a view to backing them with worthy principles. This tax on land is mere confiscation. 
.  - I regret that the Government has seen fit to increase the rate of land rax. I admit that I was a member of the previous Government which, last year, increased the rate of this tax. That action in itself indicates that the party to which I belong is not entirely opposed to the principle of land tax. However, (here is a limit beyond which it will be dangerous to go in imposing a tax of this kind. I was interested to hear the Minister suggest that the bulk of this impost will fall upon the large city landholders. It seems to me that the Government has very grave doubts about the wisdom of this impost, and, consequently, has done its best to create the impression among the people who will actually be obliged to bear it that it will be borne by the wealthy landholders. It will, in fact, be borne by a number of landholders who are anything but wealthy. In normal times, when all kinds of taxes generally were less severe than they are to-day, the country landholder found it almost impossible to build up reserves in order to tide him over a bad period. In view of all of the additional imposts which have now been placed upon him, directly and indirectly, it will be impossible for him to try to build up such a reserve and, at the same time, meet this tax. Consequently, this impost will in effect be a levy upon his capital. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are opposed to capital levies in any form whatever. At the same time, certain honorable senators opposite have implied that they are in favour of that form of taxation. It must be admitted that the majority of city landholders who will be called upon to pay this tax will, as  Senator Gibson  has pointed out, be able to pass it on. They have passed it on in the past, and naturally they will find ways and means of passing on this increase. Consequently, it will not fall nearly so heavily upon them as upon the primary producer. I warn the Minister that the guile ho displayed this evening in endeavouring to camouflage the effect of this tax insofar as country landholders are concerned will not prove effective. Those people know that they will have to foot the bill. I repeat that they are not in a position to bear this extra impost. Indeed, this form of tax, more than any other, will tend to dry up the pool from which this, and future governments, will be obliged to derive revenue in the years to come. As this is part of the general financial proposals of the Government, we, on thus side, will not oppose the measure. Certainly, we have criticized it just as we have criticized other measures; and I am glad to know that in several instances the Government has recognized the wisdom of our criticism, and has agreed to our suggestions. I sincerely hope, therefore, that it will not only refrain from further increasing this tax, but will also accept the earliest opportunity to reduce it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
. This afternoon,  Senator A.  J. McLachlan declared that the English-speaking nations should get together in this crisis. I point out that an association has already appeared in this country which is moving in that direction. However, I should like to warn honorable senators against that movement which is known as Federal Union. An advocate of the movement, which originated in the United States of America, visited Australia, early this year, and complaints were made to the Attorney-General  (Dr. Evatt)  that he was really a fifth columnist. I give the following details about this movement: - 
Federal Union is a scheme hatched in America and is designed, under the cover of war conditions, to bring the British Empire under the complete control of international finance. 

 Sir Victor Sassoon, Jewish financier connected with the Rothschild family, said,vide Brisbane  'Telegraph,  of 19th June, 1941 - " A world federation of the democracies with Britain, Australia and Canada becoming part of the United States, was essential ". said the  chairman  of the E.D. Sassoon Banking Company  (Sir Victor Sassoon)  who is on his way to Shanghai. " There is no other way to stop Hitlerhe said. "It is now so obvious to the world's business men that a federal alliance is necessary that it hardly bears discussion. England must come into the democracy of the United States with the full right of statehood. It. is also obvious that England must give up her traditions and institutions of government." 
Thus Great Britain is to be relegated to the status of an American State.It means the abolition of our monarchy - of our democratic forms of government - of our freedom and liberty and our own British culture, and the substitution therefor of Jewish-American schemes of world slavery of the people. 
Dr.Rolland, headmaster of Geelong College,  vide  SydneyBulletin, of16th July, 1941, said - "I favour absolute union with America even if it means the sacrifice of the British monarchy." And he is still at large. 

Our men are fighting to uphold democracy and our British ideals whilst these advocates of Federal Union, the real fifth columnists in our midst, would sell Australia and the Empire to foreign financiers. 
In return for this " American statehood " we would have to surrender our Army, our 
Navy and Air Force to the central government, which would bomb into submission any country who dared to question its authority or criticize its methods. 
The policy of international financiers is the real cause of war. They create war and then tell us that in order to abolish it we must surrender our Empire to them. Why not, instead, the United States come into the British Commonwealth of Nations? 
Federal Union is an insult to our British intelligence. We demand the right to fashion and mould our own destiny according to our own British ideals and traditions, and refuse to become the mechanical robots of the international financiers. 
Federal Union propaganda is subversive and seditious, and is an attack upon our King and Empire. If you wish, not only to maintain your King and Empire, but to establish true democracy within our Empire, then assert your rights. 
I have said on more than one occasion in this chamber that governments do not really govern, but are subject to a power which is above all governments, and can bend them to its will. That power is represented by men like  Sir Victor  Sassoon, who is a protege of  Mr. Montagu  Norman, of the Bank of England, and  Mr. Eccles  Mariner, of the Central Reserve Bank of the United States of America. It is certainly not. encouraging to feel that the British Empire would in any circumstances pledge itself to Wall-street for the rest of its existence. When the late  Mr. Chamberlain,  as Prime Minister, was on behalf of Great Britain about to declare war on Germany, he said - 
I get great consolation when I think of the financial strength of the British Empire. 
We know now that that strength fizzled out within a few months, and that Great Britain had to rely upon the United States of America for its lease-lend assistance. All advances made by the United States of America under that legislation must be met. Indeed, it has already been suggested that some of the islands in the West Indies group should be handed over to the United States of America, as part payment of our commitments under that arrangement. We know that those commitments must be met. We also know that the cost of the present war to England is at the rate of £15,000,000 a day. The people who are advancing that credit dictate the policy of the Bank of England. That policy which, amounts to financial enslavement of the British Empire has been in operation since the Bank of England was established in 1694. I notice from the records of the British House of Commons that the member for Ipswich asked the British Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Sir John  Simon, to bring in a bill to alter the charter of the Bank of England, and to conduct an inquiry with a view to finding out who controlled the operations of that bank. I bring these matters to the notice of honorable senators because they have caused considerable uneasiness among those who understand the situation. Because of the tremendous indebtedness of Great Britain to Wall-street, wo should ensure that the Empire shall not be enslaved by American financiers. Such a plan should be exposed. It is an attempt to force the British Monarchy out of existence, and to make Great Britain a vassal state of the United States of America. I hope that honorable senators will take notice of this important matter. I have here all the authorities for my statements. The matter was brought to the notice of the former Attorney-General  (Mr. Hughes),  to whom it was suggested that this subversive influences of certain individuals should be counteracted. 
I draw attention also to the need for housing throughout the Commonwealth to-day. I have received a circular from the Association of Co-operative Building Societies in Sydney stating - 
At a recent conference of tlie above association representing some 200 societies, it was resolved that a plan be adopted to assist in solving the evils attendant on the housing shortage - particularly amongst the workers. Tlie following submissions arc therefore  conveyed  for your urgent and favorable consideration : - 
That the Com mon wealth and State authorities affirm that as the housing position is so serious and is so closely related to defence, it be given No. 1 place on the Priority List for man-power and materials - after actual defence needs. 
To the extent that mcn and materials can be made available to satisfy the demand for the construction of homes - finance be made available through the Commonwealth Bank as a matter of national policy. 
Over and over again I have pointed out to honorable senators that the Commonwealth Bank can make ample credit available for housing. I also draw attention to the fact that the Lyons Government passed a bill authorizing the expenditure of £20,000,000 on a Commonwealth housing scheme. Of that sum less than £1,000,000 has been expended. That money is still available, and I hope that the Government will give some consideration to the needs of the people who urgently need homes. This evening I visited the Causeway at Canberra. It was my first visit to that suburb, and I was astounded to see the hovels in which the people live. It is estimated that in Canberra alone 400 more houses are required. The circular continues - 
Having due regard to paragraph 2, that in so far as Co-operative Building Societies can use finance for the building of homes for applicants with 10 per cent, deposit (with preference for war workers) it be made available to such societies at a low roto of interest. 
That the co-operative method of home purchase be adopted as the medium for those who are able to provide an equity and meet repayments based on a 21 -year and 28-year period. 
That the steady provision of homes through Co-operative Building Societies will permanently relieve the situation in connexion with problems such as overcrowding, substandard homes, &amp;c.- 
It has been stated that slums in Sydney are as bad as those in any part of the world. The circular continues - 
Thu association contends that housing of workers is closely related to defence and claims that the utilization of Co-operative Building Societies will lift a burden from the shoulders of the governments. Co-operative Building Societies arc self-supporting, self-reliant, decentralized and entirely free from the potential evils arising out of bureaucratic control. 
Tt is also submitted that finance car-marked for housing of this nature does not detract from the war effort but is complementary to it: that it will add to the stability of the economic system by the creation of real wealth and to the national morale by the elimination of discontent caused by the present housing conditions. ' 
The Joint Committee on Social Security is now inquiring into various social improvements. The circular also states that- 
The creation of universal home ownership as a right and not a privilege of the workers will also be of the utmost value to the morale of the nation. 
I am pleased to have been able to direct the attention of honorable senators to the sensible statements contained in the circular I have just read. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
A few days ago the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce undertook to make a statement as to the intentions of the Government regarding the apple and pear acquisition scheme. Will the Minister be able to make the statement as promised i 
SenatorFRASER- If the Parliament rises this week, it will be impossible to make a statement on the subject in the Senate as the Government has not yet reached a decision in the matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Army,  upon notice - 
Hashe seen the statement appearing in the Sydney  Telegraph  of Thursday,20th November, made by the Minister for the Army  (Mr. Forde)  to the effect that drastic alterations being made in the methods of drilling army recruits will turn out efficient soldiers in a week? 
Is this statement the considered opinion of the Government or the private opinion of the Minister?  3.Is  this statement the considered opinion of the military advisers of the Government? 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answers :  - 
Drill as such will, in future, play a very minor part in the training ofthe Australian soldier. What was implied in the remark by the Minister for the Army was that sufficient drill will be taught in a week to make a man efficient to carry out his sterner training for battle, and not that the reduction of the periods allotted for drill would make an efficient soldier in a week. 
The opinion of the Minister acting on the advice of his advisers. 
Yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Munitions,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate what was the effect on production of the recent strikeat Lithgow? 
Will the Minister advise the Senate what are the terms of the agreement under which a settlement of the strike was arranged? 
The Minister for Munitions has supplied the following answers :  - 
Two and a half weeks' production lost. 
Work resumed upon matter in dispute being referred to Conciliation Commissioner - whose decision was accepted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate a report on the Royal Australian Air Force Educational Scheme ? 
Is it a fact that a cultural educational service has been provided during the past four months by the Workers' Educational Association for the Williamstown station? 
If so, will the Minister investigate the scheme, with a view to providing assistance in continuing the service, and of introducing it to other stations? 
The Minister for Air has furnished the following answers :  - 
It is assumed from the context of the question that a report is desired on the Royal Australian Air Force Rehabilitation Scheme - the Air Force scheme corresponding to the Army Educational Service. The generalprinciplos of this scheme have been prepared by the Air Board and approved by the Minister. The details of the implementation of the scheme are in the process of formulation and all existing administrative and other machinery will be used so far as is possible. As all the details have not yet been worked out. it is not possible at this stage to give a comprehensive report, but when these details are finalized, the report will be made available. 
The Workers' Educational Association has provided a series of lectures on a wide range of subjects at the Royal Australian Air Force Station, Williamstown. These have been given approximately once a week for the last four months. 
The question of providing assistance to the Workers' Educational Association in continuing the service is being given consideration in the working out of the details of the whole scheme mentioned in No. 1 above, and if experience warrants the extension of such lectures to other stations consideration will be given to such a scheme. 
On the 21st November  Senator Gibson  asked the reasons for the delay in choosing sites in the various States for distilleries for the manufacture of power alcohol from wheat, and why it was not possibleto furnish somebody with the necessary authority to choose the site immediately. 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answer :  - 
The State governments concerned were asked by the Commonwealth to investigate the question of the selection of sites for the erection of distilleries for the production of power alcohol from wheat and to make recommendations in this regard. These recommendations arc now to hand, but a final decision will not be made until all factors involved have received full consideration, and until final arrangements have been made for the construction and management of the distilleries. These matters were under discussion when the present Government assumed office, but they had not been brought to finality. The whole matter is, however, being dealt with with the object of obtaining the best arrangements from a national point of view, and it is hoped that finality will be reached shortly. 
On the 21st November,  Senator Foll  asked when the Gleenslopes Military Hospital was likely to be available for use by the military authorities. It is anticipated that the hospital will be ready for occupation at the beginning of February next when three ward blocks, comprising 204beds, with temporary service accommodation including kitchen, storehouses, administrative block and accommodation for personnel will be available. The permanent multi-storied administrative block is scheduled for completion by the end of 1942. 
I emphasize the need for an allowance in respect of depreciation which will enable mining companies, especially those engaged in tin-mining, to obtain the return of their capital as well as a small profit. When I referred to this matter during the budget debate, the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  said that mining companies are allowed depreciation in respect of their assets and developmental operations. I was aware of that, and fortified myself by referring to section 122 of the act, under which the allowance is made. The point that I make is, that there is no allowance in respect of the tin in the  mines. A mine becomes less valuable with every ton of tin taken from it; consequently, the tin is the most valuable asset, and represents the capital of the company. I do not know whether section 122 of the act is absolutely water-tight, and whether the Commissioner is absolutely bound to observe the formula laid down. There is a method by which mining companies could be given very muchneeded relief. Under section 122, a mining company is allowed to exhaust the value of machinery by means of depreciation over the length of life of the mine. Mining companies say that if they were allowed to charge depreciation as the tin became exhausted, they would obtain more quickly the return of their capital. Portion of a letter that I have received from a company which is carrying on mining operations in Australia reads - 
We are allowed for federal income tax purposes to deduct expenditure on plant and development by writing this expenditure off proportionately over the life of the mine. Would you make representations to the Government that income tax section 122 be amended so that, at the option of the taxpayer, the capital expended may be written off proportionately, not over the estimated life of the mine, but proportionately as the metal contents of the mine are won. If one-third of the metal contents of the mine are won in one year, then the act should permit one-third of the capital expenditure to bc written off b1 that year, irrespective of the life of the mine in years. Taxation without this amendment may prevent us carrying on production until all the tin in the mine which would otherwise be unpayable is won, and thus we may bc forced to  leave  a very large quantity of tin in the ground. 
That is quite understandable. When companies charge depreciation in their accounts, they wish to be allowed to make a deduction in respect of that depreciation. The sum so charged could be returned to the shareholders, not in the form of profits, but as a refund of capital. That is what a common-sense business man would do. If a farmer purchased a lot of machinery and plant, to be paid for over a term of years - a not unusual practice - as a prudent man he would pay off the account in a good year of high prices, so that when times were bad he would be able to weather the storm. The history of mining proves that 90 per cent, of the mines are fairly rich at the commencement of operations. It is natural that a start should be made where the prospects of obtaining returns are brightest. As the workings go deeper or further afield, the mine becomes poorer, until eventually it becomes unpayable, and is closed down. If a company were allowed to charge depreciation, and thus secure the return of capital in the early stages, when the mine was rich and it had ample financial resources, it would be able to work poorer ground at a later stage of its operations. The Government might not obtain so much revenue this year, but I believe that there would not be very much difference over a period of years. Tin-mining should be encouraged. Most of the tin deposits are known. It is a valuable metal, which we cannot do without. Owing to price-fixing, the mines are at a disadvantage. I read in a newspaper this morning that one of the best authorities in Australia - at all events one of the biggest buyers - had stated that, if tin had to be imported into Australia at  present, the  cost would be £40 or £50 more than is being paid. Search for tin deposits should be encouraged, and when discovered they should be developed. Those who invest their capital should be allowed to get itback as quickly as possible. A lot of employment would thus be given, which otherwise would be non-existent. If a mine had a lot of capital charges to meet, it could not possibly work poor ground, as it could if only working expenses had to be met. The company which has written to me has computed that, without some relief in the direction sought, it will have to leave in the ground well over 1,000 tons of tin. When the war is over, tinned plate will be manufactured in Australia, and the industry will be able to absorb the whole of the local production of tin. I trust that the Minister will investigate the matter during the forthcoming recess. If he desires further information, I shall supply it to him, or put him in touch with those who can furnish it. The tin mines of the world are known, and they are a decreasing asset. Wherever tin exists, people should be encouraged and be given the opportunity to mine for it. The Minister might confer with the Commissioner of Taxation, in order to decide whether it is possible to increase the depreciation charge in the early stages. The companies realize that the Commissioner  wishes  to do what is fair. He should be given a little more discretionary power  than  he now possesses. Some companies may not worry about the matter, but to others it means life or death. They should be enabled to approach the Commissioner for the purpose of stating their case, and he should have the discretion to give relief where he thinks it is warranted. Tin mines are an asset to the districts in which they are worked, because they provide a good deal of employment and use a lot of stores. I hope that the Minister will be in a position early in the new year to make a helpful suggestion. 
.- As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  has pointed out, the Government should be extremely grateful to Opposition members in this chamber and in the House of Representatives for their constructive assistance during the discussion of its various taxation measures. As my leader has so clearly shown, it is obvious that these bills were hurriedly prepared, and were not properly digested by the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley).  I can understand the reason for that; a tremendous amount of work has had to be clone, and present Ministers are new to office. 
The attention of the Senate should be drawn to the different atmosphere at the close of this sessional period compared with that which characterized the close of some previous periods. The comments of members of the Opposition, both here and in the House of Representatives, have been helpful and constructive. I remember clearly that when we occupied the Government benches long speeches were frequently made by members of the Opposition concerning everything under the sun, and containing nothing constructive, with the result that bills piled up and at the end there was an unseemly rush of legislation which could not be properly considered. Because the Opposition on this occasion has been entirely constructive, we approach the end of the sessional period with bills properly considered and suitably amended in the interests of the people. The amendments have been welcomed by the Government as well as the public. The present atmosphere is much more in keeping with the dignity and usefulness of the Parliament. 
I am glad that the Government has seen fit to refer certain proposals to an all-party committee, in order that any anomalies may be rectified. I have in mind particularly the position of some private companies. It has been brought to my notice that on the north coast of Queensland a private company engaged in timber production, which is well known to  Senator Courtice  and other Queensland senators, pays under existing conditions taxes aggregating 19s. 8d. in the. £1, and is thus left with a balance of only 4d. in the £1 with which to carry on its operations. It has to pay a flat rate of 3s. in the £1 company tax and a tax of 16s. Sd in the £1 on account of personal exertion. Although at present the products of the timber industry are in great demand, the industry is subject to great fluctuations.  Senator Courtice  will know that in the rainy season logs are difficult to obtain and that there is much loss through machinery being out of use. Moreover, in this industry severe damage to plant is an ever-present risk. Under existing legislation private companies are not allowed to set aside reserves which are free from tax. They should be allowed to do so, and therefore I urge that the conditions which apply to private companies should be carefully investigated. I should have spoken at greater length on this subject were it not that the Government has given an undertaking to look into it further. 
I support the remarks of  Senator J.  B. Hayes in relation to mining and prospecting. When I was Minister for the Interior I had a good deal to do with the prospecting for oil in Australia and the surrounding territories. I know that large sums of money are necessary if the search for oil is to be conducted on anything like a proper basis and with a reasonable chance of success. Some years ago £250,000 was set aside for the payment of subsidies to companies engaged in the search, the money to be paid on the basis of £1 for every £2 expended by the prospectors. The amount was too small. The payment of a subsidy tended to encourage the flotation of companies lacking sufficient knowledge of the requirements for their efforts to be successful, and in many instances the whole of the money so advanced was lost. Except in respect to one or two companies little, if any, return was received for the money so expended. All honorable senators may not agree with me, but I am convinced that the people who are most likely to find oil in Australia, or in the adjoining territories, are those who are engaged in the search for oil in a large way. If we can encourage the large oil companies to expend their money in the search for oil, subject, of course, to proper control such as now exists owing to the greater measure of uniformity of our legislation, we are more likely to get results than if we encourage the formation of mushroom companies which have not sufficient capital to sink more than one or two bores. When the capital of these small companies becomes exhausted they cannot get any further assistance from the Government, and frequently the result is that satisfactory results are not obtained, the money expended is wasted, and the plant becomes useless. That has been our experience over a number of years. There has been a definite move by several of the larger oil companies to search for oil in Australia. In Queensland, the Shell Company of Australia Limited has taken, over a large tract of land, and has entered into an agreement with the State Government to prospect for oil on the basis that the area available to it shall diminish each year, and that should oil be found the project must be developed. The Texas Company (Australasia) Limited has floated a subsidiary company and has brought from the United States of America a geologist of considerable experience. The company is now carrying out prospecting on a fairly large scale in Western Australia. It is to be hoped that the efforts of both of these companies will be rewarded, and that oil will soon be found. It, therefore, seems a pity that the deduction which has hitherto been allowed in. respect of money expended on prospecting is to be considerably reduced. At first the Government proposed to withdraw the concession entirely, but as a result of deputations by members of the Opposition and recommendations by the all party committee that was set up, one-third of the money so expended is to be allowed as a deduction. I oan understand that an individual, or a company, which is subject to high taxation may expend money in prospecting with a view to escaping taxation, but such a position could easily be safeguarded. During the forthcoming recess the Government might well look into this matter with a view to making greater concessions to companies which are engaged in the search for oil and so encourage them to continue the search. 
That is so. Large sums of money have already been expended there in the search for oil. The Government has subdivided large areas into leases, and I am pleased to say that in some localities there are encouraging signs of oil. The job is difficult, due largely to the nature of the country and the lack of transport, but the companies concerned have done good work. One company has expended £1,000,000 in New Guinea, so far without result. I hope that the Government will not too greatly discourage these companies. 
The decision of the Government not to honour 'the undertaking which was given to certain bondholders who converted their holdings during the depression is most unfortunate. At that time, many thousands of bondholders voluntarily sacrificed one-third of the income derived from bonds. In many instances that sacrifice was considerable; it  was  especially so in the cases of those people who were entirely dependent on that interest for their livelihood. When the Premiers plan, which laid the foundation of Australia's prosperity, was introduced, a definite undertaking was given that persons who voluntarily accepted a reduction of the interest on their bonds would not in future be subjected to additional taxes on such assets. The present Government has gone back on that undertaking, notwithstanding that after it was given the Parliament confinned it during the terms of the Lyons Administration. Honorable senators supporting the Government may say that bonds held by companies are not covered by the undertaking, but I point out that it was without qualification. 
That certain securities are held by companies, and not by individuals, does not alter the undertaking in the slightest degree. The action of the present Government amounts lo the repudiation of a contract entered into by a previous government and subsequently confirmed by the Parliament. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  pointed out, this measure is one essentially for consideration in committee, and I shall therefore leave my further remarks until the committee stage has been reached. 
This bill purports to give effect to the policy of the Government as set out in the budget. In dealing with taxation proposals we have to consider, first, the means by which money shall be obtained from the people, and, secondly, the effect that the extraction of such money from them will have on the social and economic life of the community. A fundamental principle of taxation should be that all sections of the community shall bear their proper share of the burden. Taxation is a means of obtaining money from the people by compulsion; it is a form of conscription, of wealth. For that reason, the burden should be distributed evenly among the people. In criticizing the budget proposals of the Fadden Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  said that they introduced an element of compulsion into the life of the Australian people. What a remarkable statement, when we reflect that the honorable gentleman believes in compulsory voting, compulsory unionism, compulsory education, and so on! In normal times taxation differs considerably from taxation under war conditions. We can understand a government in times of peace seeking to exclude small incomes from taxation on the ground that the money so collected is, to  a  great degree, expended on public works and in providing materials for the benefit of the people as a whole, and in developing trade and commerce. The position is entirely different when a nation is at war, for then the bulk of the money extracted from the people is used in ways which will best ensure the safety of the nation. 
 It goes up in smoke. 
It will begin soon; it is only shamming. 
The budget, born of party political strife, bears a very strong imprint of its origin. " Soaking the rich " is everywhere the keynote. Any budget seeking to finance a large-scale war effort by mulcting the favoured few must be inflationary. Excessive reliance on direct taxation of higher incomes caused an inflationary position in Britain, and that result is even more clearly indicated in Australia, where the number of really high incomes is extremely limited. 
The lowering of State income taxes is necessary if the total taxation in some ranges is not to exceed 20s. in the £1. On the other hand, a vast number of incomes under £200 remain exempt, meaning that 300,000 wageearners make no direct contribution, while 80 per cent, of the national income escapes any additional burden. 
The political situation is most tempting, to sacrifice sound finance because with a slender majority the ruling party is greatly tempted to trim its policies to increase its hold on the electors. It will be regrettable if the price of greater political stability has to be disastrous financial instability. 
 Senator James  McLachlan inferred that this Government is actuated by one motive only, the desire to remain in power, and to win the votes of the people. I repudiate that suggestion. He should, in fairness, recognize that the people of Australia are prepared to hear whatever burden is necessary. We all know that this heavy taxation must have serious effects on industry. We understand that if taxation is unfair the effecton the public will be detrimental, and it is unworthy of the honorable senator to suggest that the Government, in framing these measures, is actuated merely by the desire to win votes. If the policy favoured by some honorable senators opposite had been consistently applied in Australia, we should not now have so large a population to face our present difficulties. 
It is not. The Labour party has always advocated the establishment of secondary industries, and it is those industries which support population. We must not forget that to-day we are at war. It has been stated by responsible leaders that if we get out of this war with what we stand up in, we shall be lucky. Perhaps that is true. We realize that increased taxation will have serious reactions, and we are prepared to review our taxation legislation from time to time in the best interests of the nation. It has been claimed that a large proportion of the income of Australians is earned by 70 per cent, of the population. That may be, but the fact remains that most of those people are receiving the basic wage or less, and are, therefore, not in a position to pay direct taxation. Most of tlie workers will be paying so much indirect taxation that their contribution to the war effort will be almost as much as they can make. If we can discover a more equitable method of taxation, the Government will not hesitate to adopt it. In framing this budget, the Government has more than once acted upon suggestions from the Opposition. It has been eminently fair in its attempts to distribute the burden of taxation equitably over all sections of the community. I resent the suggestion that the Government is not seised of the importance of dealing wisely with the economic problems that confront this country. Honorable senators who lay that charge against it under-estimate the intelligence and sincerity of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  and the members of his Ministry. 
The events of the last few days have made the need for an all-party Government more urgent than at any other time. The Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  proposes to raise in loans and collect in taxes £325,000,000 for the purposes of financing the services of this country. The taxation proposals which he outlined in his budget speech have already been found to be incomplete, and to have such repercussions on the industries of this country that a committee, representative of all the parties in this Parliament, has been set up to advise the Government as to amendments to be  effected to those proposals which would make them more workable and acceptable to the people of this country. That shows more than anything else that the Government which now occupies the treasury bench is not capable of carrying on the administration of the affairs of this country alone, and that it needs the assistance of the Opposition to enable it to bring the war effort, to maximum efficiency.  Senator Courtice,  who spoke on behalf of the Government, said that it is seised of the importance of the responsibilities which have fallen to its lot in carrying on the Australian war effort. I remind the honorable senator however, that when the party which he represents was in Opposition, it should have been imbued with the same high principles that now govern its actions. When the supporters of the present Government were sitting on this side of the chamber and the previous Government brought down taxation proposals similar to those with which we are .now dealing, they condemned them as most obnoxious. I refer particularly to the proposal to withdraw the concessional deduction allowed to taxpayers for children in respect of whom child endowment is received. The child endowment scheme was instituted by the previous Government in order to assist those people in the community who had large families, particularly the basic-wage workers. The previous Government realized, just as does the present Government, that it was necessary to collect revenues from all possible sources in order to meet its heavy war commitments. The former Treasurer  (Mr. Fadden)  estimated the irreducible minimum requirement for that purpose at £217,000,000. After exploring avenues of taxation, the previous Government decided that it could not continue to allow the concessional deduction for children in respect of whom child endowment was paid. It realized, of course, that such a proposal would bear somewhat heavily upon certain taxpayers ; but it was forced to that decision by the urgency of its needs. Speaking in the House of Representatives on a Supply Bill on the 21st August last, the Minister for Supply and Development  (Mr. Beasley),  who was then a member of the Opposition, said - 
This scheme of child endowment has proved, under examination, to be in the nature of a trick perpetrated upon the community. . . . We considered that the principle ' of child endowment was very important. 
Every honorable senator will agree with that. He continued - 
For this reason we regarded the scheme as a step forward along the path of social reform. Now we learn that, instead of making endowment payments a real benefit to the people as we believed they would be, the Government has offset the amount which the workers receive in respect of their children by disallowing the concessional taxation deductions in respect of all but the first child in any family under the a.ge of sixteen years. 
Taxation is irksome enough when all is said and clone, but it is much more so when such action is taken without legal authority. I direct attention to what is being dime with regard to taxation assessments for income 
Binned during the- year 1040-41. In respect of this income the Taxation Department proposes to permit concessional deductions for only one child in each family. The argument advanced by the Taxation Department in support of this action is that taxation assessments are based upon the previous year's income. I admit that that is the general guiding principle of taxation, but its application in respect of the child endowment scheme for this year is entirely wrong. In the first place, the child endowment scheme did not come into operation until July, 1941. Therefore, even if there be any merit, in the department's argument in favour of exclusion of the concessional allowance of  £50 each  for all but the first child under sixteen years of age in any family, the practice cannot equitably apply to the 1940-41 year of income, when child endowment was not paid. Why is the Government, through the Taxation Department, robbing taxpayers of their concessional rights? The child endowment scheme 1ms been rigged against the workers. 
Those statements were made only two months ago by a member of the House of Representatives who, since he has been elevated to ministerial rank, has completely somersaulted in his views in regard to principles of taxation. No doubt he realizes now the urgent need of the Treasurer for securing revenue from every possible source; hut before his elevation to office in the new Ministry, he was either not fully conversant with the difficulties that faced the then Government or he deliberately exploited them for the purpose of placing himself and his party in a false position before the people. Obviously, he had one eye on the anticipated general elections. I have no wish to be offensive, but I cannot refrain from saying that at that time the members of the then Opposition had every opportunity to ascertain the actual position which confronted this .country. It is remarkable that less than three weeks after the Labour party assumed office its supporters have been able to realize all the difficulties that confront a government in securing the necessary revenues with which to prosecute the war. The present Government cannot accuse the Opposition of having failed to facilitate the passage of the measures which it has brought down. In 'giving our assistance, in some instances we have had to reframe the measures brought down by the Government, in the interests not only of the Government, but also of the people of the country. 
.- My review of this bill will not occupy many minutes, because I recognize that speeches at this juncture will not achieve very much. Although the Government knows that many of the provisions of the measure are bacl, it elects to meet a bad situation by bad methods. That this criticism is justified is borne out by the fact that the Government has expressed its willingness to refer this legislation to a representative committee on taxation. The claim by  Senator Courtice  that the Labour party has always encouraged the establishment of industries in Australia can no longer be made with justification, because this bill will destroy them. When they are ruined, the proposal of the Government to conduct a post-mortem on them will not help very much. The Government's attitude may be summarized thus : " If we find that industries have been slain by the folly of the Labour party, we shall express our deepest regret." The proposed post-mortem is the silliest suggestion that I have ever heard. If the Government is not satisfied that the measure is equitable, the doctor should be called in before the patient dies. But, obviously, the Government prefers to conduct a post-mortem on the corpse, instead of attempting to cure the patient. 
It is evident to me that certain provisions of the bill have not been thoroughly examined. As the result of the operations of this measure, many private  companies  will be compelled to pay in tax a. sum. which exceeds their profits. In Queensland, some companies will pay taxes totalling 26s. in the £1. But that is not the worst feature. When honorable senators on this side of the chamber warned the Government of this possibility, the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  indicated that certain concessions would be granted to them in the form of rebates. For example, if the assessment is equivalent to 21s. in the £1, the Commonwealth will allow to the company a rebate of 2s. and will beg the States to do the fair thing by allowing a rebate of ls. But the so-called concession of 3s. will be of no value to a Queensland company that is required to pay tax at the rate of 26s. in the £1. If the Government, in its innocence, believes that the States will forgo this revenue, it is making a grave mistake. I repeat that this proposal will kill many industries, and the tragedy of the situation is that the coroner who conducts the post-mortem must inevitably find : " Industry in Australia was killed by the Labour party, which acknowledges that it made a mistake and expresses to the country and former employees  it3  profound regret". 
Several anomalies arise regarding the method of computing income tax. An industrial concern possessing extensive plant is allowed only a certain proportion of depreciation. Companies, in their wisdom, always provide a larger amount than that allowed for this purpose, but the Taxation Department grants them no concession for doing so. Although many factories are now working, not eight hours, but  24  hours a day, the allowance for depreciation will not be varied. Instead of paying taxes at the rate of  21s.  in the  £1,  some companies will pay  25s.  in the  £1.  The Government has no conception of the needs of industry, and, I warn it that the bill will kill many private companies which form the backbone of manufacturing in Australia. Unless the taxation committee makes an early examination of the provisions of the measure, industry will suffer severe hardship. 
 in reply  - I recognize the value of some of the criticism which honorable senators opposite have offered to the bill. The proposal of  Senator J.  B. Hayes will be investigated as soon as possible. I agree with the criticism of  Senator Foll  that the representative committee on taxation should examine without delay the effect of the bill upon prospecting.  Senator Leckie,  who prophesied that the measure will cause the demise of many private companies, will be gratified to learn that his warning will be treated as urgent, and will receive careful consideration. He will be the first to admit that the Government would not be so unwise as to risk such a possibility. It may mean that, on a closer examination of the problem, the Government will be obliged to forgo some of the revenue that it expects to obtain from this source. Honorable senators may rest assured that the anomalies which they have mentioned will be examined at an early date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses  1  and  2  agreed to. 
Clause  3  (Officers to observe secrecy). 
 I should like the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  to explain the purpose of this clause and the effect of the amendments that were made in it by the House of Representatives. From my interpretation of the clause, I conclude that the same cloak of secrecy will be imposed on certain officers to whom disclosures may be made, as applies to the Commissioner of Taxation or his subordinates. 
 Section  16  of the act is designed to ensure that officers will maintain secrecy regarding information about the affairs of a taxpayer. Sub-section  4  of that section provides that information may be communicated by the taxation authorities to several other authorities who are enumerated therein. Included in those authorities is the Director-General of Health, for the purpose of the administration of any law of the Territory for the Seat of Government, which is administered by the Minister for Health. It is proposed to extend the authorization of the communication of information to the Director-General of Health, to include the purposes of the administration of any law of the Northern Territory which is administered by the Minister for Health. The proposed extension of the section is necessary for the purpose of the Northern Territory Medical Benefits Tax Ordinance  1941.  Commonwealth income tax returns will be used to assess the amount of tax which is paid under that ordinance. 
The amendment also corrects the description " Territory for the Seat of Government " and substitutes " Australian Capital Territory ". The inclusion of the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner among those to whom taxation information may be communicated will implement a recommendation of the Joint Committee on Profits. That committee expressed the opinion that information in possession of the Commissioner of Taxation may at times prove to be useful to the Prices Commissioner in conducting his investigations. The Director-General of Health, the Prices Commissioner, and their officers, in common with other authorities to whomtaxation information may he communicated, are subject to the same obligations to maintain secrecy as are officers of the Taxation Department. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 -  (1.) Section forty-four of the principal act is amended: - (2.) The amendments effected by the last preceding sub-section shall not apply to any dividends paid, credited or distributed if the dividends were declared prior to the thirtieth day of October, One thousand nine hundred and forty-one. 
.- I move - 
That sub-clause (2.) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following new sub-clause: - " (2.) The amendments effected by the last preceding sub-section shall not apply to any dividends paid, credited or distributed it the dividends - 
were declared prior to the thirtieth day of October, One thousand nine hundred and forty-one; or 
arc paid out of profits arising from the sale or the compulsory resumption for public purposes of assets not acquired for the purpose of resale at a profit and that sale or resumption, as the case may be, took place prior to the thirtieth day of October, One thousand nine hundred and forty-one." 
The purpose of the amendment is to prevent the retrospective operation of the amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act, which are contained in clause 7. That clause amends section 44 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1940, and by so doing it removes the previous exemption which existed, whereby the assessable income of a shareholder did not include " (a) dividends received from a company that does not carry on business in, or derive income from, sources in Australia, and (b) dividends paid wholly and exclusively out of one or more of the following ..." One which is now excluded is profits arising from the sale or compulsory resumption for public purposes of assets not acquired for the purpose of resale at a profit. We are dealing with two proposals. We are removing, first, the exemption which applies to dividends derived from sources outside Australia; and, secondly, the exemption that previously attached to dividends paid out of what can properly be described as capital profits. In the House of Representatives the Government accepted the view that it would not be proper to apply the new law to dividends received from sources outside of Australia before the 29th October last, and the bill was amended accordingly. However, the position still remains unsatisfactory in relation to dividends paid out of capital profits. 
Yes. The assets out of which the dividend is paid may have been realized some considerable time before the 29th October, but it may just happen that the dividend has not been declared. Dividends in such cases should be excluded from this provision. For instance, there may be two companies carrying out a transaction of this kind. One may have sold its assets and made a profit on the sale before the 29th October and declared a dividend out of that profit before that date. That dividend will be exempt under the clause as it now stands. But if another company has realized profits on the sale of capital assets before the 29th October, but happens not to have declared the dividend out of those proceeds, that dividend is taxable. The sole purpose of my amendment is to put those two cases exactly on the same basis, by excluding from the operation of this clause any dividend which is the proceeds of the realization of capital assets where the realization of those assets took place before the 29th October. 
I remind the honorable senator that the clause as it stands was not framed as the result of any amendment moved in the House of Representatives, nor was it submitted to the committee which inquired into certain phases of our  taxation legislation. This clause will have the effect of bringing into the assessable field certain dividends paid out of ex-Australian profits, and also dividends paid out of capital profits made by companies on the disposal of capital assets, such as factory premises. It also provides that the present exemption of these dividends shall continue to apply to all dividends declared out of those profits before the 29th October last. The purpose of the amendment moved by  Senator Spicer  is to retain the exemption in respect of dividends paid out of capital profits made by companies prior to the 29th. October last irrespective of the date when the dividends are declared. The view taken by the Government is that no obligation rests upon companies to distribute these capital profits; and if they do so distribute them they are now aware of the taxation consequences of any such distribution. I cannot accept the amendment. 
.- I understand that in the House of Representatives an amendment was moved to delete the whole of this clause, and that it went much further than the amendment which I am submitting. My amendment deals with the measure as it has come before us from the other chamber, and this clause as at present drafted does not avoid what I believe will be a retrospective application of this provision. 
It appears to me that the Minister  (Senator Keane)  is inconsistent in accepting the first proposal and rejecting the second. An amendment was accepted in the House of Representatives which enabled companies to escape tax in cases in which the distribution took place, or the dividend was declared, prior to the 29th October. Having regard to this legislation, I venture to say that there will be a number of companies declaring dividends and going into liquidation in a variety of ways in order to safeguard the position of their shareholders. However, simply because the dividend has not been declared, and that is a purely formal act, profits derived from the sale of assets before the 29 th October are to be taxed as dividends. The point made by the Minister is that no obligation rests upon com panies to declare such dividends ; but they must be declared soon or later. I do not know whether there will be many of these cases, but 1 appeal to the Minister to accept the amendment as a matter of justice. "We are aware of the experiences of preference shareholders in the past in cases of liquidation where a dividend had not been declared. For many years it was thought that because a dividend had not been declared preference shareholders were not entitled to a dividend on their capital. However, the inequity of that position has since been recognized by the courts, and the dividend, whether it is declared or not, is subject to the same preference as the preference shareholders enjoy in respect of their capital. I do not think that the loss of revenue will be very great if the amendment be accepted. In any case it simply proposes to deal out even-handed justice in such cases as have been outlined by  Senator Spicer.We  should not make flesh of one and fowl of another. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be left out be left out  (Senator Spicer's amendment). 
The object of this clause is to repeal section 45 of the principal act, and its effect will be to deprive companies of the benefit conferred under the conversion loans floated during the last depression period. Many arguments could be used in regard to the impropriety of this proposal. It has been suggested by a gentleman for whose honour and integrity I have the greatest respect, that this immunity from further taxation was given to individual bond holders, and, the bonds having now fallen into the hands of companies, the exemption should no longer apply. That is quite an erroneous view. In what direction are we moving to-day? Having in view that immunity from taxation many companies purchased these bonds at increased ratesbelieving that the return from them would be in harmony with returns from other Government securities. I have no wish to use words which may be regarded as offensive, but to me this proposal constitutes a breach of an undertaking given by Parliament, and it will react to the detriment of this Government and subsequent administrations. 
-We all know that, but there was some justification in that case. In regard to these bonds a solemn promise was given by the then government in its prospectus; the Prime Minister of the day pledged his word. I notice how sensitive is the present Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  about this repeal, and I do not wonder at it. He is attempting to evade the issue by saying that the matter was in the hands of investors, but that is not the position. No matter who the investor may have 'been, a promise was given that no further taxation would be imposed on. such bonds. If there is one thing which I would suggest to honorable senators above anything else, it is that in the interests of war finances and the finances of the Commonwealth generally, we should adhere to our promises, however onerous the circumstances may be. I do not know the currency of these bonds, but I contend that whatever the position may be, we should not break faith with the people who invested their money. 
-If they are prepared to forgo voluntarily the whole or part of the interest, in the same way as certain invalid and old-age pensioners in South Australia made a substantial voluntary contribution towards war funds, that is all right, but that has nothing to do with us. We should keep our own hands clean. We should not allow any government, whether it be of the political complexion of the one which is now controlling the destinies of this country, or not, to be charged with repudiation. If we do so, the people will be unable to accept the pledged word of a prime minister. I take a very serious view of this matter because of its effect upon our national finances. We should fulfil our undertakings however distasteful it may he. The time cannot be far distant when we shall be in a position to redeem these bonds. 
.- The effect of section 45 is to provide that any portion of Commonwealth loan interest contained in a dividend shall be free of income tax to the same extent as that interest itself is free in the hands of the recipient company. The origin of section 45 may be traced to the agreement made in 1931 between the Commonwealth and the bondholders stating the terms on which bonds were to be converted. Included in that agreement was a provision that interest on the converted securities should not carry a greater rate of tax than that applying for the financial year 1930-1931. In the following year the Lyons Government inserted the provisions which it is now proposed to repeal. The incorporation of section 45 in the law was justified on the ground that it was the logical extension of the undertaking given to the bondholders when they converted their loans. It was then contended by the Government that if section 45 were not enacted the agreement with the bondholders would partly be nullified. However, the undertaking given to the bondholders applied to the interest on the loans and did not extend to dividends paid out of Commonwealth loan interest. Taxation on interest received by companies from these converted bonds does not exceed1s. 4d. in the £1, that being the rate of tax applied to companies in the financial year 1930-1931. Accordingly, a company, as the recipient of the interest, has in the past received, and will continue to receive, the advantage of the difference between the 1930-1931 rate and the ordinary company rate of taxation as well as freedom from super tax and the undistributed profits tax of1s. and 2s. in the £1 respectively. It is considered that there was no justification for the inclusion of section 45, and it is now proposed that that provision be repealed. The Royal Commission on Taxation 1932-34 recommended the repeal of the section. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13- 
Section seventy-eight of the principal act is amended - 
by omitting paragraph (d) of subsection (1.) ; and 

 Section proposed to be amended - 


 The following shall . . . he allow able deductions: - 


 Calls paid by the taxpayer in the year of income on shares owned by him in a mining company or syndicate carrying on mining operations in Australia for gold, silver, base metals, rare minerals or oil, or in any company carrying on afforestation in Australia as its principal business. 

I move - 
That paragraph (6) be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following new paragraph :  - " (b) by inserting in paragraph  (d)  of sub-section (1.) after the word  calls ' the words not exceeding  £50,';  and". 
The purpose of this amendment is to retain the taxation exemption in respect of those individuals who, by the payment of calls on shares, encourage those conducting small gold-mines to increase their production of gold. The amendment affects Western Australia in particular, but it also affects other States in which gold-mining is carried on. By excluding the first £50, we shall retain exemption from income tax for the individuals whom I have mentioned. I am not concerned with these people personally, but with the future of the industry. This exemption is an encouragement which hasbeen given throughout the history of the gold-mining industry. As I have pointed out on several occasions, this industry was the first to be taxed under war conditions. In Western Australia alone, the gold tax yields £1,000,000 per annum, and that money is received by the Treasury, not after a long delay following the issue of an assessment, but from month to month as the gold is won. The State Taxation Department also mulcts the industry to the extent of 4s. in the £1. Therefore, it is quite reasonable to say that the goldmining industry is already bearing an equitable share of the burden of providing revenue for Avar purposes. To discourage the industry at this stage would be fatal. The production of gold is a very important factor of our war effort. 
I did not.  Senator Cameron  should be fully acquainted with the facts before making such an absurd statement. The gold-mining industry can play a major part in the rehabilitation of Australia, and contribute substantially towards the cost of the war. Only gold can help us materially to create the needed dollar exchange. The request is reasonable. The amendment which has already been foreshadowed does not go far enough. The one-third rebate might benefit the more wealthy investors. I am not interested in those people. My sole aim is to ensure that there is a continuance of encouragement to prospectors and to owners of small mines, because only by these people can the industry be continued after the larger concerns have ceased to operate. Fifteen thousand workers are at present employed in the Western Australian gold-mining industry, and we should be very careful not to whittle away any of the privileges which the industry has enjoyed in the past, and which have been the means of bringing gold production up to its present level. There is an imminent danger that the industry will deteriorate. Already, gold production in fine ounces in Western Australia has fallen considerably, and if the exemption be abolished altogether, the result may be disastrous. It is the prospectors operating in a small way and the owners of small mines who ensure the stability of the industry. The Government's proposed rebate of tax would benefit the. wealthy shareholders. A mining investor with an income of £300 a year and who had paid £50 in calls during a year would receive a tax deduction of 16s. 7d. at the old rate, but at the new rate of tax would receive a benefit of £1 2s. 3d. The investor on an income of £5,000 a year would receive a benefit of £31 instead of £10. 
.- The Opposition agreed with the Government that a committee should consider this matter, and a certain recommendation made by that committee is now embodied in the bill.  Senator Allan  MacDonald cannot have it both ways. I was amazed to hear that he intended to submit this amendment. I thought that some effort would be made to see that the understanding arrived at was honoured. Members of the Opposition held a party meeting, and must have reached an understanding with regard to the bill. With much of what  Senator Allan  MacDonald has said, I agree. I, too, have an interest in the mining industry, but I have to adapt my views to the facts of the case. Assuming that I was in receipt of an income of £500 per annum, and paid £50 in calls on mining shares in the course of a year, under the pre-war rates, I was allowed a tax deduction of £1 14s. 6d., but the deduction that would have been allowed under the new rates, if not amended, would have been £7 18s. 4d. If I had been in receipt of an income of £2,000 a year, and had paid £200 in calls, I should have been allowed a tax deduction of £17 under the old rates, but if the present amendment were accepted, I should be allowed a deduction of £126. I contend that that would not be equitable. 
The small men in the mining industry are not interested in the big " shows " to any great degree. Small groups of miners are not connected with companies, and seldom claim the deduction in respect of calls. The amendment of the principal act proposed in the bill would withdraw the deduction from assessable income of calls paid by a taxpayer in the year of income on shares owned by him in a mining company or syndicate carrying on mining operations in Australia for gold, silver, base metals, rare minerals or oil, or in any company carrying on afforestation in Australia as its principal business. In substitution for the deduction of those calls, it is proposed to allow a rebate of tax in respect of the calls. The provision for this rebate is included in clause 24 of the bill. I cannot accept  Senator Allan  MacDonald's amendment. 
.- The Opposition has been upbraided by the Minister in charge of the bill  (Senator Keane)  for not having accepted an agreement made by a certain committee, but the Opposition was not consulted in the matter. I contend that honorable senators are entitled to arrive at an independent opinion. If I consider that an amendment of the bill is necessary, I shall try to have it amended, but I have no desire to ignore a decision reached by a committee representative of all parties. 
I repudiate any suggestion that the Opposition has violated an agreement. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be left out be left out  (Senator Allan MacDonald's amendment). 
.- I foreshadow an amendment of clause 30 which affects the operation of this clause. The effect of proposed new section 101a of the principal act, which is to be inserted in that act by this clause, is to impose income tax on moneys received by the trustees of a deceased person where those moneys would have been income in the hands of the deceased person  had  he continued to live, hut which in  the  hands  of  the trustees are capital  moneys  and, apart from special legislation, would not be subject to income tax. This principle arises in connexion, for example, with book debts owed to a deceased person. Had he continued to live, the payment of those debts would be income in. his hands, but by reason of his death the whole of those receipts are capital belonging to his estate. Such moneys pass to the beneficiaries of his estate who are entitled to capital, and not to beneficiaries who are entitled to income. I entirely approve of the idea that it is desirable that receipts of that kind should be taxed, and the Government has accepted an amendment of its original proposal to ensure that the tax which is imposed will attach only to the trustees, and will not be a. tax payable by the beneficiaries. If a person receives what to him is a capital payment, it would be unfair to require him to pay income tax upon the basis that it is income. Consequently, the liability for tax under the proposed new section will be limited to the liability of the trustees. It seems undesirable that a provision of that kind, which imposes a new liability on the trustee, should apply to any assessment which is made before the 1st July of next year. Under the bill as originally drafted, the proposed new section was made applicable to assessments as from the 1st July, 1941. That would mean that it would apply to receipts of this kind received by trustees between the 1st July, 1940, and the 30th June, 1941. Those moneys might have been received in estates in respect of which the trustees have already dispersed all moneys. As the liability is one which is imposed only on the trustees, it should not be imposed in circumstances in which they may not be in a position to make the necessary tax payments out of the trust moneys in their hands. For that reason, I shall move when section 30 is before us that this provision should apply only to assessments as from the 1st July, 1942. I understand that the Minister will accept that amendment. 
In view of  that  assurance by the Minister, I shall  not  argue the matter further. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 17 - 
Section one hundred and two of the principal act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (2.) the words " so much of the net income of the trust estate as is attributable to the beneficial interest" and inserting in their stead the words " the net income of the trust estate, or so much thereof as is attributable to the beneficial interest as the case may be,". 
Amendment (by  Senator Keane)  agreed to - 
That after the word "interest", first occurring, the following words bo inserted: - " which he had power so to acquire,". 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 18 to 23 agreed to. 
Clause 24 (Rebate in respect of business income). 
.- In his second-reading speech the Minister  (Senator Keane)  cited an example  in  which he pointed out that if the total taxation of a company were 14s. in the £1 under the Commonwealth law, and 7s. in the £1 under the State law, a total of £1 ls. in the £1, the Commonwealth would remit 2s., making the tax 19s. in the £1, and would ask the State to give up the other ls. 
The States are under no obligation to do so. Let us take another example, and suppose that the Commonwealth tax is 14s. in the £1 and the State tax 5s. in the £1. I should like the Minister to say whether, in such a case, the Commonwealth would remit ls., or only 8d., leaving the other 4d. to be remitted by the State. A third example is that in which the total Commonwealth and State taxes amount to 25s. in the £1. In such an instance, will the Commonwealth remit all of the money that will bring the tax back to 18s.. and if not, how much will it remit? The second example which I have cited - that in which the Commonwealth tax is 14s. and the State tax 5s. in the £1 - will be typical of many actual instances in South Australia and Victoria. The question arises whether the State will remit 4d. in the £1. It is probable that they will not be willing to do so. 
The Minister should be able to say whether, in such instances, the total Commonwealth rebate will be at least 2s., or sufficient to bring the tax back to 18s. in the £1. Surely that is enough for any company to pay. [ am greatly concerned about this provision because I fear its consequences As a committee is to be appointed I imagine that this is a matter with which it will deal, but we should know what pressure the Commonwealth is likely to put upon the Stales and whether the Commonwealth will depend on the States to make a rebate. 
The insertion of the proposed new section 160 in the principal act is designed to pro  vide an abatement of income tax in any case in which the effective combined rates of Commonwealth and State taxes, including Commonwealth war-time company tax, exceed 18s. in the £1. In any such case, it is proposed that relief shall be given by the Commonwealth to the taxpayers concerned according to the proportionate weight of tax imposed respectively by the Commonwealth and the States. For example, if the combined weight of the tax on each £1 of income is 21s., composed of 14s. Commonwealth tax and 7s. State tax, the relief to be given by the Commonwealth will be 2s. on each £1. 

 Senator Leckie asks what the position would be if the Commonwealth tax were 14s. in the £1 and the State tax 5s. in the £1. In such a case the rebate by the Commonwealth would be 14/19ths of ls. The question of any rebate by the States will be the subject of immediate consultation with the State governments. It is left to the States to contribute their portion of the tax abatement so that the combined Commonwealth and State taxes on income will not exceed 18s. in the £1. The proposed rebate will be applicable to companies as well as to individuals. 
.- The Minister will see the inequity of this provision; there is no certainty that the States will fall into line. Indeed, the chances are that they will not contribute anything, in which event the companies concerned will be placed in an impossible position. Some Queensland companies will have to call on capital in order to pay the taxes on their own income. Surely that is a position which is not contemplated. We should provide that in no case shall the combined tax exceed 18s. in the £1. 
This is a matter for immediate reference to the committee which is to be set up, but I can say that in the event of a State refusing to do what looks to be a fair thing and the Commonwealth being unable to achieve its objective, not more than 18s. in the £1 will be taken from any company. 
The Government thinks that they will. Two consequential amendments need to be made to this clause to bring its provisions into conformity with the amendment made a few minutes ago to clause 13. 
Clause consequentially amended, and, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 25 to 29 agreed to. 
Clause 30- (1.) The amendments effected by sections four to ten (both sections inclusive), sections twelve and thirteen, paragraph (a) of section fourteen, sections fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-four, twenty-five and twenty-eight of this act shall apply to all assessments for the financial year beginning, on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-one and all subsequent years. 
Amendment (by  Senator Spicer)  agreed to - 
That in sub-clause 1 the word "sixteen" be- left out. 
Amendment (by  Senator Spicer)  proposed - 
That, after sub-clause (2.), the following new sub-clause be added: - " (3.) The amendment affected by section sixteen of this act shall apply to all assessments for the financial year beginning on the first day of July, One thousand nine hundred and forty-two." 
1 am pleased that the Government has agreed to ' accept this amendment. I do not know that it has had time to consider the full effect of clause 16 and the controversy to which it is likely to give rise. I apprehend that before long thousands of people in this country will find it necessary to alter their wills, thereby doing a good turn to a very deserving profession. I understand that this tax is to be the subject of review by a committee composed either of Ministers or of members of the House of Representatives. Honorable senators apparently will not have the privilege of giving the committee the benefit of any knowledge they may possess on the subject. Immediately upon a man's death the Government proposes to convert what the State laws regard as capital into income for the purposes of the Income Tax Act. That will give rise to tremendous difficulties in the administration of estates by individual executors, for whom I have a great deal of sympathy. Com panies arc well advised and employ experts in their establishments; but individual executors and trustees have a somewhat lonely row to hoe with the assistance of a solicitor in order to see that they have protected themselves. I sympathize with them, because it seems a little harsh that the obligation is cast upon them and not upon the estate. I support the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed, to. 
Bill reported with amendments ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
The Senate takes no cognizance of pairs. They are the subject of a private arrangement between honorable senators. 
.- I move - 
That  the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill deals with the rates of income tax to be imposed for the current financial year on individuals and companies. As regards individuals, it is estimated that the increases for which the measure provides will produce an additional £6,000,000 in a full year, and £4,500,000 during the current financial year. Amendments of the Income Tax Assessment Act which have already received the consideration of this chamber will yield a further £2,400,000 for a full year, of which £1,900,000 will be collected during this year. The total additional revenue to be obtained from individual under the Government's income tax proposals is thus £S,400,000, of which £6,400,000 will be collected this year. The bill does not alter the rates of tax payable by individuals whose taxable incomes from personal exertion do not exceed £1,500, or whose incomes from property do not exceed £1,200. It is, however, proposed to increase the rates on incomes above those amounts. In regard to personal exertion incomes, the existing scale provides for a flat rate of tax of 16d. on taxable incomes of from £1 to £400. From that point the rate increases uniformly by one twenty-fifth of a penny for every additional £.1 of income over £400 up to £1,500. With regard to property incomes, the present scale provides for a flat rate of 20d. on each £1 of taxable incomewhere the taxable income does not exceed £400. Thereafter the rate increases progressively by one-twentieth of a penny for every additional £1 of taxable income until the taxable income reaches £1,200. As 1 have already stated, these rates will remain unaltered. In the case of personal exertion incomes, however, it is proposed to continue the progressive increase of one- twenty-fifth of a penny beyond the point of £1,500 to £2,500, where the rate of tax will be 8s. 4d. in the £1. For every £1 of taxable income in excess of £2,500 the rate will be 16s. Sd. With regard to property income the rate of progression of one-twentieth of a penny will be continued until the taxable income reaches £2,000 at which point the rate of tax will be Ss. 4d. in tha £1. For every £1 of taxable income beyond £2,000 the rate will be 16s. Sd. 
Honorable senators have before them tables illustrating the effect of the proposed increases from which it will be observed that the increase of tax on incomes of £2,000 from personal exertion is small. For incomes of £3,000 the increase averages about 20 per cent, ov-r the tax at the present rates, with a  small  variation between States due to the deduction of State income taxes paid. At £5,000 the average increase is approximately 40 per cent., and at £10,000 about 55 per cent. This percentage addition to the tax payable at the present rates continues to increase progressively up to a limit of 66 per cent, on the highest incomes. The tables also disclose the disparity between the amount of federal income tax payable at the existing rates in the various States on equivalent incomes in tha higher ranges. This disparity is accentuated by the increases of the rates. For example, under the proposed rates an income of £5,000 from personal exertion will be subject to federal tax of £2,673 in Victoria, and only £2^,077 in Queensland. The disparity of nearly £600 is a direct result of the variation in the incidence of State income taxation in the several States, and it reflects the effect of the deductions allowed in the federal assessments for State income taxes paid.. The allowance of deductions for State taxes has a tendency to iron out the existing inequalities in the incidence of income taxation levied by the different States, as the highest federal tax is paid in the State with the lowest State taxation, and vice versa. The result of this allowance of State taxes is to bring about a greater degree of equality in the total impact of Federal and State taxation on individuals resident in the different States than would otherwise be the case. In war-time it is imperative that individuals should contribute to the nation's finance to their full strength. To that end, those individuals who reside in tha more lightly taxed States must be prepared and content, for the duration of the war, to relinquish a good deal of tha advantage previously enjoyed by them in  comparison with individuals receiving similar incomes in the more highly taxed States. The comparative equalization of the incidence of the combined Federal and State income taxation on the higher incomes, arising from the allowance of State taxes in the federal assessments, is clearly indicated in Part B of the tables circulated amongst honorable senators. The combined totals of Federal and State income taxes payable in the various States on certain specimen incomes are shown therein. At £1,000, the total tax in the highest taxing State is about 20 per cent, greater than in the lowest taxing State. On an income of £3,000, the difference is only about 3 per cent. Owing to the irregularity of the State taxation scales the difference fluctuates in the specimen incomes in excess of £3,000, but it remains at less than 6 per cent. 
The limit of federal taxation on high incomes is virtually fixed by the highest taxed State; and consideration of thu weight and incidence of State taxation has been a material factor in devising the proposed federal scale. A maximum of 18s. in the £1 has been taken for the combined Federal and State taxes. Under the proposed scale the combined tax in the highest taxing State will be about 16s. in the £1 for an income of £10,000 with a limit- of 18s. for the highest income. It is recognized that in some cases in the higher ranges of income circumstances may cause the total weight of Federal and State taxation to amount to more than 18s. in the £1. As has already been explained to honorable senators in connexion with the Income Tax Assessment Bill, provision has been made in those cases for an abatement of tax which is designed to limit the total weight of taxation on income to 18s. in the £1. The Commonwealth will abate its proportion of the excess taxation over 18s., and it now rests with the States to abate the balance of the excess. 
The rates of tax payable by individuals are not being otherwise altered and, for that reason, I do not propose to enter into a detailed explanation of the various clauses and schedules contained in the bill, as they do not depart from established practice. The tables circulated amongst honorable senators give a sufficiently clear indication of the taxes which will be pay- able by individuals on specimen incomes at the proposed rates, as compared with the taxes payable on similar incomes at the existing rates. 
The bill also provides for an increase of the rates of ordinary income tax payable by a company from 2s. to 3s. in the £1. Companies, like individuals, must be prepared to provide more revenue for the successful prosecution of the war, and this increase is justified by reason of the extraordinary demands of war-time finance. It is estimated that the additional revenue due to this increase will amount to £4,500,000. Honorable senators will recognize the necessity for the ever-increasing expenditure on defence requirements, and will approve of the Government's proposals which aw designed for the dual purpose of financing some portion of that expenditure, and restricting the surplus spending power available for the purchase of consumer goods of a non-essential character. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 7 agreed to. 
Schedules 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Fifth Schedule. 
.- I should like an explanation of the heading of the fifth schedule, which reads: " The rates of tax by reference to a notional income ". Can the Minister  (Senator Keane)  explain what that means? Many people had a notion that they had an income last year; but they now have a notion that they have no income at all. In many cases, unfortunately, the latter notion would be correct. Perhaps that heading might be altered until such people find out whether their first or second notion is correct. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Schedules 6 and 7 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; reporadopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a' second time. 
This bill gives effect to the Government's proposals to obtain increased revenue from estate duty. It will be remembered that the previous Government adjusted and increased the rates of estate duty in May, 1940. These rates, which are at present in force, commence at 3 per cent., which applies to all estates up to a value of £10,000, and then rise steadily to a maximum rate of 20 per cent, in respect of estates amounting to £500,000. The Government considers that further revenue can be obtained from this source without undue hardship. It proposes, therefore, to obtain this revenue by steepening the rate of progression in respect of estates in excess of £20,000. It 13 not proposed to alter the rates on estates up to this value because the Government considers that they already bear a sufficiently heavy burden. I believe that honorable senators opposite are generally in agreement with the Government on the propriety of this form nf taxation. 
Honorable senators have received copies of a schedule which has been prepared in order to show the effect of the proposals of the Government upon estates in various ranges together with the death duty in the highest taxed state, and British estate and succession duties on estates in these ranges. It will be seen that no change in the present amounts of duty payable is indicated in that schedule until the estate of £30,000 in value is reached. The increase of duty for such an estate is less than £100. There will be slight increases on estates of values between £20,000 and £30,000, but. generally speaking, they are negligible. The increases are not really substantial in any range until the estate reaches a value of £100,000. I suggest, however, that no particular hardship is involved in the increase of the rate applying to estates of this and higher values. 
It is expected that the additional revenue for a full year, to be derived from these increases, will amount to about £650,000; but it is not expected that any additional revenue will be derived from this source in the current financial year. This is due to the fact that the increases will apply only to the estates of persons dying after the commencement of the act, and it is not possible for the Commissioner of Taxation to issue such assessments until some months after the date of death. In this respect honorable senators will appreciate that executors and trustees require a considerable time to prepare an estate duty return. The act allows three months after death for the lodgment of the return. Necessarily, a considerable amount of examination and valuation work must bc done prior to the issue of assessments in these higher ranges. 
 I do not intend to oppose the measure, but I take this opportunity to point out that since the outbreak of war we in Australia have created many records. The particular record to which, f draw attention at the moment is the fact that we are submitting to higher rates of taxes than residents in any other part of the British Empire. I have no doubt that our people are prepared to shoulder this drastic burden. At the same time, however, it is the duty of whatever Government may happen to be in power during the period of the war to ensure that these heavy impositions shall be distributed equitably. As the Minister  (Senator Keane)  said in his secondreading speech this form of taxation was introduced in the Commonwealth during the last war, and the rates then fixed operated up till last year. The previous Government, of which I was a member, because of the financial responsibilities confronting it, was obliged to look for additional avenues of raising revenue, and it came to the conclusion that it could justly and reasonably increase the rates of estate duty. Consequently those  rate3  were increased last year to a degree sufficient to return an additional revenue of £S50,000 annually. Therefore, honorable senators will realize that the present rates are greatly in excess of those which operated since the last war up till last year. It is now proposed to steepen still further the grade on estates of higher values. I draw the attention of honorable senators to the effect of the rates of duty which it is now proposed to impose, and shall compare them with those operating in Great Britain. It will be generally admitted that for many years past the people of Great Britain, both in wartime and peace, have been subject to taxation on a scale greatly in excess of that operating  in  any other part of the Empire. On an estate valued at £30,000, which is admitted to be substantial, the tax in Great Britain amounts to £3,900. In Australia the duty which  will  be collected under this measure on an estate of the same value, combining the amount to be collected by the Commonwealth and that to be collected  by  the State  with  the highest rate of tax, will be £5,525. On an estate of £100,000 the duty in Great Britain would be £25,700, and in Australia £3S,900. A feature of this  bill  which was criticized in the House of Representatives, and which I think should be criticized in this chamber - I do not place the entire responsibility for this matter upon the Government because the provision to which I refer is in the original act - is the anomaly in connexion  with  the estates of deceased soldiers. Under the present act,, there is an exemption of all estates valued at less than £5,000, but unfortunately, should the value of an estate exceed that amount  by  even £1, the entire value is taxable. In Great Britain there is a standing exemption of £5,000. During, the last war, estates of deceased soldiers were entirely free from estate duty, and I think that it would have been reasonable to have retained that exemption. 
I understand that, and I have no wish to delay the Senate, but I think it is well that I should draw the attention of honorable senators to these anomalies. In addition to the exemption of £5,000, in Great Britain the estates of deceased soldiers are subject to certain other concessions. There, it is recognized that men who risk their lives in the defence of their country cannot have the same expectation of life as those who remain at home in civil occupations. 
Consequently, it was decided that the estates of deceased soldiers should have some further consideration, and a further exemption calculated on the basis of a soldier's normal expectancy of life was granted. That exemption gives considerable relief. As an example of how the exemption works, I shall quote comparative figures for Great Britain and Australia in the case of a soldier aged 25 years. Should an estate be valued at £10,000, the duty in Australia would be £300, but in Great Britain, as the soldier's expectancy of life is considerably less than that of a civilian, the duty amounts to only £40. Corresponding figures for an estate valued at £30,000 are £L,200 in Australia and £239 in  Great  Britain, and for an estate valued at £50,000, the tax in Australia is £6,000 and in Great Britain £1,435. 
That is so. but it is the principle and not the number which concerns me. 
There is another matter to which I would like to direct attention, now that these rates have become so high. Very often it is exceedingly difficult for an estate to raise sufficient money to pay estate duty, and if, owing to war conditions or for other reasons, there is a succession of deaths, it is almost impossible for an estate to meet the heavy calls made upon it. Therefore, in Great Britain, there is a system which is designed to give relief in such cases. That matter also, should be examined by the representative committee on taxation. Should the beneficiary of an estate die within a year of the previous death, a rebate of 50 per cent, is given in the estate duty. Should a second death occur within two years, the rebate is 40 per cent., three years 30 per cent., four years 20 per cent., and five years 10 per cent. That is a principle which could be very well adopted in Australia. I admit that when the value of estates is much lower than these figures, the anomalies do not loom so largely, but although we are compelled to search for every available source of revenue, it is desirable that the concessions which I have outlined, should be taken into consideration, and, if necessary, relief given. 
I do not intend to oppose the bill, and I hope that it will have a speedy passage through this chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be nowread a second time. This bill introduces a new type of taxation. Up to the present a serious gap has existed in the taxation system of this country owing to the absence of a measure such as this. The taxation authorities have to contend with many devices adopted by taxpayers in order to avoid obligations placed upon them by taxation acts. I am not using the word " avoid " in any derogatory manner, but am referring to the legal methods that can be adopted to lighten tax burdens, and of which advantage has been taken in the past by taxpayers. The measures adopted by taxpayers in their efforts to lighten the burden of taxation, are usually directed to spreading their assets nominally amongst the members of their families, and in some cases other persons who act as dummies. The means adopted are usually the creation of settlements or trusts, the formation of family companies, and gifts of assets. Income tax, estate duty, and land tax can all be avoided by such means unless some action be taken to protect the revenue. The extremely heavy weight of taxation that has had to be placed upon the community by the exigencies of the present war will increase this tendency to a dispersal of assets, and this bill is designed to assist to protect the revenue from such dispersals. The bill has two purposes - to protect the revenue, and to produce revenue. The middle course has been adopted rather than either making the bill fully protective by placing such a high duty upon gifts that taxpayers would be deterred from making them at all, or, making the bill fully revenue producing by placing such a low duty upon gifts that it would not seriously deter the making of gifts, and would produce the maximum revenue. The bill is designed to protect the revenue by having some deterrent effect, and at the same time to produce revenue. Similar measures have been adopted in New Zealand and in Queensland, and I understand, are working successfully. The Government's proposals are modelled upon the New Zealand and Queensland legislation., and have closely followed the provisions of those acts. The bill provides that all gifts made within a period of three years shall be taken into account for the purpose of fixing the rate of duty upon any particular gift. If' the aggregate value does not exceed £500 no duty will be payable. Exemption is also provided for small gifts, and gifts to the donor's wife and children and other persons for maintenance and education. Retiring allowances, pensions and gratuities to employees and gifts to religious, scientific and charitable and educational institutions are exempt. Where a gift, which has been subject to duty, forms part of the estate of the deceased person, i.e., the deceased person dies within twelve months of the making of the gift, there will be a rebate of gift duty so as to ensure that the gift is not taxed twice, viz., under this legislation, and under the Estate Duty Act. That act provides for the inclusion in the estate of the deceased, of gifts made within twelve months preceding the date of death of the deceased. Returns will be lodged by donors, and assessments will be issued by the Commissioner of Taxation, who is to have the general administration of the act. Donors will have a right to object to the assessment, and if the objection concerns the value of property comprised in the gift and the donor is dissatisfied with the commissioner's decision on the objection he will have the right to approach the Valuation Board constituted under the Land Tax Assessment Act. The donor will also have the right of reference to a Board of Review on any other questions. A right of appeal to  the courts on questions of law is also provided in the bill. The scale of rates  to  be imposed is that adopted for the purpo. es of estate duty, and commences at 3 per cent, which applies to the aggregate value of all gifts, made within the period of three years, up to £10,000. It progresses steadily thereafter until a maximum of 27.9 per cent, is reached when the aggregate value reaches £500,000. I shall deal more fully with this aspect of the proposal when moving the second reading of the bill imposing rates of duty. 
.- This bill is very different in character from that originally introduced by the Government. It has been amended so much that one can scarcely recognize it as the same measure. Almost every clause has been subject to most drastic amendment, and I consider that  the  Government has acted wisely in accepting the amendments now incorporated in the measure. In its original  form  it would have completely dried up  the  stream of benevolence in this country, in that it was given such a wide application that it would have covered  every  conceivable kind of gift, even ordinary commercial transactions whereby traders released debtors from some of their debts, or did not sue for them, and allowed the period of limitation to exDire so that they could not recover them. The special committee appointed to consider the bill recommended a number of drastic amendments, and to the form in which the bill is now presented to this chamber no objection can be taken, except with regard to two features. The  bill  contains a provision which is intended to ensure that the tax shall attach to all gifts made on or after the 29th October. I have no objection to that. That was the day on which the Government's intention to introduce this measure was announced, but in sub-section 3 of clause 12 the Government appeal's to have departed from that proposal, lt  is  provided in that clause that where a gift is made by an instrument that requires to  be  registered, it shall be deemed to have  been  made after the commencement of this legislation, if the document is registered, or lodged for registration, after  the  commencement of the act. That seems to me to be a very unfair proposal. L" understand that the Government takes a favorable view of the amendment that I had intended to move, and I am prepared to accept the assurance of the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  that he will refer it to the representative committee on taxation for further consideration, and introduce amending legislation during the first parliamentary sitting next year, if that committee so recommends. 
Prior to the 29th October last, it was legal for a man to make a gift without being taxed. It was a process which, in some circumstances, involved him in liability to pay State stamp duty. No doubt there were persons, who, before the 29th October, desiring to make gifts, ascertained what the liability for stamp duty would be, and were prepared to pay it and make those gifts. Let us suppose that, before the 29th October, a person made a gift of that kind in the form of a transfer of land, and paid the stamp duty which was properly applicable, to that transaction in a State where stamp duty was payable, and handed over to the donee of the gift the transfer and the documents of title. As a matter of law, that would be a complete gift. I emphasize that statement because it is of some importance. The donor, by handing over those documents, whether the transfer were registered or not, would have completed the gift, and put it entirely beyond his power to withdraw it. 
According to the bill as it now stands, if the transfer were registered after the 29th October last, although the property were completely handed over before that date, he would be liable to pay the duty. It seems to me that, under this clause a liability not contemplated up to the 29th October last is imposed, and the donor would be placed in a position from which he could not escape. Regarding that part of the measure. I had drawn up a proposed amendment. Under the Administration of Probate Act in Victoria, section 1.77, it is provided that - 
Any settlement of any property made on or after the Kith  December,  1870, by any person containing trusts or dispositions to take effect after his death, shall, upon the death of the settlor, be registered within the prescribed time or such time as the commission may allow. 
I believe that similar legislation has been passed in some of the other States. It is at least arguable that a settlement made in Victoria in, say, 1890, containing trusts or dispositions to take effect after the death of the settlor, where the settlor died after the 29th October, and the settlement requires to be registered under the Victorian legislation, will be liable for duty under this particular provision. That would thereby bring within the scope of this legislation transactions which had been completed in every real respect 30 or 40 years ago. I appeal for serious consideration of this matter. I put it forward, because I believe that there is danger of a grave injustice being done if the bill remains in the form in which it has been presented. It is all very well for those in charge of the administration of the taxation laws to include all kinds of provisions intended to cover hypothetical cases. In doing that, they frequently, perhaps, do not catch the hypothetical cases that they had in mind, but create real injustices against particular persons who have engaged in legitimate transactions. The position could be properly met by a provision in the bill to ensure that no tax would attach to any gift which, as between the donor and the donee, was completed in the practical sense prior to the 29th October last. It should not be necessary, in order to exempt the gift from duty, that it. should be lodged for registration in accordance with the section to which I have referred. In view of the undertaking which I understand the Minister  (Senator Keane)  will give with regard to the proposed amendments that I have drawn up, I am willing to accept his assurance in the belief that my proposals will receive the favorable considerations of the committee inquiring into certain phases of our taxation legislation. 
Generally, I find little to complain of in this bill. I realize that it is necessary to raise more revenue, hut I agree with  Senator Spicer  in his criticism of the bill. I understand that an undertaking has been given that the matter mentioned by the honorable senator will be referred to a committee on taxation and that an appropriate amendment will be introduced at a later stage.The framers of this bill appear not to understand the difference between a transfer of property and its registration. The two transactions are entirely different, and are the responsibility of separate persons. When a person disposes of a block of land to another, by sale or otherwise, and signs the transfer his responsibility ceases; thereafter the person to whom the land has been transferred must accept full responsibility for having the transfer registered. Such registration may involve the payment of stamp duty, but the donee may not be in a position to pay the stamp duty at the time, and, in consequence, the registration may not take effect immediately. I have had a good deal of experience in connexion with the transfer of properties, and I know that, in many instances, registration does not take place for a considerable time after everything else in connexion with the transfer has been concluded. The transaction becomes definite as soon as the transfer is signed. From that time the purchaser, or the donee, is liable for all rates, taxes, and other charges on the property. He is virtually the owner of the property, irrespective of whether it is registered at once or not until some months later. I imagine that there will be cases in which the registration of properties which have been transferred for some time will not be completed before the 29th October. The committee on taxation matters reported as follows :  - 
The committee considered the question as to whether marriage settlements should be exempt from gift duty. It was decided that there was no justification for such an exemption. 
A man may make a settlement on the woman whom he expects to marry, and sign a transfer of property to her,but the lady may decide not to marry him. In such an event, the man can do nothing, although the transfer has not been registered. This is a matter which should he referred to the committee which is to inquire into certain tax imposts, and I understand that that will be done. When it comes before the committee, I hope that a proper decision will be (arrived at. 
I support the second-reading of the bill, which I am sure every honorable senator can do with confidence, seeing that itcomes before us practically as a recommendation from the special committee appointed to consider it. The bill is very different from the measure which was originally introduced in the other chamber.In submitting this legislation to an all-party committee, the Government has set an excellent precedent, and has shown a readiness to co-operate with the Opposition in the preparation of legislation with a view to its unanimous' support by ail parties. I commend the Government for its action in conferring with the Opposition. Such conferences indicate also the willingness of the Opposition to co-operate. What has been done in this instance is an indication of what could be achieved if the principle were carried a little further, and the Government sought the co-operation of other parties in forming a national government. In its original form this legislation was ill-considered, and I am glad that representatives of the Opposition have been able to do something towards improving it. The efforts of the Opposition are; I am confident, appreciated by the Government - and on that point the Minister may have something to say later - and also by the people. 
 in reply  - The Government has agreed that  Senator Spicer  shallbe given an undertaking that his suggested amendments will be considered by the committee which is to inquire into certain tax imposts, and that, in the next period of the Parliament in the New Year, the Government will introduce any amendments which that committee may recommend along the lines suggested by  Senator Spicer. 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Definitions). 
I should like the Minister in charge of the bill to explain the meaning of the words " including any judgment or order of any court made in default of the exercise of the power by the donee thereof " in the definition of " disposition of property " in paragraph e of this clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 47 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I . move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill imposes the rates upon gifts which will become liable for duty under the provisions of the Gift Duty Assessment Bill. That bill, when enacted will be incorporated andread as one with this measure. The rates of duty are the same as those imposed for estate duty purposes. This scale of rates has been adopted because the second main purpose of the imposition of a duty upon gifts is to protect estate duty by deterring persons from dispersing their assets amongst relatives and others while still alive. The rate will commence at 3 per cent, on gifts in excess of an aggregate value of £500 made during the statutory period of three years and up to the value of £10,000. Thereafter it increases by three one-hundredths of £1 per cent, for each £100 by which the value exceeds £10.000 until the rate of 6 per cent, is reached at £20,000. Thereafter it increases by two one-hundredths of £1 per cent, for every £100 by which the value exceeds £20,000 until the value of £120,000 is reached, where the rate is 26 per cent. Thereafter it increases by one  two-hundredths  of £1 per cent, for every £1,000 by which the value exceeds £120,000 until the maximum of 27.9 per cent, is reached, where the aggregate value is £500,000. Although the rates imposed under this bill follow the same scale as the rates imposed under the Estate Duty Act, the actual amounts of duty imposed upon any particular gift Will usually be less than the estate duty that would have been imposed upon the property comprised in the gift had it formed part of the estate of the donor at the time of his death. This is due to the fact that the rate of gift duty is ascertained by reference only to the aggregate value of all gifts made by the donor within the period of three years; whereas in the case of estate duty the rate depends upon the aggregate value of the whole of the donor's assets as at the date of death. It is not likely that the donor will give away the whole of his assets before his death and within the period which permits the aggregation of gifts for the purpose of arriving at the rate to be applied thereto. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time, f should have been far happier had this been an occasion on which I had the privilege of informing honorable senators of proposals for reducing postal and telephone rates. That, however, is an event to which I look forward in the future. In order to assist in meeting the huge expenditure with which the Com monwealth is confronted in carrying on the war activities of the nation, the Government has examined ways and means by which the postal department might be utilized for raising additional revenues. I shall now proceed to outline in detail the conclusions reached, which were referred to briefly in the speech delivered by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  when introducing the Estimates and Budget Papers. In normal circumstances the Government would hesitate to approve of postal charges being increased merely for the purpose of securing additional revenue; but these are not normal times, and it is considered that there is full justification for the proposals which I shall proceed to explain. Honorable senators will be interested to learn that in the United Kingdom and other Empire countries war-time increases have already been imposed in respect of charges for certain postal services with the object of securing additional revenues. The nature of the increases proposed in this bill are such that the public generally will be obliged to meet them only to the degree that they use the services provided by the postal department. The average man who writes only a few letters and has little occasion to make telephone calls will not be greatly affected by these increases, but businesses will, of course, be obliged to face a larger expenditure, according to the use they make of the services provided. The proposed increases relate only to postage and telephone charges. It is not intended to vary the telegraph tariffs or the broadcast listener's licence-fee. The Government has decided that a war postage tax of  id.  for each postal article, both domestic and overseas, would form an equitable basis- for the provision of additional revenue. In this connexion it is interesting to recall that, during the last war, a postage tax which was introduced in October, 1918, was applied to all postal articles other than parcels, payment being made by means of ordinary postage stamps affixed to the articles. In regard to the domestic service, it is provided in this bill that, in the case of postal articles posted in the Commonwealth for delivery therein, a war postage charge of £d. for each postal article shall be imposed, irrespective of weight, with the following exceptions: - 
Articles of all classes posted by or to members of the Commonwealth Military Forces: It is intended that transmission of such mail matter shall continue at the specially reduced rates of postage which at present apply, and that the war postage tax shall not be imposed. 
Newspapers and periodicals posted at bulk rates of postage: It is intended in respect of such articles that the war postage charge of½d. will be payable on each unit of weight, for example, on each 20 oz. for newspapers and each 16 oz. for periodicals, calculated on the aggregate weight of the postings made at the one time. 
Parcels transmitted by parcels post: Only a comparatively small amount of additional revenue would be secured from the application of the tax to parcels and, in view of the competition from other parcels carrying concerns, it is conceivable that the traffic would be detrimentally affected by the imposition of the -½d. tax, especially as the rates of postage on parcels are now higher than they were during the last war. This follows the course adopted in 1918 when the war postage tax was not applied to parcels. 
Coincident with the imposition of a war postage charge on domestic mail matter a. similar charge will be made on postal articles addressed to places beyond the Commonwealth, with the following exceptions :  - 
Postal articles addressed to exmembers of the Commonwealth or Empire Forces abroad; 
parcels; and 
air mail articles addressed to other countries on which the present charge is higher than the charge for domestic air mail articles. 
The rates of postage on parcels posted for delivery abroad are fixed by agreement with the countries concerned, and can not be altered without negotiations which may extend over a long period. 
I have no pleasure in announcing these increases. I do not believe that a public utility, such as the Postal Department, which makes such large surpluses each year, should increase its rates ; but such an imposition is necessary in order to supplement the revenues in these difficult times. During the last war an additional postage of  id.  was imposed on all articles. The then Government regarded the increase as an equitable impost. Later, during the depression, a further impost of½d. for each article was imposed, bringing the postage rate up to 2d. The Government now proposes to add a further½d. for the purpose of raising additional revenue for the prosecution of the war. If increases of the postage rates were justified in 1918, and during the depression, surely the small increase proposed in this billis justified when the Government is called on to meet commitments unprecedented in the history of this country. I trust that the bill will be given a speedy passage. 
In increasing the postage rate, as a means of supplementing its revenues, the Government is acting in concert with the Governments of other British dominions. During the last war, the Mother Country, Canada, South Africa, and almost every British dominion had recourse to this form of tax as a means of raising revenue for war purposes. I have noticed that theletters; coming from Borneo, Fiji and other countries are already bearing increased postage rates. I invite the Postmaster-General  (Senator Ashley)  to investigate the possibilities of increasing the attractiveness of Australian postage stamps. It isour proud boast that we are in the forefront among the nations of the world in respect of the provision of social benefits for our people, but Australia is perhaps the most backward country in the British Empire, if not in the world, in regard to the attractiveness of its postage stamps. Postage stamps afford a very cheap means of advertising Australia, but, unfortunately, the artistic quality of our postage stamps, especially the½d., 4d. and 9d. stamps, has little appeal to philatelists. Certainly it reflects no credit on the designers. 
Incidentally, the issue of new postage stamps affords a simple means of raising revenue. I am informed on good authority that a complete re-issue of Australian postage stamps from the ½d. stamp to the £1 stamp would yield a profit to the Treasury of between £70,000 and £100,000. The only cost involved in such a re-issue would be for the printing of the stamps. I urge the PostmasterGeneral to give consideration to the redesigning and re-issuing of stamps of all denominations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
In moving - 
That  the bill  be  now read a third  time, 
I take the opportunity to assure  Senator Allan  MacDonald that I shall give attention to the matter which he raised on the second reading. If I remain PostmasterGeneral long enough I shall see that his suggestion is carried out. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
1 move- - 
That  the  bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
The purpose of the bill is to implement the recommendations contained in the eighth report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, which was tabled in the Senate on the 17th September last, and to provide for the payment during the current financial year of special grants totalling £2,300,000 to the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. As honorable senators are aware, the commission was set up in 1933 to inquire into and report on appli cations from States for financial assistance under section  96  of the Constitution. The recommendations of the commission for the last seven years have been approved by the Commonwealth Government and adopted by Parliament. 
The grants which the commission has recommended for the year  1941-42  compared with those paid during  1940-41  are as follows : - 
In assessing the grants the commission has followed the principle it laid down in its third report, viz., the grant is determined by " the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for a claimant State, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States ". It should be pointed out, however, that, on this basis, the commission's assessment for South Australia this year is £1,400,000, or £250,000 more than the commission recommends should actually be paid. This variation of the assessment is due to special factors which I shall explain. 
It is important to remember that the grants recommended are based largely on the budgetary results of the States for 1939-40, the latest year for which complete information was available to the commission when it conducted its investigations. The commission also takes into consideration special conditions obtaining in years following that in respect of which the grant is assessed. Thus, in 1937-38 the grant assessed for Western Australia on the budgetary results of 1935-36 was £439,000, but a special repayable advance of £136,000 was added in order to assist the State over a difficult, period caused by severe drought. That advance of £136,000 was recovered from Western Australia in 1939-40. when the assessment was £731,000 and the amount actually paid was £595,000. 
This year the commission has recommended that this procedure be reversed in the case of South Australia. The grant assessed for that State is £1,400,000, but for certain reasons which I shall give later the commission considered that this amount would be more than adequate to meet the needs of South Australia in 1941-42. Consequently, the commission has recommended that the grant to be paid this year should be £1,150,000, and that £250,000 should be withheld to be paid to South Australia in the succeeding year, when it maj' be appropriate to the needs of the State to pay an amount greater than the assessment. The reason for this apparent reduction in the grant to South Australia is explained in the commission's eighth report as follows: - 
Tlie grant was assessed on the basis of the relative financial position of the States in 1939- 40. and it will, if approved, be paid in 1941-42. There is clear evidence of improving conditions in South Australia; and, with the growing economic stimulus created by war industries and war expenditure, it is likely that in the near future the finances of the State will further improve. Thus the grant indicated by our calculations may be in excess of actual needs in 1941-42 . . . We realize that it is unwise to forecast in these uncertain times, but it is probable that the improved situation in South Australia in 1940- 41 will lead, under our method of assessment, to a reduced grant in 1942-43. We have considered various methods by which the South Australian grant of £1,400.000 might fairly be adjusted to meet the special circumstances of the State. One method considered was that any surplus in 1941-42 arising from the increased grant should be supplied to the reduction of past revenue deficits. Another course is to defer payment of a part of the grant. On the whole we believe this latter method would best serve the interests of South Australia, and wo accordingly recommend that payment of £250,000 be deferred by the Commonwealth until the succeeding year, thus reducing the payment for 1941-42 to £1,150,000. 
For the information of honorable senators, I submit the following statement showing the trend of grants in recent years : - 
I shall now briefly explain the main reasons for the difference between the grants for 1940-41 and those recommended for 1941-42. lt is desirable that these differences should be clearly understood. 
The grant assessed in respect of South Australia was £1,400,000, but, as I have explained, the commission recommended that £250,000 of this amount should be withheld. The amount assessed is £400,000 greater than the grant paid in 1940-41. This is due to a combination of factors. There was a considerable decline in the relative taxable capacity of the State because of drought and low prices for wool and wheat in the income year 193S-39. At the same time, collections of State taxes increased in 1939- 40 as the result, partly of the imposition of higher rates of income tax, and partly of an abnormally large increase of estate duty revenue which fluctuates considerably from year to year. The severity of taxation for 1939-40 was, therefore, relatively higher for South Australia, and, consequently, the adjustment on account of relative severity of taxation was £518,000 more favorable than for the previous year. 
The grant assessed in respect of Western Australia was £630,000, which is £20,000 less than that paid in 1940-41. This reduction was due to a combination of factors. There was an increase of £117,000 in the adjustment account of the relative deficit of the State for 1939-40, but this was almost exactly offset by a decrease of £119,000 in the adjustment for severity of taxation due largely to an improvement in the relative taxable capacity of Western Australia. It should be pointed out, however, that despite this decrease, the adjustment in respect of severity of State taxation in Western Australia was £150,000 in favour of that State. A new correction appears this year under the head " Road Debt Charges ", and it is this correction which is responsible for the reduction of the grant recommended. The commission believes that this adjustment is reasonable, and explains that it has been made because of the failure of Western Australia to bring its road finances reasonably into line with those of other States by making provision for meeting at least.  some portion of the annual interest and sinking fund payments on road debt from the proceeds of motor taxation. In this connexion it is appropriate to point out that in 1939-40 and 1940-41 the Government of Western Australia introduced legislation designed to bring its road finances more into line with those of other States, but on each occasion it was rejected by the Legislative Council. This action resulted in considerable loss to the State budget. The commission considers that, in fairness to other States which use a large proportion of motor taxation to pay annual charges on road debt, this factor should not be ignored in arriving at a final assessment. 
The grant recommended to Tasmania is £120,000 higher than that for last year. This increase is due mainly to the fact that the Tasmanian deficit in 1939-40, the year on which, the calculations are based, was 6s. lid. per head higher than in 1938-39, whilst the average deficit per head in the non-claimant, or " standard ", States fell by 7s. 2d. Because of this absolute and relative increase in Tasmania's deficit the grant was favorably affected to the extent of £169,000. An adjustment was also made in the case of Tasmania because the road finances of the State were out of line with other States. The commission's eighth report indicates that the special problems associated with roads in Tasmania were taken into consideration in making the correction. 
It may seem anomalous to honorable senators that the special grant for South Australia should be increased in a year when the financial position of that State is showing considerable improvement. It must be remembered, however, that the grants recommended for 1941-42 were based, not on the relative financial position of the States in 1940-41, but on the relative financial position of the States in 1939-40, the latest year for which complete information was available to the commission when it conducted its investigations. The commission, in paragraphs 67 to 70 and paragraph 192 of its eighth report, emphasizes that there is no escape from this procedure if grants are to be assessed on actual budgetary results. The commission believes that any attempt to assess grants on budget estimates would lead to grave error and dissatisfaction. The commission's experience extending over eight years has shown that estimated figures are very unreliable. The commission also expresses the view that, so long as its methods are consistently applied from year to year, any apparent injustice in any particular year will be adjusted within a short period. Any possible error is not cumulative. The eighth report points out also that the commission does not adhere rigidly to the grants indicated by its basic calculations. In special circumstances, such «s I have already explained, it adjusts the calculated figures so that the grants finally recommended may be in reasonable harmony with current financial needs. 
I understand that the improved position of South Australia in 1940-41, arising from war expenditure and other causes, is now being investigated by the commission and will be taken into account fully in the grant recommended for 1942-43. 
The commission has commented as follows on the fact that the total of the grants recommended for 1941-42 is above that paid in recent years : - 
Owing to the war and to the very large and increasing obligations of the Commonwealth, it may be suggested that special grants should not bc increased in a time of national emergency. The commission fully appreciates this point of view; but, at the same time, it must bear in mind the function it has to perform in preserving a reasonable financial balance among the States. It must always be remembered that the special grant is the basic grant designed to adjust the financial inferiority of the claimant States and to enable these States effectively to discharge their functions in the federation. If wo recommended grants below the amounts justified by a careful investigation of the relative financial position of the States, it would be tantamount, as we stated in our seventh report, to placing a discriminatory burden on the claimant States in a time of difficulty. If the pressure of war finance requires some reduction in the amount of assistance to the States it should, we believe, bc applied equitably to all States. As the commission deals only with applications from the claimant States for special grants, this is not a matter on which it has power to make any recommendation. 
There is considerable evidence that the work of the commission is thorough and impartial, and that all matters affecting the " financial needs " of the claimant States have been investigated. The Government, therefore, believes that the amounts recommended by the commission will meet adequately the needs of the claimant States. Consequently, as in past years, the Government has decided to accept the recommendations of the commission. I commend the bill to honorable senators. 
I take this opportunity to pay a tribute to the former  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Grants Commission,  Sir Frederic  Eggleston. Those who have had an opportunity to study the commission's activities over a number of years, appreciate fully the splendid work which has been, done by that gentleman, and it is fitting that he should be commended for his efforts. 
As a representative of one of the claimant States, it has always occurred to me that the attitude adopted by representatives of the more populous States such as New South Wales and Victoria towards these grants has been extremely reasonable. I do not remember any occasion on which an honorable senator has objected to a grant being paid to a claimant State. That is a tribute to the fair-mindedness of honorable senators. 
The policy of industrial decentralization pursued by the Menzies Government will bear fruit before long, particularly in South Australia, where so much money is being spent on war requirements. The finances of the claimant States should improve to such a degree that their calls upon Commonwealth funds will be considerably reduced if not eliminated. In planning our post-war reconstruction, it is of the greatest importance that special attention should be given to the less populous States, particularly Western Australia. If the secondary industries of such States be developed a more balanced economy will result and the Commonwealth will benefit, particularly from a defence point of view. 
Any one who has studied the reports of the Commonwealth Grants Commission from year to year must be impressed with the thoroughness with which the commission has carried out its work. Any one who desires to make himself familiar with the economic struc ture of any State can readily do so by studying the commission's reports. However, I submit that no one can be satisfied with the results which the commission has achieved, beyond the fact that it has kept the claimant States going. General satisfaction will not exist until there is a fuller recognition of the disabilities suffered by certain States, particularly Western Australia because of sparseness of population and geographical remoteness. The arguments advanced by the Commonwealth Grants Commission are perfectly logical so far as the bases upon which the commission works are correct, but an examination of these bases does not always render thom readily acceptable, and until there is an alteration of the Constitution, and perhaps of the Financial Agreement Act, nothing very definite will be achieved. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  mentioned the development of secondary industries in Western Australia, and the effect of such development upon the economic structure of that State. I have been privileged to make a close examination of Western Australia's potentialities in recent months, and I am convinced that given wise administration and a better understanding on the part of the Commonwealth of its duty to the less populous States, something very substantial will result. The Government has set up an Western Australian Industries Expansion Commission to survey the position and if that commission functions properly, it should achieve valuable results. I do not agree with its personnel, not because of any lack of merit on the part of its members, but because they are all public servants and are naturally restricted by the suggestions made to them by the government for which they work. There is also another factor which I think has escaped notice. These public servante  are already being worked hard, and it is difficult to seu how they can carry out research activities and make a close examination of all factors affecting the development of secondary industries. Although Western Australians are not entirely satisfied I am sure that they are eery glad to have this assistance. 
Yes, and they have no conscious reluctance in doing so. However, at the same time they look forward to the adoption of a more suitable basis of relations with the Commonwealth. 

 Senator HERBERT HAYS (Tasmania) [3.55  . - In supporting this bill, 1 as a representative of one of the claimant States, am glad to see that the guiding principle in accordance with which grants are made to the States, now embodies a true federal spirit. For many years the grants were left to the judgment and discretion of Parliament, and the guiding principle then was that the economic standard of any State should be allowed to fall below that of other States. The Commonwealth Grants Commission was set up by the Lyons Government, which undertook to give effect to whatever recommendations were made. The commission is to be commended for the valuable work that it has done in an impartial way. Grants have varied from year to year with due regard to the manner in which claimant States have handled their finances, and to their standard of social services. I support the bill and commend the commission for the detailed way in which it has presented its findings thus enabling honorable senators to ascertain how the grants have been arrived at. 

 Senator ALLAN MacDONALD ("Western Australia) 3.58. - 1 wish to deal with the reduction of the grant to Western Australia this year. That State is the only one of the three claimant States which has suffered a reduction, and from the remarks made by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  when introducing the bill, one might gather the impression that the reduction was due in the main to the action of the Legislative Council of Western Australia in rejecting certain bills submitted to it by the Government of that State, in relation to motor car registration fees. 
It is misleading. 
It is definitely misleading. The reason why the Legislative Council objected to the  measures  referred to was to protect country municipalities and roads boards. Un like the eastern States, in Western Australia motor registration fees are levied by the various country authorities or municipalities, and are retained by them to defray the cost of the upkeep of interelectorate roads, which are used largely by metropolitan people and cross-country travellers. They also receive a proportion of the metropolitan area licence-fees collected by the State Police Department. If the State Government purloined al! of the State licence-fees, it would mean that the local governing authorities in the outlying country districts, including the mining areas, would not have sufficient local finance to enable them to keep country roads in proper repair. The Legislative Council of Western Australia prefers licence-fees to be left in the hands of the local authorities, instead of the whole of the money collected being paid into the State Treasury, with the result. I suggest, that the country districts would not see it again. The action of the Legislative Council has not had a detrimental effect on State budgets, because the State Treasurer would have to make some attempt to help to finance the local authorities in distant country centres, which are unable completely to- finance themselves. 
I look forward to the time when Commonwealth grants to the claimant States will gradually disappear. Owing to the increased war-time production, I should say that the first State in which a grant will no longer need to be made will be South Australia. I take my hat off to the Government of that State for the commendable way in which it is pushing ahead with the erection of factories, and the establishment of new industries. 
But the Government of that State is to be congratulated upon its energy and capacity in seizing the opportunity to expand its secondary industries. Of the whole of the six States, South Australia has the fewest natural resources, and, therefore, is deserving of congratulation upon its increased production. I am rather envious of that State because Western Australia has not progressed nearly so rapidly. I am hoping that tha* position will be corrected, and one of the means of doing so would be to give every encouragement to the development of the natural resources of Western Australia, particularly the gold-mining industry. Owing to the fact that the State has few secondary industries, difficulty is experienced in absorbing the unemployed, but, as happened during the dark years of the depression, the unemployed were absorbed by a further expansion of goldmining. Nothing should be done to jeopardize the expansion of that industry which has done much for the State and will continue to be of valuable assistance to Australia, when accounts have to be faced during and at the termination of the war. That is one of the reasons why I took certain action in this chamber to-day. In considering future increases of taxes, the Commonwealth Government should have regard to the importance of thegold-mining industry to Western Australia. I repeat that I look forward to the time when it will be no longer necessary to provide these grants, owing to the increased prosperity of the three claimant States. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the hill be now read a second time. 
This measure provides for the appropriation of revenue for the ordinary services of the various departments. The expenditure proposals of the Government have already been dealt with in the budget debate, and it is not proposed to deal now with the various items in detail. Any explanation that may be desired by honorable senators will be furnished at the committee stage. The bill provides for an appropriation of £64,226,000 for the services of the year 1941-42, to which should be added the amounts already granted under Supply Acts Nos. 25, 27 and 30 of 1941, namely, £15,141,000 and £11,576,000 and £16,221,000, respectively, making a total of £107,164,000, which is the estimated expenditure from annual appropriations for ordinary services for the year 1941-42, as set out in detail in the second schedule of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The following is a summary of the proposed appropriation for additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c. :  - 

<graphic href="169332194111275_34_0.jpg"></graphic>

Details will be found on pages 308-318 of the printed Estimates. 
The civil aviation works estimate of £547,900 is largely occasioned by defence requirements. In addition to the amount of £1,566,000 to be appropriated from revenue for postal works, a further amount of £1,500,000 will be provided from loan fund. This will be the subject of a loan bill. The total expenditure on postal works in 1940-41. was £3,240,000. 
The amount of £1,135,000 required for territories of the Commonwealth is attributable to large developmental programmes rendered necessary by the increasing populations of both the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In Canberra, substantial expenditure is necessary in the provision of cottages, with the attendant engineering services. An amount of £96,000 has been included towards the cost of the Canberra Hospital, and £40,000 for the new abattoir. At Darwin also considerable expenditure is required for the extension of the jetty, completion of the hospital and other essential works. 
The amount of the appropriation of £3,831,000 does not include works constructed out of the federal aid roads grant to the States, which this year is estimated to amount to £1,600,000. It also excludes works for defence and war services, and works made possible by the Commonwealth grant of £100,000 a year in aid of interest and sinking fund on public works carried out by local governing authorities. Although certain works in progress at the 30th June last have been carried on by credits from Treasurer's Advance, this bill authorizes the commencement of a number of new works which it is highly desirable should be put in hand at the earliest possible moment. I trust, therefore, that honorable senators will agree to its speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.28 J. - I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The Supplementary Estimates for the year ended the 30th June, 1940, which have been tabled, cover the items of expenditure for which no specific parliamentary approval has been given, but which were met temporarily from Treasurer's Advance pending submission to Parliament in the form of these Estimates. , 
For the year 1939-40, the usual provision in the Estimates in Chief under the heading " Advance to Treasurer " was increased to £4,000,000 owing to the war. That amount enabled the Treasurer to meet those urgent and essential services, including war expenditure, which could not be foreseen and which, therefore, were not included in the main Estimates. Particulars of this unforeseen expenditure in the form of Supplementary Estimates are now submitted for covering appropriation by Parliament. As copies of these Estimates are being circulated among honorable senators, I do not propose at this stage to refer to the items in detail. 
Of the amount of £4,000,000 voted for Treasurer's Advance in 1939-40, £2,239,029 was expended on ordinary departmental services and war services payable from revenue, whilst £126,145 was used for additions, new works and buildings, for which latter sum Supplementary Estimates will shortly be submitted separately. 
Although in this bill Parliament is being asked to appropriate £2,239,029, the expenditure for the year was only £1,409,242 more than the total provision for ordinary services in the main Estimates and the additional Estimates of £9,000,000 for war purposes which were introduced in May, 1940. This is because in many instances the new expenditure was made contingent on savings of similar amounts in other items. In other words, straight-out savings were possible. Defence and war services account for £1,715,000 out of the amount of £2,239,029, included in the bill. 
Full details of the expenditure which is now submitted for approval have already been furnished to Parliament in the Estimates and budget papers for 1940-41. The Estimates compare the amount voted for 1940-41 with the actual expenditure for 1939-40, whilst the budget papers also record the expenditure. 
Details were also included in the Treasurer's financial statement for 1939-40 which has been tabled for the information of honorable senators. 
In order that honorable senators will have an assurance that these Estimates are based upon properly audited accounts, it is the practice to await the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the year under review. The Treasurer's financial statement, which contains full particulars of these Supplementary Estimates, was forwarded to the Auditor General on the 8th October, 1940, and the Auditor-General's report was laid on the table of the House on the 27th March, 1941. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
. I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
When the Supplementary Estimates for ordinary services were presented, honorable senators were informed of the reason for and the procedure adopted in connexion with bills of this kind. 
This measure provides for an appropriation of £126,145 for expenditure under " additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c", which has been met from the vote " Advance to the Treasurer " during the year1 939-40. Although the amount to be appropriated by this bill is £126,145, it does not represent the expenditure on works and buildings in excess of the original estimates. Actually, the total expenditure of £3,036,445 was £497,555 less than the sum of £3,534.000 appropriated for this purpose. Parliament is therefore being asked to approve of new works expenditure which was more than counterbalanced by savings on other works. I do not propose at this stage to refer in detail to all the items which are included in the papers made available for the information of honorable senators. The main items include the provision of £58,874 on account of the Treasury owing to the acquisition of a building for the Taxation Department in Perth, and £66,640 for the Postal Department, mainly for trunk line and telegraph services. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
The schedule. 
Will the Minister supply particulars of the the provision of £58,874 for buildings, works, sites, fittings and furniture for the Department of the Treasury? It is rather disconcerting to find such a large amount provided for a department like the Treasury. 
The acquisition of the building owned by D. and W. Murray Limited in Perth for the accommodation of the Taxation Department was not provided for in the Estimates for 1939-40. The provision of £58,874 has been made for that purpose. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be nowread a second time. 
This bill provides for the raising and expending of £1,500,000 from Loan Fund for postal works. A further £1.566,000 will be provided from revenue, making a total provision forthe year for postal  works of £3,066,000. The total expenditure on postal works in 1940-41 was £3,240,000. These amounts are, of course, included in the Estimates of expenditure for the year and this bill is similar to the measures usually submitted in this connexion. A substantial portion of the expenditure is due to the provision of services for defence purposes. Expenditure on postal works is reproductive and charges for services provide for interest and sinking fund. It will be noted that the total expenditure proposed on postal works is almost £200,000 less than in J 940-41, and it is probable that next year it will be necessary to reduce further the expenditure on these works in order to transfer resources of men and money from civil purposes to the war effort. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
The schedule. 
.- Will the Minister state the purposes for which the provision of £26,000 has been made for national broadcasting services? 
This provision covers approximately half of the following items which total £53,900, the balance of which will come from revenue appropriations :  - 

<graphic href="169332194111275_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

Schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill bo now read a second time. 
This measure is introduced for the purpose of granting and applying out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund moneys sufficient to provide for the payment of a bounty of 25s. a ton on superphosphate produced in Australia and sold by manufacturers on and after the 1st July,  1941.  Honorable senators are probably aware that superphosphate is manufactured from raw rock phosphate, and that Australia is dependent on outside sources for its supplies of such rock. Since the outbreak of war, freights and other charges incurred in importing rock phosphate from Nauru and Ocean Island, and in consequence of damage by enemy action at Nauru, have consistently increased. The British Phosphate Commission has found it necessary from time to time to increase considerably the landed price of rock phosphate to superphosphate manufacturers. The Commonwealth Prices Commissioner, who has been in close touch with the superphosphate position throughout, has on three separate occasions approved of increases of the prices charged by manufacturers to users of this fertilizer. 
The first increase of 10s. a ton which took effect from the 1st January, 1940, applied to all States. The second increase which operated from the 1st July, 1940, varied amongst the States. In New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and South Australia, excepting Eyre Peninsula,  the increase was 14s. a ton, in Western Australia and Eyre Peninsula 16s. a ton and in Tasmania 9s. a ton. The latest rise of 32s. a ton in all States has been in operation since the 1st July, 1941. 
Our primary producers bore the cost of the first two increases, but it was obvious that,unless action was taken to cushion the impact of the further rise of 32s. a ton, the use of this fertilizer in Australia would be curtailed to a minimum, and, as superphosphate plays such an important part in the agricultural economy of this country, the increase would have constituted a serious menace to the efficiency of our rural industries. The Government of the day decided to grant a subsidy of 25s. a ton as from the 1st July, 1941, which meant that the net increase of price to the consumer from that date would be 7s. a ton instead of the full 32s. a ton approved by the Prices Commissioner. This is now operating although the enabling legislation was not passed by the previous Government. The bounty is payable to manufacturers of superphosphate who are required to adjust their prices to consumers so that consumers will receive the full benefit of the subsidy. The bill provides means for an adequate check on all transactions. 
Honorable senators will appreciate that it is not possible to say exactly what amount of money will be involved in the payment of the bounty. The quantity of superphosphate that can be produced in Australia is dependent upon the quantity of rock phosphate available and on the phosphate content of the rock. Imports of rock phosphate cannot be predicted with any certainty, but should they continue at the present rate, probably 400,000 tons of rock will be imported during the twelve months ending the 30th June, 1942. This should represent about 600,000 tons of superphosphate, which, if taken by consumers, would involve bounty payments totalling about £750,000. 
At a recent meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, a scheme of rationing superphosphate submitted by the Department of  Commerce  was unanimously adopted. The scheme was the result of a consultation between repre sentatives of the British Phosphate Commission and the manufacturers. The scheme is based upon the use by each producer of 65 per cent, of the quantity of superphosphate used for the year 1939-40. Despite the reduced production of superphosphate, consequent upon the reduction in the imports of rock phosphate, this allocation to each producer will leave a sufficient reserve to enable crops of flax, vegetables for canning, &amp;c, to receive special attention. The rationing system will work very simply from the Phosphate Commission to the manufacturers, from the manufacturers to the merchants and from the merchants to the producers. Special and doubtful cases will be referred by the manufacturers to the Departments of Agriculture in the States concerned which will decide the relative merits of cases in dispute. Supplies to meet such cases will be obtained from a contingency pool of 5 per cent, that each manufacturer will be asked to hold. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Bounty on production of superphosphate). 
SenatorLECKIE (Victoria) [4.50].- As only the rate of bounty is mentioned in the bill, it would appear that the bounty is to be permanent. Further, the bounty is to be paid to the manufacturer not when the superphosphate is manufactured but when it is sold. Perhaps we can look forward to the time when the war will cease suddenly, and we shall again be able to secure ample supplies of rock phosphate from Nauru at reasonable prices. I take it that the bounty will then cease. However, no limitation of time has been provided for in this measure. The provision whereby  bounty is paid to the manufacturer on sales and not on manufacture will mean that, when the war ceases, farmers will expect to secure superphosphate at lower rates, but manufacturers will then have large stocks on hand for which they have paid high prices. I ask the Minister to look into these discrepancies, and to ensure that manufacturers who have  bought sulphur, sulphuric acid and rock phosphate at high rates, shall be given an opportunity to clear their stocks. We should not assume that the bounty will operate interminably. We should provide against such contingencies in a measure of this kind. 
I assure  Senator Leckie  that the system of rationing is based on the capacity of manufacturers and the quantity of stocks on hand, an inventory of which has been taken. I shall look into the point he has raised regarding the date of expiration of the bounty. That, of course, will depend upon whether necessity for its continuance exists. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 13 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Rill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from4.55 to 5.55 p.m. 

.- I move- 
That the  bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this bill is to grant and apply out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund a sum of £1,400,000 for the repayment to the Commonwealth Bank of advances made by the bank for the purposes of the acquisition and marketing of the 1940-41 crop of apples and pears under the National Security (Apples and Pear Acquisition) Regulations. 
Owing to the unfavorable outlook for any improvement in the export position of fresh fruit in 1941, the Commonwealth Government convened a confer ence of State Ministers of Agriculture and accredited representatives of the apple-growers and pear-growers to consider ways and means of dealing with the new season's crop. Following several further discussions with the States, the Commonwealth Government finally agreed to proposals for a continuation of an acquisition scheme for the following season. The arrangements for 1941, however, differed in the following important respects from those of the previous year: - 
Acquisition was effected on 1st January instead of 1st March; 
Instead of making advances to growers at flat rates, a unit system was adopted, which provided for differential rates as between States and as between varieties of apples and pears produced in each State; 
Fruit had to -be actually delivered before qualifying for advances, except where delivery was not required for marketing. In these cases qualifications for advances were established on the basis of an official tree measurement of the crop at the time of maturity. 
Certain changes were made in the organization of the scheme, and the Apple and Pear Marketing Board was constituted under the regulations to administer the acquisition and marketing arrangements. In accordance with regulation No. 25 of the National Security (Apple and Pear Acquisition) Regulations, arrangements were made with the Commonwealth Bank to advance the amounts necessary to meet the payments of advances to growers, the packing and marketing costs, and administrative and publicity expenses. Sums totalling £3,901,779 were advanced by the bank for the foregoing purposes, subject to the following conditions - 
A guarantee in pursuance of the regulations to be furnished for the full amounts of the advances made by the bank; 
The clearance of outstanding indebtedness before the 31st March, 1942; 
Interest on advances to be charged at the ruling rate for rural credit advances. 
An application has been made to the Commonwealth Bank for a further sum of £255,000, which will make the aggregate advances £4,156,779. So far as it is possible to estimate at this stage, the acquisition and marketing of the 1941 crop will result in a substantial loss of between £1,500,000 and £1,600,000. Last year an amount of £750,000 was appropriated by the Parliament to meet the probable deficiency on the 1940 acquisition scheme. The actual loss on that year, however, will be approximately £605,000, leaving a balance of parliamentary appropriation of £145,000. Honorable senators are now asked to approve of the appropriation of a further £1,400,000 to meet the estimated deficiency. 
In comparing the increased loss on the 1941 season with that of the previous year, there are a number of factors which must be taken into consideration. First, the 1940-41 crop for Australia was of record dimensions, aggregating 15,000,000 bushels of apples and pears. In most .States the crops were heavy, and, in some instances, abnormally heavy. In Tasmania and South Australia particularly, favorable seasonal conditions resulted in crops being exceptionally clean and free from disease. As a consequence, a greater proportion of the total crop in those States has qualified for advances than, would normally be the case. Although a market was found for approximately S,000,000 bushels of fruit, there was no outlet for the remaining 7,000,000 bushels in respect of which growers also received compensation. It should also be noted that the rates of advances to the growers were higher than those paid in 1940. Secondly, in 1940 we were fortunate in securing space for the shipment of about 2,000,000 cases of apples and pears to the United Kingdom for which very remunerative returns were received. This year, however, it has not been possible to ship one case of fresh fruit to England. Thirdly, the marketing results of the board were not so successful as was originally anticipated, owing to the nature of the propaganda directed against the scheme by certain interests. 
During the year the board has taken full advantage of available interstate transport and cool storage accommodation, and arranged to hold record quantities of apples in cool store. A substantial increase of the production of dried apples, from a normal output of 470 tons to 1,250 tons - equivalent to 500,000 bushels of fresh apples - was made possible because of the action taken by the board. This additional tonnage was required to meet the large demands of the Defence services. However, it is not possible to market in Australia or process the whole of the surplus normally exported overseas. Honorable senators will be fully aware that the loss of our main export market for fresh fruit is a serious matter foi1 the apple growers and pear growers. Until these remunerative outlets are again restored, it is obvious that some measure of assistance must be afforded to the industry, and some control exercised over the marketing activities. With the early approach of the new season, the Government will make an announcement soon regarding the policy to be adopted in the future. I commend the bill to the favorable consideration of honorable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That  the  bill be  now  read  a  second time. 
The object of this measure is to amend the Petroleum Oil Search Act in two respects. The first amendment, which relates to section 5, subsection 5, paragraph  a  of the act is purely a drafting amendment designed to dispose of any ambiguity. As the sub-section is at present drafted it is not clear whether the Minister has power to enter into agreements relating to advances as well as to enter into agreements covering the repayment of advances. It was obviously intended that both those powers should be possessed by the Minister, and the amendment now proposed clarifies the position. 
The proposed amendment to section 6 of the principal act has a somewhat wider significance. The intention is to confer upon the Minister power to vary the conditions governing the making of advances, thus affording a measure of flexibility to meet special cases. As in the case of the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited, which is searching for oil in Papua, it might be that a company or individual was unable to provide sufficient capital to comply with the provisions of section 6 in order to become eligible for Commonwealth advances. In those circumstances, although the prospects of discovering oil might be regarded by the Government's technical advisers as favorable, operations might be suspended, and, indeed, would have been, suspended in the case of the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited had Commonwealth Government money not been made available. At a time like the present, and, for that matter, at any time, an obligation rests upon the Government and the people to prosecute the search for oil. It would, therefore, be inimical to the interests of Australia if operations were frustrated through lack of flexibility in legislation governing the search for oil. 
In the case of the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company, the previous Administration had advanced the company £30,000, and had promised to provide a further £20,000, subject to the company making a similar amount available. The company was unable to provide that amount, and when the present Government came into office it faced the situation of either allowing the company to discontinue operations in Papua or providing further government moneys to enable operations to be continued. The prospects of the discovery of oil were regarded favorably by the Commonwealth geological adviser, and he recommended that, notwithstanding the inability of the company to provide its quota, a further £55,000 be provided to enable operations to be brought to completion. In addition to making advances, the previous Administration has loaned to the company a drilling plant owned by the Commonwealth, which cost £25,000. This plant weighs about 500 tons, and when dismantled, parts of it weigh 12 tons. There is no wharf or cranes, and to remove the plant it would be necessary to float it out on pontoons on a suitable tide. In this connexion, it was stated that the tides were suitable only in January and February. The cost of removing the plant to Australia was estimated to be £10,000, and with the hazards associated with the removal the cost might easily be much higher. It was clear, therefore, that if the best use was tobe made of this plant and the Commonwealth interest in it was to be protected, there was no alternative but to provide government moneys to enable boring operations to be continued. It was, therefore, decided to provide a further £20,000 for this purpose to be paid at monthly intervals, subject to close supervision by departmental officers. It is to cover, in the main, such cases as the foregoing that the amendments are proposed. I commend the measure to the Senate with the assurance that, as it deals with the vital question of supplies of oil, it will receive the fullest support of all honorable senators. 
.- This is the most vital bill that has been introduced during the present period of the session. In it, the Government proposes to make a donation to the Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company. Honorable senators should realize what the major oil companies have done for Australia. The Shell Company of Australia Limited has leased86,000 square miles  -  87,000,000 acres - in the south-western portion of Queensland for a period of ten years, with the option  of renewal for a further period of five years. In Western Australia another overseas company has been given rights over an area of 134 square miles. 
Honorable senators opposite, and  Dr. Woolnough, Dr. Ward  and  Dr. Wade. Dr. Wade  left the employ of the Commonwealth to become a servant of the Shell Company of Australia Limited. 
No. 
Now this Government proposes to give a subsidy for failing to find oil. In the House of Representatives a few years ago, after 5,000 barrels of oil had been obtained in Papua, the honorable member for Gippsland  (Mr. Paterson),  who was then a Minister, refused to disclose the name of the company which had found oil. The Commonwealth is operating at Lakes Entrance to-day on the advice of socalled geologists - book-readers who have no practical knowledge of the oil industry. The Lakes Entrance oil-field is a low pressure field, and the passage of time will prove that it is a seepage area. The Government proposes to sink a shaft with Australian labour, but, according to press reports published to-day, American labour will be used for the remainder of the work. After the shaft has been sunk and a chamber excavated, it seems that imported labour will drill by what is termed " a special process ". 
No, but I want to enlighten honorable senators about things that have been done in connexion with the search for oil in Australia which are of vital importance to this country. This bill proposes to render assistance in a way somewhat similar to the assistance being given at Lakes Entrance, and prob ably American labour will be allowed to sabotage the work, as was the case at Roma, which is another seepage field. I desire to place on record my definite protest against this measure. Although I shall support it, I shall do so only because my mental composition is different from that of honorable senators opposite, who have tried consistently to impede the present Government's war effort. The passage of time will prove that I have told the truth when I have said that the major oil companies are robbing Australia. There is no reason why petrol should be rationed here. The truth is that the search for oil is controlled by company directorates with interests all over the world, and  Mr. Walter  Teagle,  chairman  of the Standard Oil Trust, is sitting back in his office in New Jersey directing the affairs of the Commonwealth, both in relation to national economy and its war effort in so far as oil is concerned. We are told that we can have only 12,000,000 or 15,000,000 gallons of petrol annually when four times that quantity should be produced within the country. Oil will be found at Lakes Entrance with a bitumen base and not with a paraffin base. When I die the people of Australia will say that " Old Tom" Arthur told the truth about oil, and that "Harry" Foll sent from Australia the only man who could have discovered oil in Australia. This bill proposes to grant a sum of more than £33,000 of public money to a " gogetting" company. In my opinion the investigation should at least have been carried out by people who know what they are talking about. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till a date and hour to be fixed by the  President,  which time of meeting shall be notified to each senator by telegram or letter. 
In submitting the motion, I take the opportunity, in the absence of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings),  who, unfortunately, has been ill for some days, to offer to you,  Mr. President,  the usual felicitations at the close of the year's work, and to say that every honorable senator has been well satisfied with the way in which you have presided over the Senate and maintained its high traditions. I take this opportunity also to thank  Senator J.  B. Hayes, your predecessor in office, for his valuable services as  President.  To the  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Brown)  and his predecessor  (Senator James McLachlan)  all of us are indebted for excellent service rendered during the year. I refer especially to the clerks at the table and to their staffs, the messengers, and all who have contributed to the efficient working of this branch of the legislature. A special tribute is due to the member;? of the  Hansard  staff, who are doing a wonderful job- a job that probably is not equalled anywhere outside this  Parliament.  I believe that a recognition of the accuracy of their work, and the wonderful help they are to every member of the Senate, should be placed on record. 
I hope that the coming year will usher in brighter days, that victory will come to the armies of the Empire and its allies, and despite the fact that we are closing the year in a time ofterrible stress, with so many of our men out of the country - and for them every senator has the kindliest feelings and gratitude for the wonderful service that they are rendering - we hope and pray that before another year passes the war cloudswil have lifted, victory will have come to our arms, and that Australia will benefit by its efforts. 
The Government offers to every member of the Opposition its best wishes for the coming year, and hopes that we shall all return in good health to carry on with the important work ahead of us. 
On behalf of the Leader of the Senate I express to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  and the  Deputy  Leader  (Senator McBride)  our appreciation of their courtesy to us in assisting the despatch of the business of the Senate. This is one of the few occasions during the year when we can lay aside official cares and join in expressing mutual good wishes. 
 I endorse the remarks of the Acting Leader of the Senate  (Senator Keane)  as to the way in which you,  Mr. President  have presided over the Senate. Every honorable senator regrets that the distinguished Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  is unable to be present, through sickness.  We  regret also the absence, for the same reason, of Senators Lamp and Uppill. I could not let this occasion pass without saying that the thoughts of all of us are with  Senator Wilson,  who is overseas with the Australian Imperial Force. 
To you,  Mr. President,  the Opposition extends its best wishes. Every member of the Opposition appreciates the generous treatment that he has received from the stall during the year. 
Having had experience ourselves in the control of departments, it is fitting that we on this side of the chamber should say to the members of the Government that we appreciate the difficult task which confronts them. We wish them health and strength and the best of luck in tackling these difficult and important problems. I trust that in the New Year the international situation will be much brighter than it is to-day. 
 I thank the Acting Leader of the Senate  (Senator Keane)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  for their kind references to myself, and I express my appreciation of their references to the members of the staff of the Senate. I take  this  opportunity also to extend to honorable senators my thanks for their courteous and kindly treatment since I have presided over this chamber. I extend my thanks also to the members of the  Hansard  staff for the service that they have rendered in this chamber. 
I wish every member of the Senate and of the staff of the Senate a merry Christmas and prosperous New Year. I sincerely hope that when we meet again next March the international outlook will be brighter, and that the efforts of the members of the British Commonwealth of Nations and their allies to preserve freedom will have been successful. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I regret exceedingly that the Government has seen fit to disagree with these amendments. There has been a consultation with the Government on the matter, and the Senate. has again been placed in rather a false position, inasmuch as the committee on taxation which reviewed the incidence of this amending Income Tax Assessment Bill came to certain decisions, in regard to which the members of the Senate were not consulted. Apparently the Government holds the view that acceptance of the Senate's amendment to exempt the first £50 in respect of calls paid to mining companies would mean the subsidizing of the investment by S3 per cent. According to the figures supplied by the Government, it would appear that under the amendment the exemption would increase alarmingly compared with the pre-war exemption. On an income of £300, the tax benefit received by the taxpayer prior to the war, in respect of a payment amounting to £50, was 16s. 7d. Under my amendment, it would be increased to £6 13s. 4d. The Government proposes to increase it to £1 2s. 3d., consequently the investor will receive some additional benefit. So the story continues, until the wealthy mining investor on the £5,000 mark is reached. His tax benefit, pre-war, amounted to £10 7s. 9d. This would be increased to £41 13s. 4d. under my amendment, and to £108s. 4d. under the proposal of the Government. I am not particularly interested in the wealthy mining investor, but I am concerned about the gold-mining industry of Western Australia. The Government is doing a disservice to that industry by declining to accept some amendment, if not the amendment passed by the Senate. I had no intention of asserting that the £50, representing the initial exemption, should be a rigid figure. It could be reduced, and the more highly salaried man could be restricted by the limitation or cancellation of the deduction when the amount paid in mining calls exceeded, say,  £200  or  £250.  The Government remained adamant, however, and we have no alternative but to accept its decision. It would appear that the Government does not think the industry as important as we consider it to be. I repeat that the gold-mining and oil exploration industries and afforestation schemes will be affected by this tax, because once we commence a policy of whittling away inducements to pay calls no one knows where it may stop. The effect of this measure on the investing public may be detrimental to these industries.  In future when committees are appointed representative of all parties in this Parliament to inquire into the effect of proposed legislation, this chamber should be properly represented. Honorable senators should refuse to continue to be the " Yes men " of the members of the House of Representatives. I have consistently objected to the Senate being placed in such a position. The Government does not improve its standing in this chamber by ignoring the rights of honorable senators to participate in the deliberations of such committees. 
.- When I opposed the amendment originally submitted by  Senator Allan  MacDonald, I was under the impression that this chamber was represented on the committee appointed by the Government to inquire into the effect of its proposals in relation to the imposition of income tax and other taxes. I agree with the honorable senator that when committees of that kind are appointed in future this chamber should be adequately represented. When I learned to-day that no honorable senator had been appointed to the committeeI made strong representations to the Government that in future the Senate be given adequate representation on any committee which may be appointed to advise the Government with respect to any measures that may be initiated in or may ultimately reach this chamber. I was a consistent advocate of such a course when I was in opposition and I depart not one iota from the attitude that I then took up. Had this chamber been represented on the committee set up by the Government to consider the proposals contained in this and similar bills the passage of this bill would not have been delayed. I assure the honorable senator that the practice of past governments in ignoring this chamber will not be continued. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence Coordination,  upon notice - 
Has the Government any idea when the Man-power Priorities Board will complete its survey of the man-power available to the fighting services? 
Will the Government instruct that committee to embody in its reportan estimate of the number of men of military age occupying positions which could be filled by women, older men,and youths? 
The Minister for Defence Co-ordination has supplied  the  following answers :  - 
A number of surveys of the Australian man-power position has already been made. These are in the hands of the Government. 
Action is being taken in this matter, and the Man-power Priorities Board has been requested to report along these lines. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply and Development,  upon notice- - 
Is the Minister correctly reported as saying in the news bulletin broadcast at 7.15 p.m. on the 20th November, 1941, that there had been trouble between the Capital Issues Advisory Board and the Baerami shale mine, and that if u decision was not made soon, the Government might be prepared to take direct action to develop the field? 
If the Minister has  been  correctly reported, will he state what direct action he has in mind? 
To what end would such action lead? 
The Minister for Supply and Development has supplied the following answers: - 
I invite the attention of the honorable senator to the information furnished by the Minister for Supply' and Development to a question asked by the honorable member for Robertson  (Mr. Spooner)  on the 20th November. This is reported on page 637 of proof copy ofHansurd on the 20th-21st November, 1041. To the extent that the news bulletin broadcast referred to varied from such information, the news bulletin broadcast is incorrect. 
and 3. The Commonwealth Government is in consultation with the Government of New South Wales to ascertain whether that Government has any proposals in hand or in mind for the development of the Baerami field, and whether Commonwealth co-operation is desired. The matter is being followed up urgently. The action is regular, and is; in fact, necessary because mining, except within the territories controlled by the Commonwealth, is a State function, and all mining leases and conditions governing mining, therefore, come within the scope of the State authority. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for' Repatriation,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate when the annual reports of the Repatriation Com-  missionand the War Service Homes Commission will be available? 
The Minister for Repatriation has supplied the following answer :  - 
The annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended the30th June, 1941, was tabled in the Senate on the 25th November, 1941. Theannual report of the War Service Homes Commission for the same period will be tabled shortly. 
 by leave  - read a copy of the ministerial statement delivered in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Dr. Evatt)  (vide  page 1084), and laid on the table the following papers: - 
Documents relating to United States of America-Japanese Conversations, NovemberDecember, 1941. 
Declaration of existence of state of war with Finland, Hungary, Rumania and Japan, 8th December, 1941- Documents relating to procedure of His Majesty's Government, in the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Motion (by  Senator Collings)  proposed - 
That the papers be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLeay)  adjourned. 

 .-by leave - I move - 
That the Senate approves of the action of His Majesty's Government in the Commonwealth in having advised the issue of proclamations declaring the existence of a state of war with Japan, Finland, Hungary, and Rumania. Further, the Senate hereby pledges itself to take every step deemed necessary to defend this Commonwealth and its territories, to carry on hostilities in association with our allies, and to achieve final victory over our enemies. 
I second the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I direct the attention of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  to certain articles which appeared in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  yesterday and to-day in which scathing references are made to the officer in command of the British Far Eastern Forces, the Chief of the Australian General Stall, the Chief of the Air Staff in Australia and others associated with our war services. I should be the last to suggest that any deficiencies in the matter of equipment or in relation to all of our war activities in the Far East should not be subject to criticism, or investigation, but I do not think that such damaging attacks should be permitted in the early stages of a campaign such as that in which we arc now engaged, when, as the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  pointed out, the initial advantage gained by our new enemy, Japan, resulted from a base, cowardly, and treacherous attack. Whether we be members of Parliament, contributors to the press, or other members of the public, if we desire that Australia should put forward its full war effort, it is unwise at this particular time to indulge in a campaign against the leaders of our land forces or our air forces, unless we are sure that they have committed blunders. If they have made Blunders, it is then the duty of the Government to act. In my opinion, statements such as those published in the press this morning have a very disturbing and a disquieting effect upon the community at this time of crisis. 
I have mentioned the matter with the sole desire to assist the war effort. 1 wish to be sure that statements which are not fully founded on facts, or which have a disquieting effect upon public morale, are not made at a time when it is necessary for the whole of the people to stand unitedly behind their leaders. 
.  - in  reply  - Articles of the kind to which the honorable senator has referred are not new or unusual, as far as the newspaper mentioned byhim is concerned.I assure the Senate that the. matter is receiving the attention ofthe Government, and that an announcement will be made later. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. PAPERS. 
The following papers were presented :  - 
Arbitration (Public Service) Act - Determinations by  the  Arbitrator, &amp;c. - 
No. 34 of 1941 - Commonwealth Public Service Artisans' Association. 
No. 35of 1941- Fourth Division Postmasters. Postal Clerks andTele- graphists' Union. 
No.36 of 1941 - Australian Third Division Telegraphists and Postal Clerks' Union. 
No.37 of 1941 - Arms Explosives and Munition Workers' Federation of Australia. 
No. 38 of 194 1- Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. 
Commonwealth Public Service Act - 
Eighteenth Report on the Commonwealth Public Service by the Public Service Board, dated 11th December, 1041. 
Regulations - Statutory Rules 1941, No. 284. 
Customs Act - Proclamation, dated 26th November, 1941, prohibiting the exportation (except under certain conditions) of Binoculars. 
Defence Act and Naval Defence Act - Regulations - Statutory Rules 1941, No. 285. 
Lands Acquisition Act - Land acquired at - Archerfield, Queensland - For Defence purposes. 
Darwin, Northern Territory - For Defence purposes. 
Dural, Now South Wales - For Postal purposes. 
Ingleburn. New South Wales - For Defence purposes. 
Redbank. Queensland - For Defence purposes. 
National Security Act - 
National Security (General ) Regulations - By-laws - Controlled Areas (2). orders - 
Inventions and designs (JOS). 
Motor Spirit War Reserves Storage. 
Prohibited Places (8). 
Prohibited Places and Protected Areas. 
Protected Areas. 
Taking possession of land, &amp;c. (40). Use of land (20). Regulations - Statutory Rules, 1941, Nos. 273, 274, 275, 270, 277, 278, 279, 280. 281. 282, 283, 280. 
Papua Act - Ordinances of 1941 - 
No. 10 - Native Crown Servants. 
No. 11 - Superannuation. 
Seat of Government Acceptance Act and Scat of Government (Administration) Act - Regulations of 1941 - No.9 - (Motor Traffic Ordinance). 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce state when the first payment will be made on this season's wheat, and how much a bushel will be paid ? 
SenatorFRASER. - The Minister for Commerce has already stated in the' House of Representatives that 3s. a bushel will be paid for bagged wheat and 2s.10d. a bushel for bulk wheat, and that the payment will be made as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Commerce,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister call for a report for the information of the Senate on the progress beingmadeintheGovernment control of interstate shipping. 
Is it a fact that passenger accommodation and cargo space on these vessels are not utilized to their fullest capacity. 
What passenger accommodation and cargo space were available between Fremantle, Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney, during the past three months, and what space was empty during the voyages in that period. 
SenatorFRASER.-The Minister for Commerce has supplied the following answers :  - 
Satisfactory progress is being made in the Government control of interstate shipping. It is not considered necessary to call for any special report upon the matter. 
No. 
Much research would be necessary to compile this information. The information, when compiled, would not be of national value and, under present conditions, stuff is not available to do unnecessary work. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Will the Government take action under the National Security Regulations to ensure that sufficient space and time arc made available by press and radio, respectively, to all sections of thought on political and financial problems. 
Will the Government license the press and radio with a view to their informing the public of the truth on all political and financial matters. 
Will the Government also take power to suspend the newspaper or radio concerned and to cancel its licence in the event of the truth upon such matters being withheld or distorted. 
The reply to the honorable senator's questions is as follows :  -  1., 2. and 3. - The Government already possesses the power to compel newspapers and broadcasting stations to observe the requirements of national security. It is not proposed to extend this power in the manner suggested by the honorable senator. 
I appreciate the attitude of the Government in agreeing yesterday to the adjournment of the debate on this motion in order to give to the Opposition an opportunity to study the statement dealing with international affairs, which is a brief historical record of the events leading up to the declaration of war by Japan. I am sure that all honorable senators appreciate both the importance of the statement and the great difficulties that confront the Empire. It is the duty of the Opposition to speak fearlessly, and to give to the Government all the support it needs in these difficult times, not hesitating to make suggestions which it considers essential to the safety of Australia and of the British Empire generally, and of the democracies throughout the world. An interesting feature of the statement read to us yesterday by the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  was that it disclosed that, despite all we had hoped from countries that have made progress, international agreements and other solemn documents are still treated lightly by some nations. I propose to quote the following paragraph that appeared in the statement read by the Minister in connexion with the Hague Convention No. 3, of 1907: - 
The Hague Convention No. 3 of 1907, which was ratified by both Japan and the United States, provided that hostilities between the Contracting Powers " must not commence without a previous and explicit warning, in the form of cither a declaration of war, giving reasons, or an intimation with a conditional declaration of war ". Even those who contend that war may legitimately be commenced without prior declaration or notice oppose the opinion that one country may be justified in taking another unawares. According to Westlake, " an attack which nothing had foreshadowed would be infamous ". In the present case, diplomatic negotiations were still in progress; therefore the action of Japan was indeed both " infamous " and " treacherous ". 
Despite that solemn agreement," it has been treated as a scrap of paper, and that fact should be a guide to us for the future as to the faith we should have in international agreements. Having examined the ministerial statement carefully, and having heard what was said on this subject in the House of Representatives, I should like the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  to advise us as to what was meant by the paragraph which I propose to quote. It contains a comment which is serious and farreaching, and discloses that great difference of opinion between the Labour party and the party to which I have the honour to belong. The paragraph reads - 
But what of the defence of these shores? The Government has been stocktaking. It has inherited a situation in which, for one reason or another, the defence of our country has been treated as a subordinate and subsidiary part of a distant war. From now onwards we shall be thrown back more and more upon our own resources. " Tis well! I from this day forward we shall know 
That in ourselves our safety must be sought ; 
That by our own right hands it must be wrought; 
That we must stand unpropped, or be laid low." 
I do not raise this subject with any desire to embarrass the Government; I bring it forward in the most friendly and sincere spirit. I do say, however, that I have frequently been embarrassed by statements made by prominent Labour leaders since the outbreak of war as to the wisdom of sending expeditionary forces overseas. The statement which I have read seems to express an attitude of cynical isolation. I appeal to the Government to face the fact that the safety of Australia still depends largely upon the British navy and the success of allied arms in other parts of the world. I have noticed a tendency on the part of some Labour leaders to disagree with the policy of previous governments in sending troops to Malaya, Egypt, Syria, Iran,  Russia  and Great Britain. 
If the honorable senator will read  Hansard  he will find that prominent Labour leaders have said that they were not in favour of sending expeditionary forces overseas. We on this side of the chamber believe that we can never repay Great Britain for what was accomplished at Dunkirk. We agree with  Mr. Churchill  that "never did so many owe so much to so few ". I remind the Senate of the gallant fight that has been put up by naval men in the battle of the Atlantic, and of the heroic struggle of the people of London and other parts of Great Britain. Knowing something of what they have suffered we agree that it was a privilege to give to them whatever help we have been able to give. Had we been able to do more for them, we could not have done too much. I disagree with the statement that Australia has not paid proper regard to the defence of this country. In the sacrifice of others we have sheltered ; their success has been our protection. I sincerely trust that at the conclusion of this sitting we can return to our homes with an assurance from the Labour Government that it will do all in its power to ensure that adequate reinforcements will be sent to Malaya, Syria, Iran and Egypt in order that those who have gone there to fight our 'battles will not 'be left stranded. This is a matter of the utmost importance. 
I agree with the honorable senator, but I do not approve of the ostrich-like attitude of some supporters of the Government who appear to think that we should not send men or ships beyond Australian territorial waters in order to fight an enemy as far as possible from our shores. Before the Senate rises for the Christmas recess I hope to receive an assurance from the Government that, if necessary reinforcements will be sent overseas. 
I appreciate the prompt action of the Government following the declaration of war with Japan, and I realize the difficulties confronting it in regard to the best utilization of our man-power. The Government has been in office for a little over ten weeks, and I assure it that the Opposition has followed its proposals closely during that period. I urge the Government to hasten the fulfilment of the promise made ten weeks ago to divert labour from non-essential industries to war activities. 
I also urge an amendment of the National Security Act in order to vest in the Government complete powers for the mobilization of man-power, womanpower, wealth and industry, in order that it may be unfettered in its attempts to do all that it considers necessary for the safety of Australia. I draw attention to paragraph  a  of sub-section (7) of section 5 of the National Security Act which reads - 
Nothing in this section shall authorize - 
the imposition of any form of compulsory naval, military or air-force service, or any form) of industrial conscription, or the extension of any existing obligation to render compulsory naval, military or air force service. 
In order that the Government shall have the fullest powers, I urge that that paragraph be repealed. In doing so, I realize that the legislation of which it forms a part was introduced by a Government of which I was a member. However, the situation has changed entirely since that measure was introduced. I also draw attention to section 13a which reads - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Governor-General may make such regulations making provision for requiring persons to place themselves, their services and their property at the disposal of the Commonwealth,  as  appear to him to be necessary or expedient for securing the public safety, the defence of the Commonwealth and the Territories of the Commonwealth, or theefficient prosecution ofany war in which His Majesty is or maybe engaged: 
Provided that nothing in this section shall authorize the imposition of any form of compulsory service beyond the limits of Australia. 
When the National Security Bill was before the Senate we had an opportunity to discuss the effects of the proviso which I have just read, but since then the position has entirely changed. With war in the Pacific we know that at any time it may become necessary to send men from Australia to Portuguese Timor, the Malay States, Singapore, New Guinea, the Netherlands East Indies, the Pacific Islands or even to our sister dominion, New Zealand. An undesirable position exists to-day under the law as it stands. We are compelling men to serve in the MilitiaForces, but the Government has no power to send them to the Pacific Islands in case or emergency. The position is urgent; the time factor must be considered. Some of our opponents will undoubtedly contend that in saying this I am advocating conscription. Suggestions have been made in the press that an Australian war zone, including certain Pacific islands, should be defined. I urge the Government to give very earnest consideration to the desirability of repealing the sections of the National Security Act to which I have referred. If these sections are repealed it will not mean that we shall have conscription, but that the Government will have full power in case of an emergency to provide for the adequate defence of this country. The Government could then declare by regulation that our Militia Forces shall be sent to islands near Australia or to any part of the world at a moment's notice if their presence is required elsewhere to stem a likely attack upon this country. I regard this matter as of extreme urgency and I trust that it will he so considered by the Government. 
My third suggestion is that the Leader of the Senate should approach the Prime Minister and ask him again, in view of the grave emergency that confronts us, to consent to the formation of a national government. Whatever criticisms maybe levelled against this Parliament it is the highest authority in the land. The people of Australia are looking to responsible leaders of all parties for a lead in this great crisis. I say with all sincerity that if I were asked by the people to-day to name the greatest service this Parliament could render to the war effort I would say unhesitatingly that it would be the formation of a national government. If the Government is not prepared to agree to such a proposal I suggest that it give consideration to the establishment of a Supreme War Council clothed with full executive authority to enable it to make quick decisions in regard to the war policy of Australia. 1 suggest that a Supreme War Council be composed of a small number of representatives of each party in this Parliament, that it be clothed with full power to deal with matters relating to the war, and that the administration of other departments be left to their present Ministers. If that were done we would set a splendid example of solidarity to the people of Australia; but if we continue as we have been going in the past we cannot hope to inspire the people toa 100 per cent. war effort. 
The Leader of the Senate has not been very long in office, but he must appreciate the difficulties that confront Ministers in these troublous times. I suggest that it is impossible for Ministers looking after big departments such as the Department of Munitions and the Department of Supply and Development to attend meetings of the Advisory War Council, the War Cabinet, the full Cabinet and, finally, the Labour caucus to see if the decisions which they have made are supported by their party. That cumbersome procedure occupies four out of five days every week. Is it possible to get quick decisions when all of these formalities have first to be overcome? Let us consider fora moment what happened last week. Executive officers from the service departments in Melbourne were summoned to be in constant attendance at meetings of the Advisory War Council and the 
War Cabinet and to advise Ministers generally on all aspects of the developments in the Pacific. Yet when we came here on Monday morning we found that these men who had been called upon to work long hours after Cabinet meetings had ended were in Canberra attending to the requirements of Ministers. While they are here their important work in Melbourne is being neglected. 
It is not conducted as efficiently and as expeditiously in their absence as is desirable. I take this opportunity to pay the highest tribute to the executive officers of Commonwealth departments. I have had the privilege of seeing them at work, and I know of no body of men more steadfast in applying themselves to their duties. We are testing them to the utmost physically and mentally. If the Government accepts my suggestion and appoints a Supreme War Council, not only shall we get quick decisions, not only will honorable senators be given an opportunity to play a more important part in the war effort, hut also the executive heads of service departments will be relieved of the necessity of attending these many council and Cabinet meetings, and our war effort will progress more smoothly than it has in the past. Former Ministers of the Crown will gladly accept any task allotted  to  them. At the last general elections held about fifteen months ago more than onehalf of the electors of Australia voted for representatives of the United Australia party and the United Country party in this Senate and elected sixteen out of the nineteen candidates elected to this chamber. The party which I represent said to the people at that time, " If we are returned to office we shall do everything in our power to form a national government". It would give the greatest satisfaction to those who supported the parties now sitting in opposition if we could achieve our objective of a national government, but failing that they would be satisfied with the appointment of a Supreme War Council, because such a body would protect all interests, make quick decisions and attack in a resolute manner every important problem that came before it. I sincerely trust that the Government will give urgent consideration to the three suggestions that I have just made. In conclusion, I  assure the Government that I shall be only too pleased to assist it in whatever way it may think that I can do so. At the same time, however, the Opposition in this chamber owes a duty to the people of tin's country. I shall certainly take every opportunity in this chamber to express my convictions regardless of their popularity or otherwise. 
.- I view the present situation not as a politician, but as a General. I picture myself in command of a division which may or may not be supported when engaged, determined to fight to a finish. Opposite the area for which I am responsible, is a locality which an enemy desires to secure. 'Some units of the division are fighting hard to deny him the right to occupy that locality from which he could launch a large-scale offensive. If I sat tight and did not strengthen those forward units I would soon be replaced. On the Western Front in theGreat War such situations did occur. The responsible General put forth every effort short of involving his whole command - to remove the menace - to deny the Germans permanent occupancy. ChippleySpur, on the 8th August,1918, stands out vividly in my mind as one example. Itis a minor example, perhaps, but the analogy between Singapore and Australia holds good. Singapore is a locality; if occupied by the Japanese, will he a menace to Australia. We must, with other Empire troops, remove that menace. Japan might, not consider an efficient, determined Australian Army a sufficient deterrent to launch a large scale attack. The unexpected is continually happening in this war. What, is the proper course of action ? Sit down and wait forthe enemy? No! Do everything possible without unduly depleting or jeopardizing the main force which might be required in ease of failure. 
Reinforce our men in Malaya. Where are these reinforcements coming from? The Militia, of course, no other source. We cannot, send self-contained units but we can send individuals anxious to transfer  to  the Australian Imperial Force 
Hundreds are straining at the leash to go overseas, but their names are just taken and recorded as Australian Imperial Force reserves. That is not good enough. The strength of a modern division, including all ranks, is 13,000. Following major operations extending over a period of two or three weeks and involving heavy casualties, a division usually requires 50 per cent, reinforcements to replace casualties and other wastage. The reason given for debarring enlistment from the Militia is that the organization will be disturbed and gaps created in the ranks. My answer is : Call up more men and more men not engaged in essential civil services and production of war material, and replace them by older military unfit mcn, women and youths. 
I have always advocated, as a deterrent to a large scale invasion, a home defence army of 500,000 men including replacements, backed by a strong air force. A deterring force with the frontier locality or localities blocked is preferable to a deterring force with all the avenues of approach open to the invader. The former keeps the enemy off, the latter contains an element of danger. "We must not, risk war coming to Australia. Head it away at whatever cost. Sooner or later wo must expect air raids on certain localities. They are inevitable. Our virile Royal Australian Air Force cannot be everywhere. Japanese bombers are bound to get through somewhere. I hope that the Government will take steps to enlarge the zone of Australia's defence system to include distant locations which might be used as bases for enemy operations southward. 
.- I endorse the suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  that the Government should immediately amend the National Security Act in the directions he has indicated. Should Parliament fail to give such power to the Government before it adjourns for the Christmas recess, we shall be guilty of criminal folly in so far as the safety of this country is concerned. At a time like the present, we cannot afford to discuss the merits and demerits of conscription for service beyond our shores. We are faced with the fact that within a comparatively short distance from this country stands an enemy of over 100,000,000 people. That nation possesses a powerful fleet, and has gained an initial advantage by its treacherous violation of a pact to which it was a signatory at The Hague. Without warning, it set upon its neighbours, and in so doing gained .a considerable advantage. In addition, the measure of our security has been seriously reduced as the result of the loss of the British battleship  Prince of Wales  and the battle cruiser  Repulse.  We arc not here to criticize those responsible for that disaster, should such responsibility rest upon any one. We only regret that the brave efforts which those ships put forward was not successful. At the same time, we must recognize that as the result of that loss, the danger to Australia has become more imminent. It is useless to reply to the Opposition's request that the Government be given unshackled power in this emergency by saying that we ourselves failed to take such power when we were in office. Had we done so at that particular time we should have caused a controversy both inside and outside of this Parliament which would have seriously impaired our war effort. Since then, however, circumstances have changed considerably. My sole reason for urging the Government to amend the National Security Act in the directions indicated by my leader is in order that the Government shall not find itself handicapped for want of that power in an extreme emergency. 
It is not so much a matter of getting men, but rather whether the Government will lack power which it may require in an extreme emergency. At present we are handicapped by the National Security Act and the Defence Act because we cannot utilize those, acts to the fullest degree. It is only fair that we should have some regard for what is being done by our neighbours and allies. When Japan struck, one of the first acts of the United States of America was to remove whatever obstacles existed to the sending of American troops to any part of the world. Legislation to give that authority to the executive was passed through the United States of America Congress without debate, so that no handicap would exist in the prosecution of the war. At present, the Defence Act and the National Security Act place us in an anomalous position. The Government could send militia units to Papua but, although they could proceed as far as the Dutch border, they could not legally cross that border should the enemy land in the adjoining Dutch territory. The position is ludicrous. The Government should have power to send our troops into these territories should the necessity arise, and such a contingency is not at all improbable. Within a few hours of Japan's move into Thailand and Malaya, owing to the great demand made upon Empire air force units stationed in theFar East - apparently there was not the volume of air support that we should have liked - our allies in the Netherlands East Indies, who have built up a substantial air force in a comparatively short time, sent air force units into Malaya in order to assist our troops. We should be in a position to reciprocate by going to the aid of the Netherlands East Indies should the need arise. It may be deemed necessary in the near future that militia units at Darwin should go to adjoining territories such as Timor or other islands only a few miles from our coast, but unless the Defence Act be amended, that could not he done. So far as I know no such limitation exists in other dominions or in other Pacific countries. The Government of our sister dominion, New Zealand, has assumed full power to send men to any part of the world where it is thought the battle of New Zealand can best be fought, and apparently the same position applies in the Netherland East Indies. The Government should at least adopt the suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition for the creation of an Australian defence zone and thus avoid the necessity to call Parliament together should the sending of troops to adjoining territories become imperative in the near future. 
SenatorFOLL. - That is merely a catch-cry which the honorable senator has seized upon. As I said earlier, it might be deemed necessary to send some of our fully equipped anti-aircraft batteries to adjacent territories. I merely cited that unit as an example of what could be done. No one on this side of the chamber has ever suggested that Australian soldiers should be sent away without equipment, and no government of which I have been a member has ever sent our men away without proper equipment. It is true that we have not at all times had all the equipment that we should have liked, but on all occasions, before Australian troops went into action, we insisted that they should be adequately equipped. That assurance was always sought and secured. I remind  Senator Arthur,  who is so ready to make suggestions, that few people know the difficulties which have confronted the heads of the service departments in equipping our men. Yesterday, on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, I spoke for a few minutes regarding articles in a Sydney newspaper which practically pilloried three or four heads of our defence services. It was most unfair to select men like  Sir Charles  Burnett, Major-General Gordon Bennett,  Sir Robert  Brooke-Popham, and LieutenantGeneral Sturdee for such attacks. I know, and honorable senators opposite know, of the difficulties that had to be faced in the early days of munitions manufacture and aircraft production in this country. Our war industries started about two years ago from practically nothing. On numerous occasions orders were placed overseas and advice was received from the Old Country that certain engines, guns and equipment of all kinds had left for Australia, only to be sunk by enemy action. The problems which confronted the heads of the service departments and the service Ministers themselves, under such conditions were of a tremendous character, and they still arise. Therefore, I do not intend to rush in blindly to criticize even my political opponents who are now in control of the service departments. Such criticism should be made only in the light of the fullest information, and not merely for the sake of criticizing. No doubt our troubles will be even greater than they have been in the past, and it ill-becomes anyof us toattempt toallowmenwho have rendered splendid service to their country. If it can be proved that men are incompetent, then no doubt the Government has the power to replace them, but, merely for the sake of cheap popularity and notoriety, I have no intention of joining in a heresy hunt or a head-hunting competition until I know definitely that some one has fallen down on his job. It was not until the outbreak of war that the Empire Air Training Scheme was brought into being. The war was actually in progress before the foundations of the scheme were laid. A former Minister for Air, the late Mr.Fairbairn, accompanied by certain air force officials, proceeded to Canada and laid the foundations of the scheme. I am not exaggerating when I say that the work being done under that scheme may turn the scales in favour of the Empire, because it will assure an adequate supply of pilots and other airmen. I recall the difficulties with which we were faced owing to certain differences of opinion among some of the senior officers of the Royal Australian Air Force when the scheme was launched, and I know how essential it was that Australia should obtain from overseas the services of an officer of the type of  Sir Charles  Burnett. It was necessary that we should not only get the benefit of the vast experience of such an officer, but also send some of our own young officers abroad for training. At that time our Air Force was comparatively small. If honorable senators will recall its dimensions at the time of the Munich incident, as compared with its strength to-day, I think that it will be agreed that the officials at the head of it are entitled to a great deal of credit for the improvement that has been effected. Similar remarks are applicable to many of our other service chiefs. It is not sound policy, because the war seems to have gone against us at the outset, to look around for scapegoats. At present we must hold our chins up and keep our heads cool. We should have faith in our leaders until it has been actually demonstrated that they have fallen down on their job. We should not commence a heresy hunt amongst officers on the administrative side of our fighting services. Statements made by amateur strategists should be discounted, because those critics are not acquainted with the control and organization of the various branches of the fighting service. 
I was pleased recently to notice that the Government had announced that it would review the list of exempted occupations. I have always held the opinion that large numbers of persons who are sheltering in reserved occupations could well be called upon to strike a blow for their country. I have contended that the list of reserved occupations was drawn up too much in accordance with old-world conditions, and in a manner suitable for a much larger population than that of Australia. I hope that the Government will not be stampeded, as the result of representations made to it from time to time, into receding from the stand that it has made with regard to the list of reserved occupations. I still believe that it will be found necessary to mobilize woman-power, so that women may take the place of men now employed in reserved occupations. We must realize that the population of this country is only about 7,000,000. I have no doubt that Britain and her Allies will finally smash the Japanese forces ; but, if the war lasts a long time, and the Japanese are able to continue the minor successes that they have already gained, it may be necessary for every man who is capable of doing something in the defence of this country to be called upon to do so. The Government should not hesitate to take every necessary power to ensure that all members of the community pull their full weight in the defence of Australia. If people ask me whether in a national emergency I am in favour of the conscription of wealth and property, I say definitely that I am, because I believe that the Government of the day should take everything that is required for defence purposes. If men are called upon to give their lives in the defence of Australia, the Government should not hesitate to take anything that it requires from individuals. What is there of greater value that we could lose than our lives and the right to live in freedom? To me every inch of our land is sacred.  Mr. Churchill,  after the disaster at Dunkirk, told the Huns that if they effected a landing on British soil they would be fought in every city, town, village and street. That is the spirit of the people of Australia. Every one of us should he prepared to do all he can to ensure that no alien invader shall set foot in this country. I am prepared to give to the Government in an honorary capacity any service of which I am capable. I shall gladly do that because we have now reached a time when we in list forget party divisions and all pull together. The enemy is only two days' sail from our shores. We are fighting against an unscrupulous and well organized foe. There is nothing that we should not be prepared to do to ensure the safety of this country. 

 Senator AMOUR (New South Wales) [3.55  . - I believe that the present Government has done its job well, and I appreciate the lucid statement on international affairs submitted yesterday by the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley).  The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  made a serious mistake when he said that when Ministers were unable to attend their departments in the capital cities 100 per cent, war effort was not being obtained. It ill becomes the Leader of the Opposition to suggest that departmental heads and other government officials do not give their best services when the Minister in charge of a department is not present. 
 He did not say anything of the kind. 
He said that when the Minister was not present a 100 per cent, effort was not being obtained, but that is not a true statement. What a Minister can do in Melbourne he can also do in Canberra, Sydney or Brisbane. He is quite capable of doing his job on behalf of the people of Australia, irrespective of where his services may bc required for the time being. 

 Senator Foll referred to the statement by  Mr. Churchill  after the withdrawal from Dunkirk, and stated that  Mr. Churchill  had declared that, if the Germans landed in Britain, every town, village and street would be defended.  Senator Foll  went on to say that Australia would be defended in a similar manner if the enemy came to our shores. Yet he  i3  prepared to see Australia denuded of its man-power in order that islands around Australia may be defended. My recollection of what  Mr. Churchill  said was that the British forces would defend Britain first, the trade routes second, the dominions third and the colonies fourth, and that if the colonies were lost they could be re-taken later. At the outbreak of the present war  Senator Brand  declared that Australia would never again be prepared to have its man-power depleted. At that time the Japanese had not entered the war, and Japan had not joined the Axis Powers. The late  Mr. Street,  formerly Minister for the Army, made a similar statement at a time when Japan had not entered the war, but to-day Japan is knocking at the door of Australia and we cannot prevent it. But we can defend Australia by having such a force in this country that will be capable of doing the job. Our men should be not only equipped, but they should have equipment of the best quality and in such quantity as is required. I should like to see the Australian Imperial Force brought back from Syria to Malaya. I should feel much more contented, and I believe that the people of Australia generally would feel much safer, if the Australian troops now in Syria were in Malaya. We have capable airmen and trained pilots who could be brought backto Australia for the purpose of operating machines in this country in order to defend our women and children. I should like to see those who have been sent to Canada under the Empire Air Training Scheme brought back to Australia for a similar purpose. I am opposed to any man leaving Australia until such time as the British or American fleets, in cooperation, can stem the Japanese attack, and clear Malaya and the Philippines of the invaders, as well as drop a few bombs on Tokyo. Then Australia could review the position, but, until such time as we have driven the invaders back, Australians - men, women and children - should be protected. 
In defending an island which may mean nothing to Australia, we may lose Australia. 
SenatorFoll.  -  The defence of some islands to the north of Australia may mean a lot to us. 
I am concerned with the defence of Australia. Too long has international capital controlled the world to its own advantage and the disadvantage of the people generally. 
SenatorFoll.  -  We do not want the enemy to get bases near to Australia. 
I am concerned with protecting first the people of this country, just as the people of Great Britain are concerned primarily with their own safety. Why any member of this Parliament should say that the statement that Australian soldiers left this country without proper equipment is untrue, I cannot understand, because, unfortunately, it  is  true that Australian soldiers who fought in Libya, Greece and Crete did not have proper equipment. Surely no honorable senator feels proud of that record. We must ensure that no man will again leave Australia without proper equipment, and continuous supplies of food and equipment. Those on whom may fall the responsibility of defending our shores are entitled to the best equipment possible, and that is why we need order, not panic, in the community. Nothing is to be gained by having people running from place to place uncertain what to do next. We should see that our rural population continues to work in an orderly way until itis required for other purposes associated with the defence of the Commonwealth. Those responsible for maintaining our food supplies should be allowed to continue working in an orderly way. Indeed, every person in the community should be encouraged to carry on in his usual occupation until called up for service in the Army, or in some other capacity, and when called up he should know that he will be properly trained and given the maximum of protection. It is futile to put men into uniform unless they are supplied with rifles or other equipment. 
The Government has done a good job in connexion with air raid precautions. In this connexion, I deprecate the statement attributed to Major-General  Sir Thomas  Blarney that the need for such precautions does not exist in Australia It is probable that a fortnight ago the people of Honolulu were of the same opinion as  Sir Thomas  Blarney. The Commonwealth Government has done well to provide against air raids. Order must he maintained in the community if Australia is not to be handed over to the Japanese nation. 
I wish to refer briefly to the attempt of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  to discredit the Government and its supporters because they have questioned the wisdom of sending men overseas. In accordance with his usual custom, the honorable senator confined himself to general statements, and did not particularize either as to persons or statements. To say the least, the attitude adopted by the Leader of the Opposition is not in keeping with the position that he occupies in this chamber. I agree that he is entitled to express his views, but I submit that those views should be based on  facts,  rather than on hearsay, assumptions and opinions. 
I do read  Hansard,  and for the information of the honorable gentleman, I shall quote from that publication. On the 19th September, 1939, the late Honorable G. A. Street, who was then Minister for Defence, said- 
The Government of the United Kingdom has itself recognized that at the present juncture the best contribution that Australia can make is to defend itself. 
Great Britain itself is not asking for volunteers at the moment. 
The late  Mr. Hawker,  who was a captain in the Australian Imperial Force in the war of 1914-18 and represented the division of Wakefield, said in the House of Representatives on the 28th April, 1938- 
I cannot imagine any circumstances in which Australia could send overseas an enormous expedition such as was despatched during the lost war. The world position is such that we cannot afford to denude Australia of defence. 
Another victim of a tragic air disaster was  Sir Henry  Gullett, who, while Minister for External Affairs in April, 1938.  said, as reported in  Mansard  of the 29th April of that year - 
Every body must subscribe to the statement made yesterday by the honorable member for Wakefield  (Mr. Hawker)  that one cannot possibly visualize stripping this country of its manhood as was done in the Great War. It may be that wecould send two or three divisions somewhere overseas, but they would be volunteers, and wo could always be certain of getting volunteers. 

 Senator Brand, who is still with us, said in this chamber in October, 1938 - 
It was unnecessary for the Leader of the Labour party  (Mr. Curtin)  to broadcast to the world that no Australian soldier would bo sent to fight overseas. The world situation to-day is quite different from what it was in 1914. There is no likelihood of the formation of another Australian Imperial Force. All our industrial, economic and service defence preparations have one objective - home defence. 
Speaking again in the Senate on the 13th September, 1939,  Senator Brand  said - 
Honorable members should not think for one moment that I am visualizing an expeditionary overseas force. 
I have already said that the despatch of such a force, voluntarily enlisted, is a remote possibility. 
No government would dare denude this country of its virile manhood unless some extraordinary development warranted such action. 
That is so. My purpose in making these quotations is to point out that gentlemen opposed to the Labour party in politics have questioned the wisdom of sending men overseas. I am not reflecting on them, but I refer to their statements because, obviously, the Leader of the Opposition intended his remarks as a reflection on the present Government and its supporters. In his speech on the 13th September, 1939,  Senator Brand  went on to say that Australia's defence problem was different altogether from that of New Zealand or any other dominion. In October, 1938, the then Attorney-General, the Right Honorable W. M, Hughes, said in effect that it was problematical if any overseas expeditionary force would ever (reach its destination. When the honorable member for Capricornia  (Mr. Forde),  who is now Minister for the Army, interjected : " Would the right honorable gentleman have sent Australian troops to a war over Czechoslovakia?"  Mr. Hughes  replied: " I doubt if any Australian troops would ever get to Czechoslovakia ". 

 Mr. V. C. Thompson, a member of the Country party who represented New England in the House of Representatives, said on the 16th June, 1939- 
I know that thousands of people in my electorate and thousands of others firmly believe that a statutory obligation to serve overseas does not exist. 
WhileI am a member of this Parliament, I shall use my endeavours to see that no alteration is made in our defence policy in that respect. The people are quite prepared to support a policy under which the manhood of this country may be compelled to serve for home defence, but would oppose an expeditionary force going to New Guinea, Norfolk Island or anywhere else where the British flag may be raised. 
I agree that circumstances have changed since then, but such changes do not justify the attempt of the Leader of the Opposition to-day to discredit the Government and its supporters on the question of whether men should or should not be sent overseas. When the Australian High Commissioner in London,  Mr. S.  M. Bruce, addressed a meeting of members of this Parliament in Melbourne in February, 1939, he emphasized that the people of Great Britain did not expect Australia to send men overseas, as they believed that Australia might require them for its own defence. At a time of unprecedented crisis, no honorable senator should attempt to make political capital out of the situation, or out of statements made in good faith by other members of Parliament. I think that I have said sufficient to prove that members of political parties opposed to Labour, as well as military authorities who are better qualified to speak on the subject than is the Leader of the Opposition, have questioned the wisdom of sending men away from Australia to fight overseas. 
The Minister for Aircraft Production  (Senator Cameron)  has established his case that there is diversity of opinion as to the wisdom or otherwise of sending Australian troops overseas. Of course there are differences of opinion on that subject. The Minister quoted authorities who asked if we would not denude Australia of defence by sending our men overseas. That would depend to some degree on how many men were sent overseas, but generally speaking we are not denuding the country of defence in this way, because our fighting mcn are defending Australia wherever they may be. Does the Minister think that the members of the first Australian Imperial Force were defending Australia when they were fighting on the Gallipoli Peninsula, in Palestine, Syria, Belgium and France during the last war? They were defending Australia very well.  Senator Amour  seems to have missed completely a very important point when he said that if he had his way he would bring back to Australia the members of the Australian Imperial Force now in Libya. Palestine and Syria. 
The honorable senator also said that we should bring buck to Australia the members of the Royal Australian Air Force who are now in Canada and England in order to defend the women and children of this country. Are they noi defending our women and children overseas by fighting the battles of this country and the Empire overseas? If we proceed along those lines we shall he asking for trouble. The point that  Senator Amour  missed altogether in his suggestion that we should withdraw our troops to our own country is that such a move would leave undefended close to this continent some vital possible bases of enemy action. Their is no need for me to mention them by name; to any student of war strategy they are obvious. One of them at present is not occupied by our people or by our allies, and is a potential danger to Australia. If we are content to sit. down in our own country and wait for the enemy to come to us, allowing him to secure bases close to our shores from which to operate his aircraft, we are asking for trouble. 
T agree with the Minister that, the deadly peril which now faces this country is unprecedented in its history. I was very cheered indeed to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin)  indicate in a broadcast speech last week that stern and ruthless action would be taken in regard to a number of things. Amongst other things, he said that it would bo necessary to freeze supplies of petrol, and he appealed to the people not to use their cars for pleasure purposes.  His  appeal was couched in dignified language, to which one would have thought that anyone with intelligence or sense of decency would have responded. I was appalled and amazed on the very next night when I was returning from an outer suburb of Melbourne to see the large number of private cars parked outside three suburban picture theatres. Outside one theatre at least, 60 cars were lined up; outside another there were at least 60 or 70, and outside a. third well over 100 cars were parked. Just imagine the minds of people who respond in that way to an appeal by the first citizen in the land who is charged with the responsibility of governing this country in these difficult days. The time for appeal has long passed; this is a time for compulsion. In the interests of national security, the people should be told what to do and should be made to do it. Compulsion will have to be resorted to in matters of this kind because voluntary appeals, no matter how well they are couched, will not get results from some people.  It  is necessary for the Government to take stern and ruthless action now. At a time like this, it would ill become me or any one else to indulge in destructive criticism of the Government. I have no intention of doing .so; but I should like to make one or two remarks on some thoughts that have been uppermost in my mind during the last week or two, particularly in regard to the defence of Australia. The anomalous position in which we have placed ourselves all through the years in regard to our Army has disturbed me for many years. Our Army should be one coherent body under one command and enjoying the same conditions of service, but. to-day we have the Australian Imperial Force composed of volunteers for service in Australia or overseas, the Militia and also the compulsory military trainees who have been called up for training under the Defence Act, and, in addition, the Volunteer Defence Corps and other voluntary organizations. It is all-important at this time that we should have a unified Australian Army for the defence of the Commonwealth which the government of thu day could employ where it willed without statutory restriction. I do not suggest that our fighting men should be sent to the four corners of the earth, but that we should have a force ready to hand capable of being sent wherever the strategic situation demands their immediate presence. The Permanent Forces, the Australian Imperial Force, the Militia, the compulsory military trainees and the volunteer reserve should all be under one command and he able to be used without quibble or hesitation. I do not, intend to discuss policy in regard to the different arms of the service because T am only an old "has-been" as far as soldiering is concerned. I am told that, at 59, I am far too old to be of any use, though I think that 1! am still capable of performing a useful service. However, 1 would like to see the Royal Australian Air Force brought, into closer co-operation with our military forces or with whatever troops it is supporting at the moment. Although that is merely a personal opinion, I feel sure thai it is because of the lack of such support that British forces and our own forces .have failed in the past. Some people have suggested that, we should define a limited /.one of defence. Such a /.one would not be fixed by us, but by the enemy. The distinction that exists between the Australian Imperial Force and the Militia is a great, pity. The cheap, disgusting and unfair sneers indulged in at the expense of the boys in the Militia have pained me very much. We should endeavour to wipe out all distinctions of that kind. The members of both forces are rendering noble service in the defence of their country, and in the circumstances that exist to-day, any distinction between them should be swept away. Members of both forces should receive the same pay and enjoy the same conditions. Any suggestion that wo should bring our troops back to Australia is misguided and reveals muddled thinking. If such a doctrine were adopted in its entirety, it would bring nothing but woe and suffering. Malaya and the Pacific islands are as much a part of Australia for defence purposes as are any of our coastal ports, and we should be able, as  Senator Foll  said, without having to enact legislation, to send our men overseas, to the neighbouring Dominion of New Zealand, to 
Timor. or wherever necessary, in order to deny the enemy land bases from which to operate his aircraft. The isolationist's idea of defence assumes that we have no choice but to fight in our own last, ditch. If we accept that doctrine in its entirety we shall fight in our own last ditch, but without, effectual allies, because our Allies with equal justification will adopt the same policy and refuse to come to our aid. 
It is not, propaganda. I am talking from a national point of view about a subject of which I know something, and in the interests of a country which I love and have fought for in two wars. My statement does not contain a scintilla of propaganda. I have never indulged in propaganda, in this chamber. A person who would sink to that level, having regard to the serious position in which our country finds itself to-day, must be low indeed; and any man who would impute such a motive to me must have a pretty rotten and diseased mind. The Government must have power to employ as it. may wish any Australian troops anywhere, be they volunteers or men raised under our universal training law. We must have a coherent army, and not one whose parts are in watertight compartments. To-day, however, some of our soldiers can be sent abroad, whilst others cannot be sent beyond our shores. Thu suggestion that that bar should be removed at the present juncture represents a common sense attitude, and in all sincerity I urge the. Government to give serious and immediate consideration to the proposal. 
Much of what, has been said by honorable senators opposite can very easily be misconstrued and used by our enemies as propaganda against us. 1 emphasize that honorable senators on this side of the chamber are just as desirous as are honorable senators opposite, if not more so, to ensure that Australia is adequately defended.  Senator Sampson  stated that regardless of where Australian troops were fighting whether in Egypt, Europe, Malaya or anywhere else they were defending this country. With that we all agree. However, there is a limit to our capacity to send soldiers abroad, whether it be to Europe or Africa, and, at the same time, adequately protect our shores against an enemy which is now right at our very door. Honorable senators opposite, particularly  Senator Sampson  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay),  declared it was our duty to keep up reinforcements to our troops now in Libya. 
If we could spare such reinforcements my reply is " Yes " ; but to the implication that we should send soldiers overseas regardless of our own defence requirements, I say "No".  Senator Sampson  implied that we in Australia are merely sitting back and waiting for the enemy to come to our shores; that we are adopting an isolationist policy, and shall fight only on our own soil. On what information does the honorable senator base that implication? Apparently, his ears and eyes have been closed to what has been going on in this country. He would be of a different opinion if he were inundated with telephone calls and telegrams, as I have been, since I arrived in Canberra, dealing with the calling up of men from all sections of primary and secondary industry. Such facts prove that the Government is attending effectively and urgently to our defence requirements. The honorable senator, apparently, is not aware of those things. No honorable senator on this side has said that our troops in Malaya and Singapore should not be fully reinforced, or that the Government should not do everything possible to meet the enemy beyond our shores. 
The honorable senator is not aware of the whole of the facts. Honorable senators opposite are doing a greater disservice to this country by providing propaganda for our enemies when they say that this Government will not allow Australian soldiers to be sent beyond our shores, and suggest that we are not prepared to meet our enemy at Singapore and Malaya. That is the kind of statement I condemn when I describe certain remarks made by honorable senators opposite as propaganda. When I interjected to that effect  Senator Sampson  replied that any one who would make such a suggestion must have a very low mind indeed. If the honorable senator did not really mean what he said I readily forgive him; but that is my interpretation of his statement. Certainly our enemies will interpret his remarks to meanthat the Government of this country will not allow our soldiers to meet them beyond our shores. 
The DEPUT Y PRESIDENT  (Senator Brown).  - The honorable senator has not raiseda point of order. 
The Government is fully aware of our present difficulties. No honorable senator on this side has ever suggested that it is not prepared to meet our enemies beyond our shores; but that implication was apparent in practically the whole of the speech made by  Senator Sampson.  Such a speech was entirely wrong. 
It provides propaganda of which our enemies will make the greatest possible use. Goebbels will certainly capitalize it. Honorable senators opposite advocate the setting up of a supreme war council. Such a body already exists. 
Yes; but the Leader of the Opposition is grieved because he is not a member of it. The members of that body are quite capable of dealing with the problems which confront them. If honorable senators opposite will give to the Government only 50 per cent. of the co-operation which we gave to the previous Government when we were in opposition they will have no cause to worry. 
There are one or two features of Japan's attack upon the democracies which we must bear in mind. 
A few years ago we witnessed an unprovoked attack by Japan upon Manchukuo. The Lytton Commission reported upon it; and one distinguished Chinese pundit said at the time that Japan's aggression on that occasion marked the beginning of a world war. How truly he spoke! Shortly afterwards we witnessed the violation of all international relations by Italy, now a partner in the Asis, in its conquest of Abyssinia. It was not hindered by the powers which stood for peace, and, for sinister reasons we are told, no effort was made in that direction by the League of Nations, which was charged with the preservation of international peace. I do -not know whether honorable senators have read Van  Paassen's  remarkable book,  Days of Our Years,  in which he discloses the absolute treachery and lack of morality in international affairs, except on the part of English-speaking nations, and a few of their allies. Can we envisage anything more terrible than the story which this author tells, and which has been confirmed, concerning the proposal by Goering to bomb Paris overnight by an air attack without warning? Let it be said to the credit of some people in Germany that they did not accept such a proposal as part of Germany's policy. But having destroyed all opposition in Germany, the  Fuhrer  interviewed Mussolini at Venice, and put the proposition to him, but it was rejected. Following that interview, Mussolini published in the Italian press a statement which was not nattering to his present ally. But what was the national morality of Italy in that regard? Certainly Italy refused to be a party to the bombing of Paris, but its action on that occasion was the price of Laval's treachery to Great Britain and Abyssinia, and his refusal to give to Britain the use of the French Mediterranean and West African bases to enable us to keep Italy in check. One can realize how Italy was influenced by that refusal. That was the beginning of the present war. Wo have seen the rape of Czechoslovakia and Poland; country after country has become dominated by German force. We have seen valiant peoples crumble under the heel of this European dictator; but now, at last, he is confronted with a power which is likely to begin his overthrow. The British Prime Minister  (Mr. Churchill)  said that in a ttacking Russia Hitler made one of his greatest mistakes; but i3 that so? Had he waited longer, would things have been any better for him? Only too well did he know what was going on in Russia. After the last war Germany built up armed forces in Russia in contravention of the Versailles Treaty. It was in Russia that the great Krupp armament works operated when we could find no trace of arms production in Germany; it was in Russia that the vast Essen interests began to build up the mighty mechanized organization that it is to-day. Russia knew better than the British Secret Service what Germany was doing, and so Russia prepared, and knowing the intensity of Russian preparations, Hitler accelerated Germany's plans. He feared the might of Russia, and so he struck.  Mr. Churchill  said that he struck foolishly, but I think that he struck because he feared the immense preparations that were being carried out by the Russian people. Then, when disaster overtook the German forces in Russia, Hitler and his confederate, Mussolini, dragged into this world conflagration a neighbouring nation of ours - a nation which America stirred into the first activities of civilization; a nation that was happy and contented within itself; a nation which Captain Perry said would come under the heavy barrage of guns unless it came out from its seclusion and traded with the world; a nation which has turned out to be extraordinarily fertile in various regards, and amazingly capable of living under conditions which we are unable to live under; a nation which has done well in commerce, and manufacture; and one which permeated into the highest  civilizations of Europe and joined the League of Nations. Unfortunately, it was also a nation with territorial ambitions. The second point to which I should like to draw the attention of honorable senators is this: Every propaganda technique which the Central European Axis partners pioneered - protests against alleged encirclement, demands for living space, and suggestions of imminent attack by imaginary foes - has been exploited to the 
I'u I i by the Japanese. Japan lias also  copied  another technique which has been used successfully by Germany in every var in which that country has been engaged in recent years - namely, the technique of fighting its battles in other countries. Last week Japan launched out and struck hard while u message from  President  Roosevelt was in transit to the Emperor of Japan. The Japanese attacked fan wise; they struck at America, the British Empire and the Netherlands East Indies, in such a manner as to keep the war out of its own country. Fortunately, for Japan, the war in China had reached such a stage that bases were available for launching these attacks to the south. Vet even in the face of these happeningsome people in this country are inclined to regard with complacency the possibility of fighting of our battles at Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide or Fremantle. Every nation which realizes the devastating effect of war is endeavouring to keep the conflict inside the boundaries of other countries. France was devastated during the last war; Palestine was a battleground and Gallipoli was a battleground - all well away from the German borders. Some of the statements made by  Senator Sampson  to-day seemed to indicate that many of us have lost sight of the imperative necessity to keep war away from our shores. To-day, we who have been living under the sheltering arm of Great Britain are threatened. It was for our safety that Britain established, at tremendous cost, the vast Singapore naval base and fortifications, which, I venture to suggest, will withstand all attacks by Japan. No doubt, having regard to the feelings of the people of this country, Britain despatched its latest battleship,  Prince of Wales  and a formidable battle cruiser, the  Repulse,  to our northern waters. Unfortunately, as is often the case with the British race, risks were taken with those ships, and they were lost. I read with admiration, the statement by Admiral  Sir Tom  Phillips, in regard to the risk he was taking of being bombed by suicide squads of Japanese airmen. On one occasion when I was discussing with a certain gentleman bow useless aeroplanes were against pro- perly  armed and air-escorted battleships, I was told that a battleship would be dealt with by hundreds of aircraft dropping heavy bombs on all the vital parts of the vessel. The gentleman with whom 1 was discussing the matter is a very gallant Australian who has proved himself a capable aviator. He was in charge of the  Centaurus,  the first big flying boat to come to this country. I asked him how many planes used in such a way against a battleship would return, and he said, " None ". I suggested to him he was visualizing suicide squads, and he replied that that was exactly what he ha-l in mind. The Japanese philosophy in regard to after-life makes it easy indeed for them to engage in such hazardous tasks. While they may not be as  great  fighters as the British, French, Dutch and Germans, in the hope of future enchantment they go to their doom with great cheerfulness. I can well understand the apprehension which Admiral  Sir Tom  Phillips felt when he ventured into the waters in which he eventually lost his ship. On, or two honorable senators opposite have become a little hot under the collar about observations made by  Senator Sampson,  but I appeal to them to be tolerant. Those of us who have been in the Senate for a number of years know  Senator Sampson  well. In season and out of season, hp has advocated the need for preparedness in this country. He spoke with all possible sincerity, and even in the mid.?i of our gravest financial worries, hp begged and prayed of the Government of the day not to undo a great deal of the preparatory and educational defence work which had already been accomplished in this country. To-day,  Senator Sampson  spoke with his usual sincerity and earnestness, and I urge honorable senators who may not know him as well as I do to endeavour to understand him. I assure them that his statements to-day were the same as those which he has been making ever since I came into this chamber fifteen or sixteen years ago. They are sound sentiments; he believes that the first line of defence of this country is beyond our shores. Should anything befall the Netherlands East Indies, what hope have we in this country? Our oil supplies have already been considerably reduced, but if our source of supply in the Netherlands East Indies were to he cut off, we should be in a perilous state. 
SenatorCourtice. -We would still fight; we would have to. 
I have no doubt that the honorable senator is a man of courage, but has he ever studied this problem? Has he ever thought that we are merely a nation of 7,000,000 people? Has he ever considered how many men we could actually put into the field here to look after our thousands of miles of coastline? No doubt, we should be able to give a good account of ourselves, but is the honorable senator aware that in the absence of opposing sea power, Japan landed 1,500,000 men in China within three weeks of the launching of the attack upon that country several years ago? Honorable senators must face the facts. I do not wish tobe an alarmist. I believe that with the great American republic with us, and with the valuable support of the Netherlands East Indies, a staunch and capable ally equipped better than most of us imagine, the time has come for us to assert ourselves in the Pacific. Do not let us delude ourselves. Once our chain of defences in the north is broken, and perhaps our neighbouring dominion of New Zealand with its 1,500,000 people is under the domination of Japan, do not let us imagine for a moment that our shores can remain inviolate. Our air Force and our Navy, such as it is, will no doubt give a wonderful account of themselves. Our fighting men are as gallant and our people are as true as their forebears in Great Britain have proved themselves to be, but it is a question of numbers and of where we shall draw our supplies. The Government is perturbed about the petrol restrictions,but this precaution has become necessary in the interest of Australia's defence. I am not criticizing anybody, but the position is so clear that we should not hesitate to fight the enemy on the blue waters of the Pacific as far away from Australia as possible. We should not permit the enemy to obtain a footing in New Zealand, which is as rich throughout the whole length of that dominion as the most fertile parts of Australia. Another possible base which should not be allowed to fall into the hands of an invader is Timor, which is about 300 miles, as the crow flies, from the most northern part of Australia. Imagine that island in the hands of a foe equipped with supplies of oil and petrol from the Netherlands East Indies ! The battle of the Pacific must be fought in the neighbourhood of Australia. I appreciate the full and frank ministerial statement that has been made upon the i n tern ati onal si tua ti on . 
SenatorCourtice. - We have discussed almost everything except those papers. 
The white papers are technical in character, but I commended to honorable senators, as a document worth reading, the despatch transmitted by  President  Roosevelt to the Emperor of Japan. 
On the motion for the adjournment of the Senate yesterday,  Senator Foll  referred to certain newspaper comments regarding the war situation. Surely that, is a matter for the taste of the newspapers themselves, but, in certain evening newspapers published in at least two capital cities, there have been comments designed to give the impression that the information has come from ministerial heads, and that officials in high military positions are shortly to be displaced. 
Yes ; I do not blame the Government, but I contend that such criticism should cease. If the Government considers that certain officers are too old for their jobs it should take appropriate action, but it is subversive of all discipline that rumours of the kind to which I have referred should he published in the press. Such statements make the officials concerned uneasy in their work because they wonder when the axe will fall. If the services of these officials ought to be dispensed with, there will be no criticism from me when they are discharged, but they should not bo left in a state of suspense for weeks. 
I deplore the entry of Japan into the war. I had hoped that that country would have had the good sense not to embark on a venture which I believe will prove to be its undoing. I thought that the relations between Japan and Great Britain during the last war would have deterred that country from taking up arms against its former allies; but, unfortunately, national morality seems to be a thing of the past. I have had no illusions in that regard since 1914, when the solemn agreement between .Germany and Belgium was referred to as a scrap of paper. The action of Japan is only in keeping with what Hitler did after  the  Munich Conference. I hare no doubt that our democratic .allies will stand fast by their bond, for that is the only hope for civilization. What higher duty can a country have than to keep its covenants with its neighbours? The results of this war in blood, tears, famine and disease are such that civilization has been put back centuries. In all sincerity, I say that we should not trust our enemies in future. 
I rise with considerable diffidence to speak at this juncture. We are all aware of the grave danger with which this country is confronted, and I hope that I shall not say anything that will result in an accusation that I am attempting to make political capital out of the situation. Whilst I hold strong views regarding the efficacy of a national government, I recognize that every person in this country, whether in or out of Parliament, is most anxious to do all in his power to safeguard the integrity and freedom of Australia. I listened with interest to the statement read by the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley),  and to the statement presented in the House of Representatives by the Minister for External Affairs  (Dr. Evatt),  to whom credit is due for the masterly way in which he surveyed the international situation. Although the Minister for External Affairs recognized that Australia was in great danger, he 'held out great hope for us, because we have as an ally that powerful nation, the United States of America. I draw attention to the following paragraph in 'his statement: - 
T take leave to doubt whether the people of this country sufficiently appreciate the resources and latent power of the United States of America. They are immeasurable. All those resources will now bc devoted by a united nation to strike down for ever the might of the aggressors. It is wrong to lose con fidence in the ultimate outcome because of the severe shocks which have, been received at the beginning. 
Having spent some time in the United States of America and Canada 25 or 30 years ago, I make bold to say that the Americans are not afraid to tackle any job. They have demonstrated their ability in the industrial field, and have undertaken work in that direction which other nations were not prepared to do. Whilst we deplore the terrible catastrophe that has overtaken the United States of America at Pearl Harbour, we must realize that that particular reverse has roused the American nation to such a degree that to-day it is as united as Australia in its determination to do everything possible to overcome the aggressors. When a country like the United States of America takes on a warlike task, we may rest assured that all the energies of its people and the full industrial capacity of the country will be put -into the work of producing the means essential to victory. In the meantime, however, there are terrible weeks and months ahead of Australia, and we must not forget the presence of a great danger. 
The political representatives of the Labour movement are determined to do everything possible to safeguard this country. To those who may not see eye to eye with us politically, I point out that the policy of Labour is to support our troops overseas. When the Menzies Government was in power, it received cordial support in that direction from, the Opposition. Since the policy of the Labour party is to furnish reinforcements for our troops overseas, it is wrong to accuse that party or the present Government of acting contrary to its own policy It has not done so yet, and it will not do so. The present Labour Government will not do anything inimical to the interests of our men in Malaya; it will not forget Australia's obligations to them. I have mixed a good deal with the men in the various camps, and I know that they are only too anxious to assist their comrades. They are ready to go to Malaya, or wherever they are needed. Recently, at a picture show I saw photographs and heard the voices of some of our men in Darwin. They said that they did not want this and that in the way of comforts ; all that they wanted was to get at the enemy. Do honorable senators think that a Labour government will ignore the advice of those who control the naval, military and air forces of the Commonwealth? The policy of the Australian Labour party is in opposition to conscription for service overseas.  No  one denies that. At the present time we have conscription for home service; every man between the ages of 18 and 60 years can be called upon for the defence of Australia. Under the powers vested in it, the Government is calling up thousands of men for home defence. Some men have already been trained, and others will be trained. The Labour Government has taken, and is taking, all necessary steps to safeguard Australia, and at the same time thousands of men are flocking to the colours and are willing to go wherever they may be sent. There is no legal ob.iect.ion to sending to M'alaya any man who volunteers to go overseas. I put it to honorable senators, without bitterness or enmity of any kind, that at the present time there is no need for the demand that the existing law should be altered, because should the call be made, thousands of good Australians will be ready to go to Malaya. There is no crisis in that regard at the present time, and there is not likely to be any crisis because of the need to safeguard Australia against attacks by the Japanese. At least, that is the position as I see it. There is no need for those who favour overseas conscription to throw a spanner into the works. 
I agree with  Senator Foll  and others that industry should be placed at the service of the Commonwealth Government. We have seen great changes economically in Germany, Russia and Italy, and we have read of similar changes in Japan. All of those changes have been towards unified control in tie interests of the State. Throughout the world there is a tendency towards the centralization of the control of the instruments of production, and of both civil and military forces, to the end that the best results shall be achieved from the employment of the labour of the community. The present Government must know, as must also its predecessors, of the antagonisms within the economic and industrial machine because of conflicting vested interests. My attention was drawn to this matter recently by a man in Brisbane, who told me that because of certain antagonisms between two rival companies, one of them was precluded from putting forward its best efforts in the production of materials of war.  Senator Arthur  has also told me of similar cases in Sydney. These problems have been completely overcome in Germany, Russia and Italy, because the governments of those countries will not allow petty antagonisms to keep machinery idle. Because of the danger confronting Australia, I am convinced that the time has arrived for the Government to take complete control of industry in the interests of the nation. Every man capable of producing munitions, or in any way assisting in the prosecution of the war, must be employed to his fullest capacity in connexion with the war effort. I say nothing against men associated with vested interests in this country, because they are the product of their environment; but. like many of our military leaders, they have forgotten the lessons of the past, and consequently they are jeopardizing the future. To-day, conditions are such that it is essential that the whole of the powers of the country shall be ordered. The time is ripe for the complete control of industry by the Government to the end that every man and woman shall be fully employed in prosecuting the war. 
I realize that profit is part and parcel of the present capitalist system, and that a revolution may be needed to eliminate it entirely from industry. If, in order to maintain the maximum production, it is necessary that the opportunity to make profits shall exist, then, so far as I am concerned, let men make profits if they want to do so. It may be that the incentive of profits is essential to the maximum production; but whether profits are made or not, there must be the fullest and most complete economic organization possible. I have heard on good authority that thousands of labour hours have been lost because men in some munitions establishments which operate on the cost-plus basis are not allowed to work. That such a state of alf airs is possible indicates that there is something wrong. Recently, a. man visited me at my home and told me that several nien in one establishment were thinking of going on strike because they had been told to " hang around " and they would be given a job. They were being paid for doing nothing. The reason was that their employer was being paid on the basis of the cost of production plus a. certain percentage of profit. I know that the Minister for Munitions  (Mr.  Makin) and others have done splendid work in increasing the production of munitions, and eliminating the worst features of the cost-plus system. .1. am not, criticizing the previous Government for the cost-plus system ; but it is wrong that men should feel impelled to go on strike in order to draw attention to the fact, that they are not allowed to do their best for the country's war effort. I appeal to honorable senators to refrain from political recrimination. The time has come when we should forget the past in a realization of the magnitude of the task confronting us. 1 arn under no illusions as to the strength of our enemies. On a number of occasions I have been criticized for saying that in respect of discipline, ma nam v ring, gunpower and the things that constitute an efficient navy, Japan has one of the finest navies in the world. Naval strategists who are competent to judge, class the Japanese Navy as Al. The people of the world have been misled by magazine articles and newspaper writers as to the strength of Japan. They have been misled also by military and naval authorities who should have known better. The world has been told that although Japan has a large navy and possesses secret weapons, its naval guns are so big that they would wreck a ship if brought into action. We were told also that Japan had only a thirdrate air force. The world was led to believe that at, heights exceeding a few thousand feet certain physical disabilities, which, are common to most Japanese airmen, would affect their capacity to render effective service. Because of cer- tain alleged physical disabilities, such as the inability to close one eye, Japanese soldiers were said to be poor marksmen. All of these things have been said of the nation with which we are now at war; but the fact remains that the Japanese air force has performed deeds of destruction which its Axis partners have been unable to do. Members of the Royal Australian Air Force, who are among the finest air fighters in the world, have been struck with the effectiveness of the Japanese air force in destroying the  Prince of Wales  and the  Repulse.,  We cannot afford to underrate the Japanese, and it is a pity that we are only now realizing that fact. However, it is useless) for us to repine. The situation confronting us is that the Japanese are making progress in Malaya, and are approaching Singapore by land. It was once thought that Singapore could bc attacked only from the sea; but. if the Japanese troops take airfield after airfield in Malaya, our position will become precarious. No one in Australia will do anything that will result in our men in Malaya being left in danger if it is possible to help them. This Labour Government is pledged to carry out a policy of attacking the aggressors in such a way as to get the best, possible results from the men at its command. I ask honorable senators opposite to give the members of the Government credit, for being as loyal as themselves, to he assured that it will carry out its policy of reinforcing the boys overseas, and that it will do its best to organize Australia to the end that this country shall remain free. 
.- There is a good deal of force in some of the remarks made by  Senator Brown,  particularly his suggestion that, in this hour of grave danger to our country, we should forget some of the happenings of the past. All honorable senators agree that at no time in its history has Australia been in greater peril. In these circumstances, I would be the last to indulge in recriminations or to create difficulties for the Government which is charged with the responsibility of carrying on the affairs of this country. Two suggestions, however, made by the Leader of the Opposition during this debate deserve the reconsideration of the Government in the light of circumstances which exist to-day. J.n this atmosphere of grave peril, would not it be a good thing for the people of this community to know that the test brains of this Parliament were devoted to the cause of carrying on the Government of the nation? 
I shall not deal with silly and facetious remarks like that. It is nonsense to say that all the brains in this Parliament are to be found within the ranks either of the Ministry or of the Opposition. I do not believe it can be seriously suggested that a ministry wholly drawn from either the parties in opposition or the party behind the Government represents the best that this country can produce to deal with the dangerous situation that confronts us. It would be well if the Ministry would look at the problem divorced from the history that has been associated with it and from all the tags that have been attached to it. We should consider seriously whether there is not Some means by which members of all parties in this Parliament can be drawn together in a responsible governing body charged with full executive responsibility to put into effect the war policy of this country. I urge the Leader of the Senate and his party to give further consideration to this matter. It is easy enough to say that we have an Advisory War Council, at the meetings of which representatives of the Government and of the Opposition meet and consider problems of war policy. It is true that they do so, but their decisions are not final. Under the present arrangements some of the best men in this Parliament,  nien  who have had a long experience of administration, and particularly of war administration, arc excluded from the responsibility of making important Executive decisions. I do not believe that we have exhausted all the possibilities and I urge the Government not to delay in this matter any longer. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer briefly is the suggestion that the Government should seek the approval of the Parliament for an amendment of the National Security Act to enable it, if it so desires, to send our forces to any territory adjacent to Australia if such a course seems desirable in the interests of our safety. Here again, I suggest that it is desirable that we should look at this problem in the light of conditions which exist to-day. I know that there is a long history about conscription and there is strong opposition in this community - or there has been in the past - to conscripting men for what we describe as overseas service. The people have objected to compelling men to fight against their will on the battlefields of Europe. But that is not the situation we are dealing with today. We arc concerned with the question of sending men,, perhaps to some territory outside Australia it is true, but for the purposes of directly preventing an enemy from approaching our shores. This question is not one which directly involves a decision as to whether or not it is desirable to send men into overseas countries. Frankly, that is a question which .1. am not competent to answer ; the answer to it must depend, in a very large measure, upon the advice which the Government receives from its competent naval and military advisers. What I am concerned about is that the Government should not, find itself in a position where it may be hampered in giving effect to the advice of its military advisers. 
 Does the honorable senator think that we have demonstrated that we have been afraid to take power where it was needed? 
 The honorable senator can manufacture them. 
 Senator Brown  concluded his speech by appealing to honorable senators on this side of the chamber to recognize that his colleagues are quite as sincere as we are in dealing with the defence of this country. I can only ask honorable senators opposite to reciprocate by giving us credit for the same degree of sincerity in that respect, particularly in relation to the remarks made by my colleagues in this debate. Our criticism has been offered solely with a view to assisting the Government. 
Judging by interjections made by honorable senators opposite when  Senator Spicer  was speaking one would not think that that was the case. When we adjourned only three weeks ago, we anticipated that Parliament would remain in recess until the New Year, but in the meantime the trend of the war has altered entirely. It is now at our back door. Circumstances alter cases ; and what might have been quite all right two or three weeks ago is not quite all right to-day. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  has been criticized very severely by supporters of the Government. He urged the formation of a national government, certain amendments of the National Security Act, and the appointment of a supreme war council. All of those proposals are made solely with the object of assisting the Government in the present crisis. We know that the Government does not favour the first two proposals. Ministers have assured us that if necessary reinforcements can be sent to our troops who are now fighting abroad. I submit that the Government does not possess power to do that; and our object in urging the Government to amend the National Security . Act is to give it that power. We do not suggest that the Government should order men to serve outside Australia. We feel that the Government should have that power simply because our present situation is so serious. Honorable senators opposite say that the Government can obtain that power at any time. That is nonsense. The Government cannot obtain that power unless Parliament gives it to it. Is it thought that we can hold up the war while Parliament is called together for that purpose? 
No; the Government is failing itself because it does not now possess power to send soldiers abroad. It could not send one man out of Australia unless he consented to go. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.Yes. 
The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  would lead us to believe that it is simply a matter of collecting men and putting them on a boat and sending them abroad. All of our soldiers must be properly trained. It is sheer murder to send men away untrained. 
I am afraid so. 
-I doubt that statement very much ; but even in that case the men would be trained overseas. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition that the Government should have the power to send troops abroad whenever and wherever it thinks fit, and that it should be given that power before Parliament adjourns. All of us are aware of Japan's treacherous attack. At the very moment when Japanese emissaries were in the United States of America discussing terms with the representatives of that country Japan launched its attack in the Pacific. Let us learn our lesson from those events. I should imagine that even though the Government is not prepared to agree to the Opposition's proposals with respect to the formation of a national government and amendments of the National Security Act in the directions we have indicated, it should at least agree to appoint a supreme war council, and for that purpose to utilize the best brains available in this Parliament.  Senator A.  J. McLachlan mentioned the Japanese base in Portuguese Timor. We should be well advised to adopt some of the tactics of our enemies. We should immediately take possession of the island of Timor, because if we allow the Japanese to establish a base on that island, not 300 miles from our shores, the future will be very uncomfortable indeed for us. A vital feature of the proposed supreme war council would he that it would possess executive authority to direct our war operations. Consequently it cannot be argued that the Advisory War Council is just as effective. The discussions of the Advisory War Council may or may not influence the Government. At any rate that body does not actually exercise control over our war operations. We confidently expect assistance from the United States of America. If such assistance is offered to us we shall certainly accept it. That being so, surely we cannot hesitate at this juncture to stretch out a helping hand to that country. 

 Senator JAMES McLACHLAN.No; I want a war Cabinet composed of the best brains in this Parliament and possessing authority to act, not merely to sit around a table and talk. 
To a great degree, yes. 
I am anxious to help the Government in every possible way. I appeal to it to adopt the three proposals submitted by the Leader of the Opposition. At present in an extreme emergency it will be obliged to call Parliament together in order to obtain authority to send troops abroad. This Parliament is now prepared to give it that power. 
.- I feel sure that there is not a man or woman in Australia who does not realize the gravity of our present situation. Some years ago, I read the opinion of a high military authority that the Japanese soldier was the most desperate in the world. 'I recall the siege of Port Arthur. European military experts declared that Port Arthur was impregnable, yet the Japanese, advancing over thousands of their own dead, took that outpost by assault. lt was then the opinion that no European nation would have attempted to take such a position. However, under a treaty Japan was subsequently cheated out of the territory which it won. Only last week the Japanese Premier, General Tojo, said that in the 2,600 years of Japan's history it had never been defeated. Some weeks ago I read that 30 troop transports, convoyed by a small number of warships, had left Japan for Indo-China. That brought to my mind an incident which occurred many years ago in Great Britain. The late Kaiser having claimed to possess the greatest army in the world, decided also to have the greatest navy. When the first units of his navy were completed he paid a courtesy visit to Great Britain to see King Edward VII. At that time Lord Fisher was First Lord of the Admiralty, and he attended the reception given to the German visitors. It is reported that a few days later Lord Fisher called upon King Edward VII. and said " Your Majesty, the Kaiser has said that he intends to have a fleet at least equal to ours. No doubt when he accomplishes that aim ho will find some excuse to attack us. As a precautionary measure I suggest that we should sail to Germany and sink his ships while they are in the harbour ". Of course, such action was not countenanced, but I feel sure that had Lord Fisher been in charge of the  British  navy at this juncture the 30 transports mentioned would not have been permitted to reach Indo-China. The British ships would have sailed in and sunk them. Under the agreement with Indo-China Japan was permitted to have only 30,000 troops in that country, but now wc learn that they have over three times that number in that country. The 
Japanese soldiers are good fighters because they believe that it is a groat honour to die for their country, and that such action will ensure the fullest happiness in the hereafter. All possible steps should be taken to ensure that the British troops in Malaya and other territories threatened by Japan have all the equipment and aircraft support that they require. I am sure that honorable senators on both sides of the chamber realize the extreme danger of the situation, and that they will do all they possibly can to assist Australia's war effort. 
I express my appreciation of the Government's action in summoning Parliament to meet in this critical period in our history. I believe that in any democratic country, it is wise that the national legislature should be called together in a crisis such as this, so that the Government can give to the Parliament, and through it to the people, a clear statement of the position. Unfortunately, too frequently during this war, and no doubt through previous wars ".ve have been misled and misinformed, perhaps not deliberately, but on occasions, in a very serious manner, and I think that it is proper that the people generally, as well as members of Parliament, should have placed before them a clear and definite official statement of the position. The Minister for External Affairs  (Dr. Evatt)  and the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  are to be commended for the statement presented to Parliament on international affairs. It is comprehensive, clear, and, so far as I know, accurate. Exception has been taken to one or two comments which have been made, but I do not wish to traverse the entire ground at this stage. That has been done adequately in the House of Representatives. I consider that as a general statement the speech of the Minister for External Affairs does give to the people of this country a clear outline of the critical position that we are now facing. As a member of the previous Government, charged with the administration of one of the most important war departments, I have a very real appreciation of the difficulties, responsibilities, and the heavy burdens which are being shouldered  by the  Ministers of the present Government. I assure them that anything I may say to-day is being said with the object, not of offering destructive criticism, but rather helpful advice. 1 have followed very closely the announcements that have been made from time to time by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Curtin),  and by other Service Ministers, in regard to considerations that have occupied the time of the Government, and decisions that have been made. For instance, important statements have been made in relation to decisions which have been rendered necessary by the altered circumstances in which we find ourselves to-day. Also, we have had a number of statements announcing decisions relating to the organization of the various civil services within this country such as internal transport. We all recognize that that matter is of supreme importance in the present circumstances. Statements have been made also in connexion with coastal seaborne traffic, proposals for the organization of industry, and the investigations that are now being made in connexion with the more intensive organization, and better use of our man-power. All these matters are of immense importance. They are features of our war administration which undoubtedly cause a great deal of hard thinking on the part of the responsible Ministers, and no doubt the decisions in relation to them have been made after due consideration of all information available to the Government. 

 Silting suspended from 6.15 to 8p.m. 

On several matters that appear to me to be of great importance, we have not yet had much information from the Government.I shall first refer to the man-power position. Every honorable senator will agree that one of the urgent needs at present is a maximum production of munitions and other war equipment. A board has been set up to investigate the man-power position, and no doubt its report will be considered by the Government.I hope that the Government will take the earliest opportunity, not only to consider the report, but also to implement a policy that will result in considerably speeding up the production of munitions. It is estimated that in the present programme for providing munitions and other service requirements, about 240,000 workers will be required in the next twelve months. Since almost all workers are already fully employed, it is obvious that, in order to meet this demand, it will be necessary to take into account the labour available for the purpose. A great deal of the work now being done by male labour could be well undertaken by female labour. As to the degree to which this would relieve the position, I have no accurate figures, but there are probably 60,000 females now unemployed who could be placed in useful occupations. The balance would have to be obtained, first, from the natural increase, and, secondly, by the diversion of labour from non-essential civil industries to essential war industries. This transfer cannot be effected in a short time, and I urge upon the Government the necessity for making an immediate start to deal with the problem. 
Another matter of almost equal importance with regard to our war effort was mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley)  in his budget speech. I refer to the problem of rationing. A good deal of time has been available to the Government to consider that matter, and to make some progress in the handling of it, but I understand that a final decision has not been reached. The position with respect to consumption goods is becoming more acute every day, and I trust that the Government will take prompt steps to complete the institution of civil rationing. A decision has been reached with regard to petrol, one of the most important war commodities. We are told that there is to be a 20 per cent. reduction of the present allowance of petrol to civilians. I urge the Ministry to impose that reduction immediately. No administrative difficulty would prevent that being done. The holders of licences could be informed that the rations already received for December, and in some eases for January also, would have to last them for a longer period-. 
I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator McLeay)  and other honorable senators in connexion with the proposal that has come from the opposition side of the chamber for an amendment of the National Security Act. I shall not traverse the ground that has been well covered during the debate. I was pleased to hearhonorable senators on the Government side of the chamber support a statement made by the Prime Minister . (Mr.Curtin) that the present Ministry will reinforce all of our troops overseas. I have no doubt as to the honesty of the Government in its intentions in that direction, but one can well conceive of circumstances arising in which, if the Government desired to give effect to its undertaking, it might be necessary to send overseas troops at present in the Militia Forces. Of course, that is a matter for decision by the Government, acting on the advice of it? chiefs of staff. It would be a tragedy which the Government could not contemplate, if a body of militia troops were at a certain point and the necessary transport were available to take them to another locality in the Pacific, and if that could not be done by reason of failure to amend the National : Security Act. 
As the act now stands, the Government could not, by regulation, do what I suggest it might wish to do. If the Government has already considered this matter the Opposition asks it to reconsider it, and to seek the opinion of its legal advisers. I am convinced that the proper course to follow is that suggested by the Opposition. 
This is not a time for disputes between political parties, or for attempts to take party advantages regarding matters concerning the national interests. The Prime Minister has asked for, and the Opposition is willing to give to the utmost of its ability, its co-operation and assistance. Therefore, the Prime Minister should reciprocate the goodwill that the Opposition is prepared to extend to the Government I was appalled when a statement issued by the Prime Minister over the air and also published in the press, announcing the loss of a British battleship and a battle cruiser near to Malaya, contained the rider that the disaster vindicated fully his advocacy of a powerful air force. 
The Opposition has not raised that matter. If there are to be recriminations of that kind, implying that the Opposition has made political capital out of defence matters, it will reply to such suggestions. The Opposition not only supported the policy of increasing and strengthening the air force, but also took action, when in office, to do so. Before this country was at war, the previous Government assisted in the setting up of an aeroplane factory which is now rendering yeoman service in producing planes for training and other purposes which are of immense value at this critical time. 
Shortly before the conclusion of the sitting, we heard an interjection by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  suggesting that the Government had spent its time cleaning up a mess left by the previous Administration. If that remark indicates the kind of goodwill and co-operation to be extended by the Government to the Opposition, I am afraid that the Minister will cut a sorry figure in public estimation. It is unnecessary for me to remind honorable senators of the legacy that the present Government took over from the previous Ministry. It is not for me to measure the war effort of this country under the previous Administration. That can be done by people who are well qualified to express an opinion on that matter. I merely call the attention of honorable senators to the fact that everybody who has come to this country and has examined our war effort has stated in no uncertain terms that it is at least equal to that of any other part of the Empire. When we hear statements like that made by the Leader of the Senate, we are entitled to consider that the Government is not sincere in asking the Opposition to co-operate with it at this time of crisis. I did not want to raise this subject, but unless the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Senate refrain from party politics the people of Australia will be their . judges. 
SenatorCourtice. - The honorable senator is spoiling a good speech. 
We on this side of the chamber are wholeheartedly behind the Government in its war effort. Those of us who have held office during the war realize the responsibilities and burdens which Ministers have to bear. We are prepared to offer to the Government our full co-operation in the difficult task that lies ahead, but we ask, in return, that Ministers shall drop party politics and devote their attention to the security of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.17 to 8.37 p.m. 

.- I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The present grave emergency in the Pacific will result in an increase of expenditure over the budget estimate of such magnitude that it has been necessary for the Government to bring down special measures to increase its revenues in order to provide in part for the increased expenditure. This bill gives effect to the first part of the Government's proposals, namely, the imposition of a special war tax on incomes of individuals. The second part of the Government's proposal is an increase of the ordinary company rate of tax which will be dealt with in a later bill. On the basis of the budget introduced in October it was estimated that £139,000,000 would have to be borrowed in order to bridge the gap between revenue and expenditure for the current financial year. About £39,000,000 of that amount has already been borrowed. The increased expenditure which will be incurred owing to the war in the Pacific will very much increase the gap between the budget estimate of revenue and the total expenditure that will now have to be met. The proposals of the Government regarding increased taxes will produce additional revenue in a full assessment year of about £24,000,000 of which this measure will produce about £20,000,000. 
As however, the tax proposed by this measure will apply for only the second half of the current assessment year it will yield about £10,000,000 during the period from the 1st January to the 30th June, 1942. It is expected that £8,000,000 of that amount will actually be collected during that half year. The war tax will be imposed on all income and earnings over £3 a week, that is, £156 per annum. Collections will begin on the 1st January, 1942, out of current wages and salaries. The tax will commence at6d. in the £1 and increase' gradually to1s. in the £1, which rate applies to all war tax income in excess of £300 per annum. However, the Government decreed that it would not be equitable toimpose a war tax upon the pay of memberso f the fighting forces in the lowerranks. Accordingly the liability to war tax will not apply to a member of the forces whose pay does not exceed £200. In ascertaining this £200 the allowances paid by the Government to the dependants of the member will not be included. The tax will be assessed on the amount of income remaining - called war tax income - after current federal income tax has been deducted. The income to be assessed is the actual income without the statutory exemption or deductions of a concessional nature. The most important of the deductions which are allowed for ordinary income tax purposes, but which will not be allowed for war tax purposes, are those for dependants, medical and funeral expenses, life assurance, superannuation and State income tax. As I have said however, a deduction will be allowed for federal income tax. Although no deduction from income will be allowed for dependants there will be an annual rebate of tax of £2 12s. in respect of a wife and each dependent child. The reason for making the allowance in this way is to ensure that am an on a low salary will gain as much benefit from the rebate as will a man. on a high salary. I emphasize the fact that the rebate of tax is given for all dependent children under sixteen years of age. The effect of the proposals is that a married man on the basic wage with two dependent children will receive a rebate approximately equal to the tax which he would otherwise have to pay, so that this class of family will not be called upon to pay any war tax. 
Two tables have been distributed to honorable senators' showing the effect of the war tax upon incomes in different grades, and upon a  taxpayer  without dependants, a taxpayer with a wife and no children, a taxp'ayer with a wife and one child and a taxpayer with a wife and two children. ' It 'was necessary to bring in some simple form of tax to obtain increased revenue in order to enable the legislation to be immediately brought into operation and to commence to yield revenue within a few weeks. The  Government  proposes to review the proposals during the next few months, and, if necessary, to modify them in order to fit them harmoniously into the general financial structure. Any such modification will not apply to the current financial year, but will be implemented for the financial year 1942-1943. 
The Opposition has not had an opportunity to consider the provisions of this bill very closely. The details of the Government's proposals were set. out, clearly in this morning's press. As I understand that the Government is most anxious that the measure be passed to-night I do not propose to make a second-reading speech on it. Honorable senators may do so if they wish, or they may prefer to discuss it when it reaches the committee stage. 
.- It is not ray intention to delay the passage of this .bill ; but it is only reasonable that honorable senators on this side of the chamber should take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that the proposals contained in this measure are even more drastic than those made by the Fadden Government. Although honorable senators opposite condemned the provision in the Fadden budget for a sound scheme of compulsory savings, in the form of post-war credits, they support this measure which proposes to levy heavy taxation on those in the lowest ranges of income. No one knows better than I do the difficulties that, confront the Government in raising the necessary revenues with which to prosecute the war, and therefore I shall not oppose this measure; but the macro fact that it has become necessary so soon after the presentation of the budget to increase  taxes  to meet our ever expanding expenditure must bring home to the Government the force of the criticism which we levelled at the budget when it was presented during the last sittings of the Parliament. I remember on that occasion the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  took me to task because of criticism which I had levelled at the Government's financial proposals. Instead of bringing in a measure such as this it would have been far better had the Government adopted the system of post-war credits advocated by its predecessor. Under that system the people were asked to accept as their contribution to the war effort a system of  deferred  payment of compulsory loans, on somewhat parallel lines to the system of deferred pay granted to men serving in the armed forces. It would have provided a nest egg for many people at a time when they would probably need it most. We recognize that expenditure cannot be continued on the present basis when conditions become normal. Therefore, the public's attention should be called to the fact that the financial policy of the Fadden and Menzies Governments is now being adopted by this Government, whose supporters previously criticized that policy so severely. This fact shows that the financial policy of those Governments was sound. I am wondering how  Senator Darcey  and other honorable senators opposite feel about this change. They said that once Labour assumed office they would show us how we could get money for nothing. 
At any rate the honorable senator promised to give us something for nothing. 
The honorable senator repeatedly quoted paragraph 504 of the report of the Hoya! Commission on Monetary and Banking Systems. Now that he and his colleagues occupy the Government benches and a Government is in office which he said would be prepared to accept his Father Christmas proposals. 
I note that it has not yet done so, but on the contrary now proposes to do what we on this side always contended it would be obliged to do. I recall  Senator Brown  telling us how our financial system would be changed, and how our national credit would be expanded immediately Labour was given a chance to govern. I  well remember the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Collings)  himself waxing hot on the mere suggestion t hat any one earning £150 a year should be obliged to pay a direct tax at all. However, these are times when we must be realistic. Therefore, we can afford to be a little generous to the Government. At t he same time, I am justified in drawing public attention to the fact that the financial policy outlined by the Menzies and Fadden Governments must have been sound when this Government now proposes to adopt a similar policy. 
To me it seems very strange that this Government should bring down a measure of this kind within a few weeks of the defeat of the Fadden Government on a similar issue. Apparently honorable senators opposite now realize that money must be raised from this source. This change of attitude is probably a case of coming events casting their shadows before them. This afternoon, some honorable senators debated conscription for military service abroad. This measure is evidence thai the first line of the Government's defence of the voluntary system in the financial sphere has collapsed. The Treasurer  (Mr. Chifley),  in introducing his budget, emphasized the fact that by exempting the lower incomes, recipients of those incomes would be enabled to subscribe to Government funds by way of purchase of war savings certificates. 
That may be so. Nevertheless this measure is evidence that the Government is changing its policy. I sincerely hope it, will realize that it. cannot, under the voluntary system, obtain the revenue it requires. 
.- The Government has introduced a new procedure for making known the measures which it intends to bring before this Parliament. The first indication which honorable senators obtained that this bill was to be introduced was in reports in the press. Out of courtesy to members of this chamber and of the House of Representatives, such announcements should first he made in this Parliament. Previous governments followed that practice, and 
I sincerely hope that in future this Government will first make announcements of this kind, not in the press, but in Parliament. 
I have no doubt that honorable senators will agree to the measure. All of us realize that the bill represents a remarkable change of policy on the part of the Government. At the same time, there has been a dramatic change in the war situation. We realize that it is the Government's responsibility to raise the money required for war expenditure. I should like information on one point. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane),  in his secondreading speech, stated that the Government decided that it would not be equitable to impose the tax on incomes of members of the fighting forces in the lower ranks. Does that mean that this tax is to apply to members of the Australian. Imperial Force serving abroad'? 
I am glad to have that assurance. 
Question resolved in the 'affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Imposition of war tax). 
. -Was the Minister correct when he informed  Senator Johnston  that this fax will not apply to members of the forces at all ? The Minister stated in his second-reading speech that incomes of members of the forces under £200 per annum would be exempt. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 to 7 agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
I should like to be clear on clause 4. What is meant by "Defence Force"? Replying to  Senator Johnston,  the Minister said that the tax would not apply to members of the Australian Imperial Force. However, the bill distinctly provides that the tax shall be imposed in the case of a member of the Defence Force having a war tax income which includes pay and allowances earned by him as a member of that force, and which exceeds £200. Is not a member of the Australian Imperial Force a member of the Defence Force ? 
Questionresolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I have already explained the Government's proposals generally for the raising of an additional £12,000,000 of revenue during the current financial year. This bill will give effect to the second part of those proposals, namely, the increase of the normal company rate of tax from 3s. in the £1, as is now provided, to 4s. in the £1. The additional1s. will, it is estimated, increase revenue from this source for a full assessment year by £4.500,000, but it will produce only £4,000,000 during the balance of the current financial year. With this addition, the estimated total yield from the ordinary income tax imposed on companies for a full assessment year is £18,300,000. Of this total, it is expected that £16,800,000 will be collected before the 30th June, 1942. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  to inform me whether the Government has yet given effect to its promise to appoint a special committee to examine taxation anomalies and the incidence of taxation, particularly as affecting private companies. If the committee has not yet been appointed, will the Minister be in a position to announce the personnel before this sitting concludes? 
The proposed increase of company tax by 331/3 per cent., and the other impositions that we discussed a few weeks ago. will place many private companies in a hopeless position. The amending legislation which was passed in November contained an extraordinary provision that fixed the " ceiling " of combined Federal and State taxes at 18s. in the £1. The example which the Minister cited on that occasion was that if federal tax were 14?. in the £1 and State tax 7s. in the £1, the Commonwealth would forgo 2s. and hope and pray that the States would refund1s. to the taxpayer. I ask the Minister whether the States have been approached to agree to that proposal. If they have not, does the Government propose to discuss the subject at the conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers next Friday? I warn the Government that this legislation will compel many private companies to go out of business. 
 in reply  - Although the special committee to review taxation anomalies has not yet been appointed, the matter is under consideration, and in due course the personnel will he announced. The proposal that the States should refund1s. in the £1 to taxpayers whose assessments exceed 18s. in the £1 has been submitted to the State Treasurers, hut no finality has been reached. 
I do not know. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Commencement). 
SenatorJAMES McLACHLAN (South Australia) [9.5]. - I ask the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Senator Keane)  to give me an assurance that the Senate will be represented upon the special committee which will inquire into taxation anomalies. 
I shall make the necessary representations to the Government. I may add that I share the view expressed by the honorable senator, that on all such committees the Senate should have representation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 3 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.  - I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill is necessary for the purpose of providing for a war tax income, upon which the war tax introduced to the Senate in another bill will be levied. The bill introduces a new part to the principal act - Part IIIb - War Tax - which provides the method of ascertaining war tax income. The tax will be imposed upon actual income ascertained before allowing the statutory exemption and certain deductions of a concessional nature, including State income tax. A short statement of the deductions that are not to be allowed has already been given in my speech upon the bill imposing the rates of war tax, but a deduction will be allowed for Commonwealth income tax. The Government recognizes that to-day Commonwealth income tax absorbs so much of the income of the individual that the liability for war tax should be determined only after taking into account the Commonwealth tax that is payable on that income. If the income thus ascertained does not exceed £156 - or £200 in the case of a member of the Defence Forces - there will be no liability for war tax. If the income exceeds the' amounts stated, tax is levied upon the total income. In those cases where the income exceeds £156 only by a small amount, there is a saving provision in the taxing Act that the tax shall not be greater than one half of the income in excess of £156, or £200, as the case may be. 
The basis of the liability is assessable income for ordinary income tax purposes. Income which is exempt for ordinary income tax purposes is also exempt for war tax purposes. Among the concessional deductions which it is not proposed to allow in ascertaining war tax income is the deduction for dependants which is allowed under the Income Tax Assessment Act. However, the bill recognizes that a taxpayer is entitled to a concession in this connexion and provides, in lieu thereof, for an annual rebate of tax amounting to £2 12s. for each dependant. This fixed amount applies to all taxpayers irrespective of the amount of income. The dependants in respect of whom the rebate will be allowed consist of wife, dependent mother, and all dependent children under the age of sixteen years. As the tax will be in operation for only one-half of the present financial year, one-half only of this rebate will be allowable. 
I have already referred to the fact that in the case of members of the Forces, the liability for tax does not commence until the pay of the member exceeds ?200 per annum. In arriving at this amount the Government does not propose to include the allowances paid to the wife for herself and dependent children, but it will, of course, include any allotment of pay made to those dependants by the member himself. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Reference has been made in several newspapers to writs issued against me by the Commonwealth Taxation Department and the State Taxation Department of Western Australia. The statements published have been very brief, and I should like to read to honorable senators a letter sent by my solicitor, under my direct instructions, to the  West Australian  newspaper, giving details of the claims that have not been published in the eastern States. The letter reads - 
I desire to make a personal explanation. For the first time in my political career an honorable senator attempted this afternoon to put into my mouth words that I did not utter.  Senator Aylett  alleged that I had said that this Government would not allow Australian troops to go outside Australia. That is quite incorrect and quite untrue; I did not use those words. 
I draw the attention of honorable senators to a question which I asked to-day  upon notice.  To me the answer is most unsatisfactory. Unfortunately, statements are frequently made in the press which are quite untruthful. There was a flagrant case this week which has  been referred to already in this chamber and in the House of Representatives. The questions which I asked read - 
Will the Government take action under the National Security Regulations to ensure that sufficient space and time are made available by press and radio, respectively, to all sections of thought on political and financial problems? 
Will the Government license the press a nd radio with a view to their informing the public of the truth on all political and financial matters? 
Will the Government also take power to suspendthe newspaper or radio concerned and to cancel its licence in the event of the truthupon such matters being withheld or distorted ? 
The answer reads -  1, 2 and 3. The Government already possesses the power to compel newspapers and broadcasting stations to observe the requirements of national security. It is not proposed to extend this power in the manner suggested by the honorable senator. 
My  opinion is that the power possessed by the Government is not exerted at all. On frequent occasions I have seen reference made in the press to political issues, but usually only one side of the question is given. Also, persons broadcasting frequently distort my political opinions, especially in regard to finance, and no opportunity is afforded to broadcast the truth. In view of the statements made in a Sydney newspaper  a  few days ago strongly criticizing certain service chiefs, it is time the Government exercised its powers to suppress such attacks. I do not think that sufficient supervision is exercised over radio broadcasts and the press, and in this case, the comment published about men in high positions in our armed forces was very unfair. Such attacks will cause the people to lose confidence in the men controlling our war services. I repeat that the answer given to my question is far from satisfactory. 
.- I direct the attention of the Government to the confusion which apparently exists in this country in regard to action which should be taken in the event of air raids. Although we all sincerely hope that air raids will notoccur, we must be prepared for them. I read in a newspaper this morning that when certain air raid sirens sounded inadvertently recently, a considerable amount of confusion was caused because apparently the people were not fully acquainted with the best steps to take in the event of a raid. Last week I discussed this subject for a few minutes with the High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in Australia,  Sir Ronald  Cross, who, of course, was in London during some of the heaviest air bombardments on that city.  Sir Ronald  said that very often many lives could be saved and property protected if people observed certain simple rules. It occurred to me that the Minister for Information  (Senator Ashley)  might be able to make arrangements for the A and B class stations to broadcast at specified periods a few simple rules and general information in regard to air raids. I realize that air raid precautions are matters for the States, but statements appear continually in the press which are both confusing and contradictory. It would be of great assistance if people knew what to do in an emergency, and many lives might be' preserved and property saved if the people had a general knowledge of how to protect themselves and how to deal with incendiary bombs. People write to the press giving unreliable information. 
I did not use the actual words which  Senator Sampson  accused me of uttering, but, in view of the honorable senator's speech, one could arrive at no other conclusion. I did say that the honorable senator accused the Labour party of adopting an isolationist policy. . . However, I accept the apology which he has just made for his earlier speech. 
With reference to the questions asked by  Senator Darcey  earlier to-day, I wish to state that I agree entirely with the answer given. I do not think it advisable that any more restrictions should be placed on the press than are necessary. The Department of Information is concerned only with the security of the nation. It is our task to prevent the dissemination of any information which may be of value to the enemy. 
With regard to the matter raised by  Senator Foll,  I think that it would only lead to confusion if I were to instruct the press of this country how they could assist by giving advice in regard to air raids. However, I draw the honorable senator's attention to the fact that the Department of Information has inaugurated a radio session to give general information to the public at 12.30, 1.30 and 7.10p.m. daily. This session wall be continued after Parliament has adjourned. The object is to contradict the many rumours which are so damaging to public morale. At a later date, when Parliament is not in session, instructions may be given to supply information along the lines suggested by  Senator Foll.  It is not the intention of the department to issue any instructions to the press. 
I have no intention of giving instructions to the press as to what advice should be given to the people, but I shall give consideration to the question of having simple authoritative suggestions broadcast. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
